ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Requesting presence check! 50 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 51. The following members of the government will take part in today's Question Time: Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus Prime Minister, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. We have nine questions registered. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for us to be able to go through more questions, there may be only two questions on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U2	Let's get started. Please, Mr Vasilyev, a question for the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U3	Thank you. Good minister! The Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has set as one of the objectives a reduction in renewable energy charges for investments already made and this is claimed to result in lower electricity prices for final consumers. The price could be estimated to fall by 1.3% to the final consumer. At the same time, the good minister has a plan to continue paying subsidies to the Narva Power Plants of Eesti Energia, which, according to the law, should end this year. Narva Power Plants received 39% of all renewable energy subsidies in the first quarter. Has the Minister informed the government how this plan could be reflected in the price paid by end-users?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U4	Thank you for that question. Instead, I would like to start by having a very constructive and peaceful debate on renewable energy and energy in general at the initiative of the Committee on Economic Affairs in the Riigikogu yesterday. I think it is, in itself, very grateful and commendable that Parliament has taken such a role and that all the parties involved have gathered together at one table. This gave different parties the opportunity to express their views. In fact, there was also the question you asked during yesterday's debate on the table. Indeed, it is true that if we look at the disbursements of renewable energy subsidies both in 2011 and in the first quarter of 2012, the lion's share of these subsidies has gone to the Narva Power Plants of Eesti Energia, where oil shale and timber are burned together. Of course, the question arises as to whether such practices are the most sensible, in particular whether it is reasonable that consumers still have to pay for such practices. I guess that's the point of deciding whether or not there is a reason to prolong this situation. According to the current law, the payment of additional support for the burning of wood in oil shale kilns should end as from 1 January 2013, and I think this is a reasonable solution. In itself, there is no need for any legislative amendment to make sure that the burning of wood in oil shale furnaces is no longer paid for, a change in the regulation of the Minister for Economic Affairs would be sufficient and would indeed lead to a reduction in electricity bills by a few percent. So this opportunity is completely there. I think it's a reasonable opportunity and it could be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U5	Please, Mr Vasilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U6	Thank you. I will ask the Economic Commission about yesterday's sitting. The Minister of the Environment showed a slide there, where a 150-million share capital increase in Eesti Energia was recorded as one oil shale energy grant. At the same time, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, has answered my question in the Riigikogu on 21 September 2011 that this is not state aid at all, but an extension of the share capital. I ask you, as the minister currently in the position of Head of Government, whether this issue has been discussed in the government and whether the government knows whether this support has been notified to the European Commission? If so, why, if not, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U7	Thank you. The Government can rely on an analysis carried out by the Minister responsible for this area and on the view that this expansion of the share capital does not constitute State aid. I believe that this conclusion has been reached as a result of a comprehensive analysis and that this is the case. This is the position of the government based on the position taken by the Minister of Economic Affairs. But perhaps it is worth thinking for a moment why we are even talking about renewable energy subsidies or why it is important at all. This objective, why these subsidies are needed at all, has been a little lost in the debate and debate. I myself believe that, of course, it would be most ideal if there were no subsidies at all and it would be a purely market-based operation. But the situation is that our taxpayers themselves are likely to support this very large-scale fossil and polluting power generation without knowing it, and have been doing so for years. Recently, the opinion or analysis of the Sustainable Estonia Institute found that the tax payers' treatment of fossil fuel and polluting power generation is limited to about 800 million euros a year. That's a lot of money. Since the government, and I think that not only the government, but that is the thing in which all the political forces are in agreement, has set out to diversify Estonia's energy portfolio and make it less burdensome for consumers, that is why we cannot create an upside-down situation in which fossil fuel and polluting electricity production is supported, but cleaner and ultimately less burdensome electricity production for consumers would be in an unequal situation. That is why we are talking about any subsidies at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U8	Please, Mr Vasilyev, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U9	As a result of the last response, I wonder whether the government has discussed that renewable energy subsidies are currently reflected in the electricity bill. People see how much they are paying to support renewable energy, while consumers do not really have an overview of the support for the fossil fuels you mentioned, which are being made with taxpayers' money. Has the government discussed that it would be fair, from the point of view of both the market and consumers and taxpayers, to inform people about the subsidies paid on oil shale and why not calculate how much this represents on average in the electricity bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U10	Thank you. There has been no such separate debate in the government. But yes, I too consider it important to have information or awareness of how many ways the taxpayer has actually supported fossil and polluting power generation through the budget over the years. It is certainly important that this information reaches a little more consumer awareness. In addition to the direct annual financial support or subsidies coming from the budget, fossil fuels are still subject to a number of very burdensome costs, which may be somewhat difficult to write on a monthly electricity bill. As the Committee on Economic Affairs mentioned yesterday, over 80% of the waste produced in Estonia is directly related to oil shale. Since this is perhaps a little hard to grasp, which is 80%, one example to illustrate. An ordinary family that consumes electricity quite sustainably produces about half a tonne of waste every month, or within a year, one family's consumption of oil shale electricity generates six tonnes of waste, half of which is hazardous waste. If you happen to live in an apartment building, you can calculate and visualize each one of them, imagine how much ash mountain and hazardous waste are generated each year for one apartment building alone. This is why we consider it important that we move from polluting power generation to less expensive electricity generation for both the environment and the consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning, we have a lot of registered issues, therefore two on-the-spot issues. Let's start with my colleague Lembit from Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U12	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Yesterday, at the expanded session of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, you gave a pretty good overview of the positions of the Ministry of the Environment regarding renewable energy in the near future, today and in the future. From my point of view and from the perspective of our Alliance of Democrats, from the day of the opening of the Estonian electricity market, i.e. 1 January next year, exempting consumers from the renewable energy tax, renewable energy production being compensated by the State's money for the sale of CO2?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U13	Thank you. In the case of electricity generation and the electricity portfolio at all, I fully agree with your view that, above all, the price to the consumer and the environment is important, i.e. that electricity is produced at the lowest possible cost for both the consumer and the Estonian environment. As far as the specific proposal is concerned, I think that the sooner we draw a very clear line and say that the renewable energy support system introduced in 2007 for new and additional renewable electricity generation capacities will no longer be extended, that, in the case of new and additional capacities, we will switch to a much less burdensome system for consumers, i.e. the sooner this decision comes, the better. Whether it should be 1 January 2013 or it is possible to do so earlier, it will depend again on the time when the Ministry responsible, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, will submit a draft, as well as on how quickly Parliament is interested and able to deal with this specific draft. But, yeah, I think the sooner this line gets in, the sooner this decision becomes a law, the better. To be honest, this decision could have been made some time ago when we look at how subsidies have been paid over the last few years, the amount of subsidies paid through the electricity bills of consumers significantly increased. And indeed, as you mentioned, CO2 quota revenue could be a very serious source of investment support so that consumers no longer have to bear this burden. I agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U14	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Borodich, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There are two important aspects to me in the system of renewable energy subsidies. The first aspect concerns the investments that the Estonian state has made in this sector. When we talk about reducing subsidies, what will happen to investments already made? If we reduce them afterwards, I think the Republic of Estonia will be hit as a rule of law, that would be cheating on the whole sector and would undermine the credibility of the whole state. What is your position on this issue? Question two. That is the correct remark that we should in future encourage renewable energy production and restrict polluting production. One of its alternatives would be to introduce a resource tax, for example, where the oil shale industry would support the coming of renewable energy, or green energy. What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U16	One half of the debate certainly concerns the way we behave as a state with those investors and companies who have made very substantial investments in the Estonian economy due to the current legislative framework, has been based on the law established by the Riigikogu and its framework. The question is whether and how this framework can be changed afterwards. It is clear that Estonia cannot afford to behave like a country which we certainly do not set an example for ourselves and where the rules are subsequently changed from the position of power. This could be a very strong blow to an already fragile investment environment. This is not the way Estonia can behave. Therefore, at government level, we have agreed with our good government partner that only if the Minister for Economic Affairs is able to negotiate with market participants can we reach a common understanding and an agreement acceptable to market participants make this change. If such an agreement cannot be reached, the country cannot change the rules afterwards by force. This would simply not be appropriate for the Estonian state, which has clearly chosen a democratic path. Your second part of the question concerned the introduction of a resource tax. In order to resource itself oil shale already has a mining fee. The question is that if we look at the losses in oil shale mining, for example, and we see that these losses have not decreased, but rather are still very large and even increasing, it is probably justified to review the resource tax from the very angle of forcing this very valuable mineral resource to be used as efficiently as possible. However, the introduction of an additional or new tax may not be justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U17	Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Kadri Samson, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U19	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! If you would meet your Ukrainian colleague in the near future, would you talk to him about the situation that has developed in Ukraine in connection with the arrest and imprisonment of opposition leader Julija Tymoshenko? What is Estonia's view of how this will affect Ukraine's reputation as a rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U20	Thank you for your question. If there were such an option, I do not rule out the issue that has been dealt with much in the Estonian public and which concerns one of Ukraine's top politicians and the measures that have been taken against him in this country. Ukraine is not part of the European Union; it is certainly not appropriate to compare Ukraine with the Member States of the European Union. The developments of the Ukrainian country in recent years have caused many concern and have also been under discussion in this house, but I must say that the proposal for a meeting with Ukrainian colleagues has not come and there is no invitation to visit Ukraine at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U21	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U22	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! But let's say you meet some of the colleagues of the western state who inherit the situation in Estonia, where the headquarters of the largest opposition party in Estonia is searched for a fictitious reason. By imaginary reason, I mean that the prosecutor gave the reason for the search, because allegedly two middle parties had exercised influence in organising two fireworks. Today it has become clear that fireworks on the Krusenstern ship on the Tallinn Sea Days were made according to a procurement won not by businessman Jüri Luik, but by Viljandi's company, which is not related to this businessman. The Fireworks at the Võru folklore festival was organized by the Võru County Government and the Võru County Elder is part of your party to correct me if I am wrong. How would you justify finding a way to the opposition party's office for a fictional reason, taking with them business documents and computers? And no more trying to justify it because the case was made up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U23	Thank you for your question. I believe that the Republic of Estonia is a rule of law, as the title of your question says. It is the law enforcement authorities, or the prosecutor's office, that are the investigative authorities that make decisions on the opening of criminal proceedings. They also have an obligation under the Code of Criminal Procedure to do so where there is information referring to a criminal offence, where law enforcement authorities consider that there is an incentive and a basis, to act independently and independently. As we know, there is also the law of the prosecutor's office in Estonia on the basis of which the prosecutor's office acts independently and independently, there is the law on security agencies, there is the penal code, there is the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thus, such a decision is made by law enforcement authorities and only by them. No one can say in advance, much less at political level, whether or not to make one or the other decision. This is certainly unthinkable in the Republic of Estonia. Consequently, the decisions that law enforcement authorities themselves have taken are also to justify them themselves, to argue with them themselves. If you now refer to a case concerning one criminal case, then in fact the Supreme Court is the only one competent in Estonia to interpret the laws. As a result of the Supreme Court's decision, the composition of the influence trade crime was first described, which, as we know, was adopted in 2006, when the Central Party was still in the government coalition. The fact that there are problems with this crime is clear today, it needs to be reviewed and certainly clarified in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U24	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U25	Thank you, Minister of the Interior. I'm talking about another case now. Last August, businessman Indrek Raudne made a 500-euro donation to the IRL and businessman Indrek Raudse was given the opportunity to attend a round table on residence permits in the Ministry. Two ministers from the IRL took action to increase the quota for residence permits in the business of businessman Indrek Raudse. When the criminal information came up, the IRL office was not searched, even though a 500-euro donation had been made. You said that in the rule of law, two parties should be treated the same way. Was the reason why the IRL office was not searched in December that the IRL did not have an office at the time and was operating in the Riigikogu building, or that the previous Secretary-General of the IRL happened to be the Minister of the Interior who controls the hood, or that there was some other reason why in a similar case two parties were treated in such a different way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U26	Thank you very much for the question. As I said, my clear belief is that Estonia is the rule of law. In the rule of law, decisions are taken by law enforcement authorities in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, and this is a clear rule whose violation is unthinkable. If you and your party consider that a violation of this principle is conceivable, that is your position and opinion. I don't think you can do that. The decision on whether or not criminal proceedings are initiated shall be taken by the law enforcement authorities or the prosecutor's office and shall be immediately notified to the investigating authority. If this decision is taken by investigative authorities, then according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the prosecutor's office will be informed immediately, who will be in charge of criminal proceedings in Estonia as a whole since 2004. Consequently, I can very easily sum up: in the Republic of Estonia, decisions on criminal proceedings are not made on the basis of the characteristics that people answer, whether they belong to an organisation or not, etc. Decisions will still be taken on the basis of the internal conviction of the competent authorities, whether there is a motive and basis for the crime and whether they believe there are clear legal grounds to initiate criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U27	Now two issues registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Kalev Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You have said in public that turning out every street lamp in Tallinn can add one more crime. In the morning, the main message was that nine rescue commandos will be closed in Estonia at 8:00 today. For the ministry, this is a "festive moment" because he has requested it. The question, according to your logic, is how many deaths do you think will be added?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U29	Thank you for your question. May 16th is the day when the restructuring is complete. There will be 72 rescue commandos in Estonia. As I have said many times from this remote control, these changes and reorganisations have been made in order to increase Estonia's ability to save, above all, the ability and availability of full service to considerably more people in Estonia than has been the case so far. We can also say numerically: more than 120,000 Estonian people will receive life rescue services in more than 1 to 15 minutes after the reorganisation of the rescue commandos. I think this is a noticeable increase in the ability to save across Estonia, and a great many Estonian people will win from it. A large number of rescue commandos are getting stronger and more men on duty. As you know, there must be a minimum of three men on the watch so that, in the event of fire, drowning and also in the event of an accident, the most important thing can be done to save a person's life. If there are fewer than three people on guard, it is not possible to save a person's life because it is not allowed by the rules, and by doing so we would endanger the lives of the saviors themselves. Therefore, the changes to be implemented in 2012 will, in my opinion, clearly benefit Estonia's security. We will, of course, also do our utmost in prevention to reduce fire deaths, road deaths and drowning deaths in Estonia. But it is clear that these chicks cannot be counted overnight, but they still need years of effort to catch up with our good examples in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U30	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U31	Thank you, good manager. Minister of the Interior! A Swedish journalist recently told me passionately about the traditions and beliefs of Western democracy, according to which attacks on opposition parties and their politicians are particularly painful about the involvement of police structures. According to the Western Democratic tradition, in such cases, a particularly thorough ex-ante examination of the circumstances is required, however, to determine whether there are compelling reasons for pursuing or starting a criminal case. If such an attack were to prove unjustified afterwards, it would seriously compromise both the country's political system and its law enforcement system. The journalist also asked whether it was true that our esteemed Minister for the Interior and our attorney general had set some kind of quota on how many criminal cases law enforcement authorities had to initiate against opposition parties and their members. Since I have no information, I promised to ask the Minister for the Interior, which I am doing now. Dear Minister for the Interior, what can I say to the good Swedish journalists who are waiting for an answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U32	Thank you for your question. It is quite clear that the steps taken by law enforcement authorities must be particularly well thought out in terms of the attention of the public, and certainly also of the political system. If such steps are taken, of course they must also be argued and explained to the public. This can and must be done by the law enforcement authorities themselves, and I very much hope that they will continue to do so, just as they have so far tried to explain things to the public. However, we need to understand that the explanations of law enforcement bodies to the public, for example following the opening of criminal proceedings, are limited during criminal proceedings. It is limited to the own interests of criminal proceedings, it is limited to the fact that information cannot be provided in full because procedural procedures are still ongoing. This will certainly put law enforcement authorities in an unequal position compared to those who are often quite quick and quite intensely criticizing the steps taken by law enforcement authorities to increase transparency and reduce crime in Estonia. So there is certainly a need for understanding about what law enforcement authorities are doing and, on the other hand, a very clear need for our insistence and a comprehensive justification of our steps. As regards the second part of your question, speculation, I can very simply say that there is no basis for these speculations or rumours. I have to admit, for the first time today, I hear rumors like the ones you were talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U33	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U34	Next question. Please, Mr Võsa, a question for the Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Justice! Parents of children born before 2010 are currently able to formalise changes in the custody of county government. From 1 July, this can only be done in court. Now, if one day this law will be implemented as foreseen by the Ministry of Justice, and parents will only have to deal with custody by court, then it will cause a great deal of confusion. The Minister of Regional Affairs has also pointed out the problem and proposed to amend the family law so that in the next five years the parents can also formalise the changes in custody in the county government. It is known that access to the courts is costly and that the workload of the courts is high. Don't you think this legislative amendment makes no sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U36	Thank you. I think you wanted to ask if this amendment would make sense. I have personally met the Minister for Regional Affairs on this subject and asked that, if there is an additional analysis to justify these arguments, we would be happy to examine this analysis. The Minister for Regional Affairs has promised to send his opinions. I'd like to correct some factual points of departure. Firstly, before 2010, there was no custody institute as such. In the past, however, the child was assigned to one parent in court, so in essence, there has been no major change in this regard. If you ask whether parents can exercise joint custody in the future only through court, I say, of course, no. If parents split up, what still happens in Estonia and everywhere else in the world, and they split up in such a way that they respect each other and put children's interests first, then it is actually quite possible to exercise this joint custody right without a trial. If the parents are married and are still married but are unable, for example, to agree on which school child to put, then they still need to settle it through court. So, in fact, the new family law gives children more protection. Nothing changes much for those who put children's interests first and are able to settle fundamental questions among themselves. I do think that this subject is perhaps a little over-enhanced, and perhaps there is an unjustified fear.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U37	Please, Mr Võsa, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U38	Thank you. Since you have now started to talk about the analyses and facts yourself, regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler has made several proposals to amend this law to you, but at first you decisively rejected it. For what reason did you object to this at first? Did you use any analyses or facts that you relied on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U39	In general, changing existing laws can still be based on the fact that there has been some very topical problem. To give an example of my own Minister for Justice, I can say that this year, or for a little longer, the Ministry of Justice has deviated a little from the principles of good lawmaking only once, and this is the very principle of guardianship that we have discussed with you in the Committee on Legal Affairs and also in this Chamber. In other cases, unfortunately, if we would like to have it rather late, because all of this will come into force on 1 July, quickly and unexpectedly, I would like to see these rather compelling and analysed reasons. We discussed this with the Minister for Regional Affairs and he promised to send material that his claims were true. I dare say today, on the basis of common sense, that for those parents who put the child's interests first and are able to reach an agreement among themselves on all matters, nothing really changes. They don't have to go to court, they can exercise custody completely freely. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U40	Please, my colleague Peter Võsa, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U41	Thank you. Sharing custody of children is such a complex and unpleasant process, not only for children but also for children's parents. As Minister of Justice, do you have any information on how many applications to change custody rights are received in Estonia each year and whether they will be settled peacefully or if there are major litigations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U42	Thank you. I don't think I'm gonna say these figures, but I'm sure I can give them in writing later so you'll have the exact facts. But while you're talking about this division, I also dare to point out a nuance that the new family law prioritises. It's the same child protection. In the new law there is such a nuance, I quote freely, from memory, that a child aged 7 to 14, if his or her level of development so permits, can also be asked which parent he or she wishes to stay with and how to exercise custody. In the case of a child over 14 years of age, the will of the child is quite decisive. So in my opinion, the new family law still gives the child greater protection and gives the court the opportunity to take better account of it. Precise figures, I'll say it again, I can give it later in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U43	And a locally registered issue. Please, Mr Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Justice! After all, children's care and their sense of security are all the better guaranteed jobs for their parents. Now I'm asking from the perspective of Ida-Viru County. The private sector has recently invested quite well in this region and, of course, the state is also making efforts there. What, though, are the opportunities that the state's administrative structures could bring in regionally to support the development of Ida-Viru County? I know that you have supported certain initiatives at the study session, but perhaps it would deserve to be introduced a little more closely.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U45	Thank you. I certainly agree with the introduction that children have the better future and the better childhood the better their parents do. In general, it's quite logical, there's not much discovery here. But specifically speaking of Ida-Virumaa, the government actually has an Ida-Virumaa action programme that you know very well about as an ambassador elected to the Riigikogu and a person hurting the heart over this area. We are trying to implement this action programme with real steps. After all, the Ministry of Justice took such a step in the spring swallow that we recently decided to move the first central authority to Ida-Virumaa, which is the transfer of the management of the prisons. This institution alone does not change everything in Ida-Virumaa, but if other steps follow this step, then it will certainly result in a better presence of the Estonian state and will create such potential that Ida-Virumaa can develop equally with other parts of Estonia. To mention the initiatives, there are, of course, various views among ministers, but I have supported my colleague's Minister of the Interior in that the Academy of Home Affairs could also be in Ida-Virumaa. In this respect, the government has not yet reached a project that it can support in a consensual way, as the government does, but I hope that this will be achieved. So thanks for the question and let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U46	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U47	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! On April 14, s. a several provisions of the Penal Code, which penalise human trafficking, came into force. Penalties for acts involving human trafficking are difficult, reaching 15 years. In doing so, the legislator has expressed its very resolute view of this type of crime. My question is: what are the actions of one of the implementers of this law, or the Ministry of the Interior, in the short term, so that this relatively hidden form of crime also gets a dignified blow from the law enforcement authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U49	Thank you for your question. The fight against trafficking in human beings has been a priority for law enforcement authorities since the Government of the Republic first defined anti-crime priorities in 2004. It can be said that in the last eight years, the Police and Border Guard Board has had a special approach to the subject and has achieved quite a degree of competence. According to field experts, in the last eight years, particularly as regards the mediation of prostitution, which is part of human trafficking, it has become even more precise and clear in the Penal Code on 14 April, and more resolutely, the 80% reduction in this crime in Estonia has changed. I think that the Estonian public has also felt that these problems, which may have been seriously under public attention in the early 21st century, have been greatly reduced. I think one comma of another has been achieved. It is quite clear that trafficking in human beings is very common in Europe and Estonia has taken this problem seriously. In the Police and Border Guard Board, this will continue to be a priority issue, will be carried out by a separate unit in the Northern Prefecture, where there is competence and capacity in this field, and will be implemented as well as those sections of the Penal Code that have been added since April this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U50	Please, Mr Anvelt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! It was a pleasure to hear that the fight against trafficking in human beings was a priority. That is why I ask: are you also aware of how many police officers in the Estonian police department deal with this priority and where? You said the Prefecture of the North is being dealt with, but how many people are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U52	Thank you for your question. There is a unit in the Prefecture of the North, and other prefectures deal with it on a case-by-case basis. When it comes to organised crime, it is clear that it has to do with investigations and prosecutors in the fight against organised crime. Trafficking in human beings is known to be much more precise in the amendments made to § 133 of the Penal Code and involves a wide range of activities: the person is forced to do something by taking liberty, violence, fraud, threatening harm, be it prostitution, begging, committing a crime, etc. So depending on what each particular case is, there are detectives and prosecutors who focus on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U53	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U54	Thank you. Mr. Minister! For information, too, if you are not aware that three people in the Estonian police are involved. At least to me, it does not seem to be a priority line of action and this type of crime requires the initiative of the police. These cases don't come through the door like bicycle theft. I therefore ask whether you think that three police officers are sufficient on this line of work, and if not, what should the future direction of the police look like for this priority? Does this area have to be dealt with by the Northern Prefecture or the Central Criminal Police?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U55	Thank you for your question. Just as for a number of other types of crime, it has been considered here whether it would be reasonable to build the issue of trafficking in human beings in the Central Criminal Police, which was re-established on 1 January 2012, or whether it would continue to be the responsibility of the prefectures. It's under analysis right now. As far as three persons are concerned, these are specialised investigators who only deal with crimes related to trafficking in human beings. It is certainly also an analysis of whether such investigators would need more, whether they would be needed in the unit of the central criminal police. I can give you a comparison of the proceeds of crime, which has also been a significant priority for years. Since 2006, there are all legislative options for dealing with the proceeds of crime. There were also three persons specialising in the proceeds of crime until autumn 2011. The question is whether this is enough or not. This is certainly insufficient in the case of proceeds from crime, as the anti-criminal measure can be applied to a wide range of types of crime. Today, more than ten people are working on the proceeds of crime, and at the beginning of this year a single strong unit was formed in the Central Criminal Police and will continue to do so. Whether there is a need for more specialised investigators involved in human trafficking will become clear this year. It will also be clear whether it is necessary to create a central office in the Central Criminal Police or to strengthen the prefectures on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U56	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U57	Thank you. Dear Minister, Tilting a minor to participate in an erotic show has been declared a criminal offence under the Penal Code on 14 May. On our television show, "Estonia is looking for a supermodel," where the children are half-naked. Why don't the police intervene? Why is the law not being enforced?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U58	Thank you for your question. I am a little more specific: these amendments to the Penal Code were adopted on 14 April 2012. As far as your specific question about the programme is concerned, it is the law enforcement authorities who have to decide whether or not this is an indication of a possible criminal offence. I am absolutely sure that law enforcement authorities will carry out this analysis and shape the position.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U59	Please, last question registered on the spot, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U60	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'd like to continue with the youth issue, but this time with the alcohol problem. Yesterday, I attended a youth seminar on alcohol, access to it for young people and, most of all, the purchase of alcohol. It was acknowledged that while under 18 years of age we do not have to receive or consume alcohol, in fact 90% of 13-year-olds have already tried it. When the teacher went out and asked if there were any problems with access to alcohol, 99 cases were thought to be no problem. On the one hand, minors are limited to buying alcohol, and on the other hand, alcohol advertisements are displayed at the time when family movies are still on TV. Are anti-alcohol measures planned in the near future, or what steps is the Ministry of the Interior planning?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U61	Ladies and gentlemen, we stick to the questions that are within the framework of the fundamental issue. I believe that alcohol and human trafficking may be involved, but this is a slightly different matter. But if the Minister wishes to respond, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U62	If Mrs. Speaker says yes, I'll give you a brief answer. Thank you for your question. The issue that you have raised is serious, and the law enforcement police are dealing with it in a number of respects. If you have noticed, there will also be a separate prevention campaign in Estonia this spring, I would say, an awareness-raising or information campaign. Alcohol can often reach minors through adults, because minors cannot, in many cases, I hope, in most of Estonia's retail chains, or none of them, access to alcohol, but it can be bought through an "intermediary," often known as an adult. This information and prevention campaign is aimed precisely at saying very clearly to an adult: one such step, i.e. to mediate alcohol to a minor, is ruining lives and is a very serious crime. There is no one approach here that we can prevent anything by ban alone, but there is a great deal to do with the responsibility and responsibility of the adult Estonian citizens and residents themselves. If they take such a step, if it goes through that they buy alcohol and pass it on to a minor, then it is a very serious crime and I hope that all the people of Estonia will understand it. Yes, the answer is very clear: it is dealt with by the law enforcement police, it is dealt with through prevention and information projects throughout the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I very much hope that there will also be progress here, but it will certainly not come again overnight or lightly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U63	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U64	The next question is from my colleague, Yana Toom, to Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Actually, Mrs. Pentus, I'm asking you as Prime Minister. Foreign Minister Urmas Paet, speaking in this Chamber on 21 February with a presentation on foreign policy, made it very clear that the border agreement with Russia is no priority for Estonia, as long as the border works de facto. His presentation was 12 pages long and relations with Russia were devoted to exactly 11 lines. Another of your party partners, Kristiina Ojuland, is even more categorical, and I quote: 'Although Russia is an important trading partner for us, we cannot close our eyes on serious human rights violations and continue our traditional relations with the Kremlin regime. ' Second quote: 'Because our message about the need to hold new elections in Russia has come to deaf ears, more serious steps must be taken and the action of the Russian Parliamentary Cooperation Commission must be stopped until democratic elections are held in Russia. ' However, we do know that only a few days ago Marko Mihkelson...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U66	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U67	... went to melt Estonia's relations with Russia. Which of the three politicians, according to the government, represents Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U68	Thank you for that question. Which one of the three represents? When we talk about relations between Estonia and Russia, these relations are such workable and practical. I do not think there is any reason to overdramatise the situation; rather, it is worth looking at the factual side of the relations between the two countries. For example, if we look at trade or tourism, their characteristics, then trade and tourism between Estonia and Russia have increased considerably. Speaking of the number of tourists and comparing 2010 and 2011, the increase last year was 43%. I think all these figures confirm once again that at this practical level, relations are really good. On the Estonian side, of course, we are very interested in working contacts. We are interested in improving relations, and there is no reason to believe that the leaders of our neighbouring country would take a different view of this issue. So, for our part, we want a positive development and we hope that the leaders of our neighbouring country will want the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U69	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U70	Thank you, Madam President. You see, Madam Minister, while you and I were still in kindergarten or school, there was a politician like Mikhail Gorbachev who was very in favour of pluralism, but he also owns this aforism: 'Pluralism in one head is schizophrenia. ' In this case, I still didn't understand. I gave you an example of three politicians who are saying completely controversial things, and it turns out that the'soft and more constructive' direction is somewhere lower in this hierarchy. Is it true that our higher politicians continue to be aggressive towards Russia, but on a parliamentary level we can squeeze hands and say something like that? At the same time, we do not change anything in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U71	Thank you for your question. It is somewhat incomprehensible to me what you mean by developing a mild relationship and what you think this direction should be. Once again, Estonia is interested in the positive development of relations. We have, in particular, recently focused precisely on promoting a contractual base. Developments in this area have been such that, for example, between the two countries entered into force recently, the signature of the implementation protocol for readmission has been obtained, and recent meetings of the Ministers of Culture of the two countries took place. I believe that further development, promotion of the contractual base is in the interests of both countries. Since this gentle approach you advocated or, say, soft policy is somewhat incomprehensible to me in its substance, I can assure you that the Estonian side is interested in such business, practical positive developments. And once again, there is no reason to believe that this interest among the leaders of our neighbouring country would be different.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U72	Please, Mr Toom, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U73	Thank you, Madam President. I ask you plainly: do you share the view of your party partner, Kristiina Ojuland, on Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U74	It is very difficult to answer if your question is so general. The Estonian state is interested in practical, business and positive developments in its relations with Russia. It is not known to me that we would have any disagreements on this matter. I believe that Parliament also believes that positive developments, especially with regard to the contractual basis, are, in any case, desirable in relations between Estonia and Russia. This last question of yours is otherwise very difficult to answer because it was so general. This has been the policy and line that the Estonian state as a whole has been dealing with its neighbours over the years, and in any case we will continue this line.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U75	We will now proceed with the issues registered on the ground. Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U76	Thank you very much. In the light of this issue, I would like to clarify once again. When our ambassador, who is now leaving, met us in Moscow, Simmu Tiik, he said that in the last three years our trade with Russia has increased by 57% every year, with exports being positive for us. I'm going to ask you very simply. I don't understand why two things are being confused here. If relations are to be developed at parliamentary level, then it is perfectly logical for one Parliament to react. But as regards intergovernmental relations, as well as the border agreement, which is very well illustrated by the same export and trade figures, I ask you directly: has the Estonian Minister for Foreign Affairs made a request to meet with the Russian Foreign Minister to show his good will?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U77	Thank you. Estonia is, of course, fully open at the official level for such meetings. The recent news that Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs already has meetings with both the Federation Council and the Duma Foreign Affairs delegation in June is a very good sign. As regards such meetings, the Estonian side has been open and is still open. Positive developments in relations between the two countries are, in my opinion, in the interests of both neighbours, and Estonia has always been interested in good relations for all its neighbours. In terms of numbers. Since you also referred to the growth of trade and tourism, and the growth you mentioned sounded so powerful, there may be an understanding that trade between Estonia and Russia is already at such a level that Russia is the first in competition with our export partners. It's not quite accurate. Current data show that after the changes in 2011 Russia is the third export partner for Estonia after Sweden and Finland. The number of tourists arriving from Russia in Estonia, as I referred to earlier, increased by 43% in 2011. Trade, on the export side, to Russia is 11% of our total exports. That's the numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U78	Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. Unfortunately, our time is over. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking the questions. Dear Members of the Government, thank you for your answer. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U79	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 15th working week. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U80	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I have a draft law amending the State Death Support Act, which provides for the restoration of the state's funeral allowance from 1 January next year. Why is that necessary? When this support was cut in 2009, it amounted to EEK 3000, which is currently EUR 191. This was particularly helpful for families where death comes unexpectedly. Sometimes someone is sick in our family, and we know that this sad moment will soon come. But sometimes it happens completely unexpectedly. We talked to a lot of social workers all over Estonia and found out that the situation was very sad. We have municipalities where up to 10% of people refuse to bury their own because there is no money. We have quite a lot of people who, in order to cover funeral expenses, take a quick loan and get into a worse situation. In short, we consider this support to be necessary. It is not, in fact, very burdensome for the state budget if we restore the death grant to the extent that it was EUR 191 per person in 2009. It would cost the state budget 3.5 million. I hope that we will take this into account in this Chamber even when we start making the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U81	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill. If the draft law complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. Here's the news. First of all, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered Andres Jalaku and Toomas Tõniste as the Chairman of the Group of the Prosama and Res Publica Union as the Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu member Kaia Iva and the members of the Riigikogu. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. The draft law amending the law on ambient air protection, the general part of the Code of Economic Activities and the State Fees Act, initiated on 14 May, is the Committee on the Environment; the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The draft law amending the Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, initiated on 14 May, is the commission of the Finance Committee; members of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laaneti, Deniss Borodichi and Rainer Vakra s. The draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, launched on 15 May 2004, is the Committee on the Environment. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir. Ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U82	The first item on today's agenda is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations Monitoring Mission in Syria." I would like to ask Mrs Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Committee, to speak as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U83	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft Decision was completed on 9 May. a. No amendments were tabled by the deadline and therefore the text of the draft decision at first reading should be used as the basis for the second reading. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu proposed by the National Defence Committee in 225 of its own. At its meeting on 10 May 2004 and decided to support it. According to the draft, the United Nations Supervision Mission in Syria, or the United Nations Observation Mission in Syria (UNSMIS), will contribute to two military observers. The duration of the participation of Estonian Defence Forces is directly related to the mandate of the UN Security Council. The mission shall be based on the United Nations Security Council. a Resolution No 2043 of 21 April 2005. As a member of the UN, Estonia needs to participate in the peace initiatives of the organisation, taking into account its possibilities. As a member of the international community and a member of the UN, Estonia has a duty, alongside its rights, to contribute to the UN's efforts to ensure peace in crisis areas. The deployment of Estonian Defence Forces helps to strengthen Estonia's contribution to the UN's activities in securing peace. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision before the second reading. a at its meeting on 14 May, where it decided by consensus to approve the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft. Earlier, s. On 3 May, the National Defence Committee had already decided that if the first reading of the draft decision was completed, the Riigikogu Board would be invited to include the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 16 May for the second reading. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided. At its meeting on 14 May 2010, the Riigikogu, by consensus, proposed that the second reading of the draft decision under discussion be completed, put to the final vote and adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U84	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. No questions for the waitress. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments either. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the United Nations observation mission in Syria' in draft 225. Please vote! 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U85	The second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Mental Aid Act, the Penal Register Act, the Penal Care Act and the Health Services Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Igor Gräzini, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Committee, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U86	Honourable Riigikogu! This is a so-called chemical castration law, although there are other aspects in it. The Commission re-examined this question on 16 May 2012. There is nothing radically new to what has already been said, apart from the fact that we also asked Dr. Imre Rammul, the representative of psychiatrists, who explained some medical and pharmacological aspects. I think that his whole performance could be summed up in the answer to the question that we asked him at the end of everything. We said, 'Imre, you're not only a doctor, you're also an experienced politician. As a politician, can you assure the Commission that as a result of this law, our streets will be safer and our children will be better protected afterwards? ' Imre Rammul said that he would respond like a politician and a doctor, like a professional in this field: yes, he will be safer. After one small technical remark, which I can explain if necessary, a vote was taken. The consensus decided to conclude the second reading, send the draft to the Riigikogu today and propose that the third reading be held on 30 May 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U87	Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. But Mr Laanet has a question for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Igor! Indeed, the debate on this draft law took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs, let us say, extremely concisely, particularly as regards the meeting with Mr Rammul. I'm sure the MPs in the Chamber, who include me, are interested in giving a little more detail to Mr. Rammul's meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U89	There was a round of questions and answers at the meeting, and Dr Rammul also made a brief presentation. The main problems to which attention had to be drawn were as follows: Question 1: Is this so-called chemical castration, which in fact means the application of a healthy medical device complex, a punishment or a prevention? In other words, what is this thing, after all? The right answer is that this is not a punishment. It is a partial prevention in this sense that medical measures will achieve the following. There was a bit more straightforward talk in the Commission, but let us say politely that treatment will result in a decrease in sexual drive and performance. It is not applied to the real paedophiles, which are written in the paper today, but to the paedophiles who committed so-called non-contact crimes. In short, those who have confined themselves to child pornography, flashing, and such things. These aren't very bad things. The other thing, chemical castration doesn't replace punishment. If you look at the text that is presented here, you will see that this is a partial replacement of the sentence. This means that some are actually incarcerated. Next thing, this treatment does not only contain pills, it is not only purely mechanical, purely chemical, but it also contains a large psychological counselling complex. Among other things, the subject of victim empathy is being dealt with: paedophiles are creating a feeling, or they make it clear that what they do is really bad. The pedophile gallery is in today's paper. Indeed, some of them do not realize that they are doing bad things. They feel that they are gentle, tender, and so on. So these three things together, the pills, the conversations and the shut-down, should produce a real result. It is true that Mr Rammul drew our attention to the fact that there is one more thing. The small point of inequality is that not all people can take these pills. For example, if a person has liver problems or problems with adrenals or the like, he or she would take pills, but he or she can't. The law says it's sad, but if you can't, just keep sitting. Taking a tablet is not a substitute for punishment. There will be no double supervision here: both the supervision of the parolee and medical supervision. This is not the worst paedophile I've ever seen. He'll see for himself that it's not quite right. He sits down for a really short time and then his performance is suppressed in the final part of the sentence. Imre Rammul pointed out one more thing. This is a relatively new matter for us, which is why it must be implemented in a very limited way, just as the law is very limited. We can talk about 10 to 30 people, maybe less. We are just beginning to develop relevant competence centres in this direction in Estonia. Whether things are going to get much better in this area, we do not know that, but it is certain that the situation will not get any more dangerous, and we are on the road to a much lower rate of relapse. These were Dr. Rammul's main points of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U90	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U91	Before that, Tarmo, one of the digits of the recidence number. Rammul's estimate is that if so far the recurrence for soft pedophilia has been 20, it should now be reduced to about five. That's the winning number now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U92	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U93	Thank you, good manager. Good Igor! Chemical castration is known to have no lasting consequences. It is possible to recover quickly if certain countermeasures are taken, for which funds are also available from over-the-counter sales of the pharmacy. How meaningful is this chemical treatment when a person is on the loose and has a cure five to ten minutes away?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U94	That's right!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U95	I'm asking: is chemical castration so-called rehab given to a person for life or some period of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U96	Very good! That's the question! When it gets louder between this castration substance (which has a terrible complex name that I can't remember) and Viagra, which wins? Well, it's a fifty-fifty relationship like that. First, you have to put these things together. But the other problem is that I will come back to it again, that this treatment means not only feeding the tablet but also complex psychological treatment, which starts in prison. At all, castration is not an option if a person does not want it, and if he does not realize that he has to get rid of that deviation. I'd compare it to an alcoholic. If you know you can't take the first shot, you can't take it. But there's a way to fool it. Oh, my God, an ampoule is being trained! Mihkel Raud has written thoroughly and interestingly about the domestication of an alcoholic ampoule. It's a science of its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U97	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U98	Mr President, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, the rapporteur, the When I read this bill and the explanatory memorandum, I felt that I had such a meaningful conclusion that, as the burden on prisons decreased, the burden on probationers would increase. They will handle all these processes and possible cases if treatment is discontinued. Do we have enough people to do so, and do they have proper preparation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U99	On preparation, I will be honest with you: everything that exists in Estonia today is the experience of other countries, books and the willingness of psychiatrists to deal with this issue. Really, this has not been done so far. That's one. The second thing is (this is also the answer to what Tarmo started) that this thing does not last forever, we are talking about two or three years. The assumption is that a person does not want to go to prison a second time. Second, he understands that what he did to the little child is wrong. If he already feels that it's going to be that way, that performance is starting to tick lightly, or that there's some sort of thing happening, then he volunteered, without any command, to go back to treatment, knowing that if he doesn't get it, it's gonna be like it shouldn't. Once again, these are relatively soft things. These acts are brutal, but they are softer: child pornography, exhibitionism, etc. Those people aren't the ones who're going after someone. It's more of a disorientation or something.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U100	Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am interested in a theoretical question on this draft, which perhaps is not so theoretical: when the Commission prepared this draft, did it also look at it from the point of view of gender equality?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U102	Of course he did. Mr Rammul pointed out that, as far as certain types of paedophilia are concerned, as sad as it may be, the crimes committed by women may be more dangerous and this crime may be higher than expected. This is for the simple reason that there is a relatively widespread thing called post-menstrual hypersexuality. This is a very serious and significant risk group. True, it seems that women are more aware of this issue and perhaps have a different mental orientation. They either don't let themselves loose or they don't give men control over their insane passions. This could be this aspect. But there's a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U103	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U104	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, This treatment is not known to be the cheapest. When a person, like you said, comes out of prison and gets that irresistible urge again, but he feels he wants to beat it himself, and he's going to get treatment, then who's going to pay for it? First, who will pay when this treatment is prescribed and he agrees with it, and second, who will pay when he takes the initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U105	The funds are currently earmarked for this from the state budget, but what happens from now on is, as of today, a question mark, let us say. We must decide this with the Committee on Social Affairs, where another issue, namely one of the problems related to the treatment of minors, is currently being decided in a complex way. But the initial cost is borne by the state, this treatment is paid out of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U106	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U107	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I know the answer, but maybe for both the verbatim and the public...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U108	Then why do you ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U109	I ask because for many, the same so-called chemical castration law has led to the misunderstanding that it deals with all rapists and pedophiles. Maybe in a few words you'll just say what kind of sex offenders are affected by this provision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U110	This isn't about the least of the rapists, or, let's say, this real hardcore rapist, whoever goes on and rapes is using brutal violence, whatever. It doesn't go down at all. We are talking about those who have been imprisoned for a short period of time, i.e. six months to two years. It's not pretty what they've done, but it's not the worst yet. It is this so-called non-contact paedophilia: it does not attack anyone, it does not involve violence, etc. It's actually the contingent that we're dealing with, let's say, the reasonable hope that he just made a mistake. They haven't done any direct harm to any child.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U111	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. Would colleagues like to speak? No calls, no negotiations. One proposed amendment to this draft law was tabled by the lead committee. This proposal has been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 176 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U112	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities begins. Maret Maripuu, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Board, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act 188 amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, initiated by the Government of the Republic, was completed on 4 April. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; To remind you that the aim of the draft is to ensure the availability and proper quality of primary healthcare with improved planning and organisation and enhanced supervision. The draft amends the provisions of the Health Services Organisation Act on general medical care, which brings together the organisation function of primary health care, namely, the organisation of a competition for the establishment of a list of family doctors, the approval of a list of family doctors, the organisation of the temporary replacement of family doctors and supervision to the Health Board. The regulation relating to the right to practise as a family doctor, in particular as regards the establishment and modification of the list of family doctors, will be made more precise than has been the case so far. The concept of a service area and a place of business and the replacement of a listed family doctor will be addressed. The Social Democratic Party Group had tabled four amendments to the draft by the deadline for tabling amendments. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft and the Socialist amendments on 7 May and, for its part, tabled 11 amendments during the debate. Pille Saar, Adviser to the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Pille Tammpere, Legal Advisers Teet Torgo and Kadri Kurvits, and Health Insurance Fund were represented by Kristina-Valeria Tobias. On 14 May, the Commission discussed the draft and tabled another amendment. There are therefore 16 amendments in total. Let me now present to you the most important proposals. Amendment 1 amends the title of the draft. The need for change is due to the concentration of the organisation of general medical care in the competence of the Health Board and the termination of the corresponding function of county elders. According to the current version of the Cause of Death Act, the County Elder is supervising the family doctors alongside the Health Board. The draft 188 centralises the primary health management function in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which means that the current tasks of the county manager in organising general medical care will be transferred to the Health Board. Thus, the duties of a rural elder must also be excluded from the law on the cause of death and placed with the Health Board. The title of the draft should be supplemented accordingly. Amendments to the Cause of Death Act are set out in Amendment 14. Amendment 2 supplements the Health Services Organisation Act and gives the Health Board the right to receive data from the Health Insurance Database when comparing lists of family doctors to carry out its new tasks. The third amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and has been partially taken into account by the Commission. The idea of the Social Democrats has been reflected in Commission Amendment 4, according to which if the family doctor is replaced by more than three months, he must also inform the Health Board of the reasons for his temporary absence and communicate his contact details. Although, in the case of long-term replacement, the family doctor himself ensures that a replacement of a family doctor is found, the knowledge of the reason for the replacement will help the Health Board to better predict the need to comply with the obligation arising from subsection 39 (new paragraph 40) of the draft. If necessary, the Health Board is obliged to arrange for the temporary replacement of the family doctor. The supplement will also help the Health Board to monitor the provision of general medical care, helping to better identify cases where the long-term replacement of a family doctor is not temporary. It is necessary to identify situations where a family doctor with a list is working abroad for a long time at the same time and does not, personally and directly, provide general medical assistance to persons on his list. In this case, the family doctor usually has a replacement who receives patients once or twice a week, rather than according to the instructions provided by the family doctor and the health care professional working with him, i.e. 40 hours a week. According to the new paragraph 25 of § 1 of the Bill, the Health Board decides to withdraw the right to act as a family doctor and the list of family doctors if the replacement of a family doctor is of a temporary nature, taking into account the duration, frequency, regularity, occasionality and continuity of the work and replacement of a family doctor, and it is not ensured that the family doctor with the approved list consistently provides general medical care. The fifth amendment is also from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. It is proposed to reduce the time taken to replace the long-term family doctor from two years to one year. The Commission decided to take part in this proposal and proposed Amendment 6, according to which long-term replacement may last for up to one year, for up to two years in the case of professional self-service training and for parental leave until the end of parental leave. Amendment No 8 requires the replacement of a family doctor to inform the family doctor and the Health Board immediately if the replacement expires before the deadline or exceptionally. Such an obligation to provide information may fulfil the objective of protecting patients on the list, the family doctor who owns the list, as well as the obligations of the State, indicating that additional measures are needed to serve the list. Amendment 9 gives the Health Board the power of discretion to decide with whom to conclude an administrative contract from ambulances. The Committee on Social Affairs also discussed the last amendment by the Socialists, Amendment 11, and decided to take part in Amendment 12. The Commission took into account the proposal to convert two months into 60 calendar days. The Commission did not support the proposal to remove the list of family doctors because it has not been able to find a replacement. If a family doctor encounters problems finding a replacement, he or she can contact the Health Board, the law gives the opportunity to do so, and the Health Board arranges for the replacement of a family doctor if necessary. The Social Affairs Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be referred to the Riigikogu for a second reading. On 16 May 2004 and to propose to the large hall that the second reading of the draft be completed. All decisions were taken in full agreement with the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. You have questions. Starts with colleague Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U115	Madam President! Good colleague! In Kohtla-Järve there is currently a concern about the site and the service area. It could be said a little bit more about it, but the draft states exactly: 'The distance between the place of operation and the service area must not be unreasonablely long. There must be a reasonable public transport connection between the site and the service area. 'Smartly comment on these terms 'unreasonably long' and'reasonable public transport connection'.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U116	Thank you. It is important to look at the number of people in a given location and at the transport connection guaranteed by the municipality. So far, when he arranged for a family doctor to be found, the mayor looked at it within his county. Now it is possible for patients to find a family doctor across the so-called county borders. If a person lives near the border of a county, it may be more useful for him to visit a family doctor in a different county because it is better to get to it. Aggregating this service to the Health Board should ensure that the service is better accessible to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U117	Please, colleague Priit onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm asking you about the same thing I was interested in at first reading. In the meantime, has there been any discussion about where these posts are to be set up at the Health Board? Or if you didn't mention it during the trial, maybe you know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U119	The Health Board has its own regional points all over Estonia. After the adoption of the bill as a law, the implementation period is the best, optimal options are sought. Today, I cannot tell you that there, there, and there, the posts of the Health Board are being planned, but the best opportunities are being sought to ensure a good service, given that there is also good cooperation with local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U120	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Neeme the Great. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U121	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft that we are currently dealing with concerns the centralisation of the organisation of family medical care, so that the tasks of rural parents so far will be transferred to the Health Board. In essence, this means the movement of one vital service from counties to the so-called regions and capital. It is a first-level service that has a direct link to the security of people on a daily basis and the organisation of local life. It is obvious that the organisation of family medical care needs to be adjusted, as there is a lack of clarity, duplication, non-regulation and overregulation in the system. The question remains whether the central solution proposed will still reduce the drought of family doctors and ensure access to services. So far, the head of the county has been the organiser of general medical care. The current decentralised management system is criticised for lack of coordination, lack of specialisation, entanglement within the county borders. Nevertheless, it is a service directly linked to the organisation of local life. Each list and family doctor needs to be dealt with separately. The organisation of family medicine is related to every local government, other local social network, as well as to the organisation of public transport both within the municipalities and at the county level. The draft highlights the system's dependence on public transport on several occasions. Without denying the problems that have existed in the current system, the question remains how centralisation will ensure that every local problem, every person, every family doctor's office, every municipality and every bus route will be covered. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs has a firm plan to concentrate family doctors in family medicine centres. The justification is the benefits of transporting family doctors on a common ground, whether they are a replacement or a solution to economic issues. This means that each county has two to four centres, depending on the size of the county, where family doctors work together. The National Audit Office's audit last year revealed that there are about 200 villages in 78 municipalities in Estonia, from which it is not possible to visit a family doctor by means of public transport within one day. However, the development plan for primary health care sets the objectives that by 2015 the distance from the nearest family doctor's place of business will not increase and that a non-extraordinary medical transport service system has been set up and funded. The development plan also aims to have 15 family doctor centers in Estonia's attraction centres by 2015, with 65% of the primary service providers should belong to local governments or be established in cooperation with local authorities. Do we really perceive how developments in family medical care and primary care relate to local governments, the organisation of local and regional life? The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the Health Board will certainly continue the positive cooperation practice of rural governments with local authorities in the case of centralisation of the organisation of general medical care. I'm asking you, how do you hire two specialists at regional level? You could add two parallels here. The fact that professionals working in the region do not reach every municipality is a good thing to see from the Rescue Board, in the area of crisis management. In 2009, the county crisis committees were wound up on the grounds that an administrative reform was imminent. But the administrative reform did not come and the functioning system of county crisis committees was replaced by a system where municipal committees are too small and the regional committee is too far away. The regional level officials of the Rescue Board are struggling to coordinate the activities of the local authorities' crisis committees. As a result of the change, the safety of the population was reduced. Does family medicine also happen? One example is the Road Administration's plan to take over the regional public transport arrangements from the county authorities. In recognition of the need to communicate at local level every day, the Road Administration decided to leave a public transport operator to work in each county. Shouldn't every county Health Board office be given an additional function and left with the first-level health coordinator, the old name, in every county of the county doctor? If we were to follow the principle of holistic governance, as the OECD has suggested to us, we should not make such changes in regional administration and first-level services on a sectoral basis, but on the basis of a single concept. Currently, each authority has its own model, its own region and its own vision. If we continue to do so, in the end we will not have a functioning self-governing, county or regional level, but the state of the authorities that are encircled in their vertical pipe. The most important problem in family medical care is the lack of money in the system. The government is trying to treat it by centralising it, by increasing the cost of local governments and people themselves. The bill is in the proceedings in the Riigikogu, there are several necessary changes, but new problems arise as much as it solves the old ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U122	Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There are 16 amendments to the draft law. Let's go through them. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has been partially taken into account by the commission. Amendment 4 is from the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 5 is from the Social Democratic Party Group and is partly taken into account. Amendment 6 is from the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 7 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and is partly taken into account. Amendments 8, 9 and 10 are from the Committee on Social Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and is partly taken into account. Amendments 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 are from the Committee on Social Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. The second reading of bill 188 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U123	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Administrative Cooperation and the Law on Sport initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rein Lang, Minister of Culture of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! That's a very good bill. The purpose of the draft is for the Ministry of Culture to be able, on the basis of an administrative contract, to provide a sports database known as a sports register with the tasks of a processor to a private legal person, namely the Sport Training and Information Foundation. In order for everything to be legally correct, it is necessary to amend the law on administrative cooperation and also the law on sport. § 61 of the Sports Act is supplemented by paragraph 4 and § 13 (11) of the Administrative Cooperation Act is supplemented by paragraph 19. Please support the bill! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U125	Thank you. Any questions? Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I also understand that this is a necessary bill. But I'm still gonna ask you this. The purpose of such a sports register is to collect information, but it also has a more remote effect on people being more athletic and healthier. Is there any way you can put it in terms of how this register will contribute to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U127	Thank you. This is a database where data are collected on coaches, sports organisations, sports events and sports bases. It is publicly available at www.sportregister.ee. You can search it for any information you want. This will certainly make it much easier and less time-consuming to find a suitable training method. You can find sports bases where you can train. It's one good thing in every way. It's a workable thing. It is logical that in order to maintain this register, the State does not set up a separate public authority or employ public officials. Since we have the Sport Training and Information Foundation, which can do this perfectly alongside other work, it would make sense to transfer this register to this foundation, but unfortunately it can still be done through an administrative contract. So we just have to do the formalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U128	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, This is a very positive bill, I agree with Urve. However, § 2 states that the functions of an authorised processor of a sports database may be performed by a private legal person under an administrative contract, but the explanatory memorandum is about a public-owned foundation. Why is that? Why is this legal entity established with the participation of the State not included in the text of the draft, but only in the explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U130	But they are the same thing, Madame Toom. All foundations are private entities in nature, it is like a broader concept. The fact that a specific foundation was founded by the State in its own time does not change it into a public entity or a public body. It is a private entity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U131	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Indeed, an excellent bill. My question was caused by your answer to the first question. Can the parties also submit their events to the list of events included in this sports register? A number of events are known to be organised by civil society and civil society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U133	Totally! Everyone's welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U134	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U135	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Did I get it right that in any case this does not mean that in the future, the whole database might go into the hands of a third legal entity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U136	Thank you for your question. That's a very good point. That is why we are concluding an administrative contract, not a civil contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U137	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. No more questions for you. I would like a presentation by Lauri Luige, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this bill (200 SE) with a jubilee number concerns the amendment of the Sport Act and, in addition, the Administrative Cooperation Act. The Committee on Culture discussed this draft law on Monday, 7 May. The meeting was chaired by Mr Aadu Black, Vice-President of the Commission. Deputy Chancellor Tõnu Seil of the Ministry of Culture and Counsellor of the Legal Department Peeter Papstel were invited. The guests gave an overview of the content and key aspects of the draft law. That's what Minister Rein Lang was talking about. Lakonically, the Sport Training and Information Foundation is given the mandate or the right to maintain the Estonian Sports Register. The aim of the Sports Register is to keep records of Estonian sports organisations, sports schools, sports buildings and coaches in order to improve the organisation and management of sports activities and participation in sports activities. Some questions were also raised in the Commission. For example, can the creation of a certain exception open Pandora's box, so there will be other exceptions. We were told that there are already a number of exceptions to the law, that this is not a precedent, rather a normal phenomenon. It was asked whether there were similar foundations, companies or institutions in addition to the Sport Training and Information Foundation in Estonia, where there would be such a level of competence and information. On this point, the Deputy Chancellor Tõnu Seil replied that there is no other such competent body in Estonia other than the Sport Training and Information Foundation. There are bodies that can maintain a number of databases, but they certainly do not have the same competence as the Sport Training and Information Foundation. It was asked whether the content of the sports register was available to everyone and how the information was displayed there. It was said that parents, for example, could get information about sports clubs, children participating in them, the background of sports clubs, trainers, and also the professional skills of coaches. For my part, in response to Urve's question, I would like to comment that if, as a parent, I look at the sports register, for example, that Haapsalu is a coach with excellent professional skills, it motivates me to put my child in this training group. There are certainly quite a few other nuances that contribute to the general activation of sports activities. The last question was how the information gets to the sports register. For this purpose, there are representatives of the county sports federations who are obliged to enter and share information there. This system is completely in place. There was no further discussion. We took three decisions, all in consensus: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today, on 16 May, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at seven working days, so that we can process this draft before the Riigikogu begins its second working form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U139	Thank you very much, Mr Luik. No questions for the waitress. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 200 amendments on 25 May 2012 at 4 p.m. The first reading of bill 200 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U140	The first reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Rumor has it this is a very good bill. In particular, it transposes into Estonian law Directive 2010/84/EU establishing new measures to detect, evaluate and prevent harmful effects of medicinal products for human use more effectively. I understand that, since this is a transposition of the European directive, all these aspects of the amendment of the directive have been subject to appropriate procedures in Parliament, i.e. the positions of the government in the European Union Affairs Committee have been confirmed and the content of the draft should already be known to Parliament. I tried to read the bill, too, but I didn't understand anything. It is written here that the objectives of the draft are, firstly, to strengthen the pharmacovigilance systems of companies, secondly, to ensure the collection of high-quality pharmacovigilance data, thirdly, to define clear roles and responsibilities of key pharmacovigilance responsible parties. The roles and responsibilities of the marketing authorisation holders of the medicinal product, the competent authorities of the Member States and the European Medicines Agency shall be specified. The proposal will increase transparency and improve the exchange of information on pharmacovigilance issues. The aim is to involve stakeholders in pharmacovigilance, including the possibility for patients to report directly potential adverse reactions. The proposal simplifies the current Community pharmacovigilance procedures and rationalises the decision-making process on pharmacovigilance issues. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U142	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. You have questions. Starts with my colleague Maret Maripuu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U143	Thank you. Good minister! Until today, you've always come here with a remote control and said it was a very good bill. Now you have made a small reservation: it is said to be a very good draft. At the same time, you have been a sure guarantee. For many members of the Riigikogu, this has been enough to press the green button. I'm going to ask you this: can you tell me now that you've studied the bill and introduced it here, has it suddenly become a good bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U144	Thank you. The government is exclusively presenting good or very good drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U145	Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U146	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This law amends § 68 (21) of the Pharmaceutical Act, in which the words "the European Union' are replaced by the words "the European Economic Area'. Switzerland is known to be quite advanced in the pharmaceutical industry. Has Switzerland joined the European Economic Area or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U147	Thank you. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U148	No further questions. Thank you once again, Minister for Culture. Mr Helmen Küti, member of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first debate in the Social Committee on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic was held. a on May 8th. Dagmar Rüütel, Acting Head of the Pharmaceutical Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Helen Tralla, Acting Head of Legal Affairs, participated in the discussion. Dagmar Rüütel introduced the bill. In his presentation, the Minister has already told us what the objectives of this bill are. Only so much can be added that the purpose of the draft law is to introduce amendments to the Community rules on medicinal products for human use into Estonian law. The aim is to strengthen the system for monitoring the safety of medicinal products for human use, to better protect public health, to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to simplify current rules. The proposal also empowers the Agency to grant a marketing authorisation, provided that the marketing authorisation holder complements the risk management system, ensures an adequate pharmacovigilance system, fulfils additional obligations regarding the registration or reporting of adverse reactions and other conditions and restrictions necessary to ensure the safe and effective use of the medicinal product. Estonia adopted the Pharmaceutical Act in 2004, which entered into force on 1 March 2005. This draft complements the Pharmaceutical Act with effect from Section 64 of Chapter 3. The draft provides information on the safety of the medicinal product. The aim is to improve the availability of information. The opinions and decisions of the periodic risk assessment shall be made public on the European medicines safety web-portal. The members of the Social Committee did not have any questions about the draft law, because everything had been very well explained. The Commission unanimously decided to send the draft to first reading today, on 16 May, with a proposal to close the first reading and to set the deadline for submitting amendments. May 24, 18 a.m. A speaker was appointed before you to present the draft and the Commission's views. I would like to conclude the presentation of this draft by saying that, given the rapporteurs, it is certainly a very cultural and social draft, but above all a European draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U150	Thank you very much, Mr Helmen Hunter. You have questions. Please, Mr Randpere, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U151	Dear waitress, I would like to clarify what year the pharmaceutical law came into force! I got the impression that...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U152	1 March 2005.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U153	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You just said that this is a very cultural draft...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U155	A cultural bill, considering the waitresses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U156	Could you expand this epithet a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U157	This was simply due to the rapporteurs: the Minister of Culture appeared in the duties of the Minister of Social Affairs and the representative of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U158	No further questions. Thank you again, Mr Helmen Küttt! Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 224 amendments. May 24, 18 a.m. First reading of Bill 224 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U159	First reading of the Estonian Education Act initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and related amendments to other laws begins. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U160	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Government of the Republic, I propose to amend the Education Act and some other laws relating thereto. This is driven by the intention to organise the network of institutions managed by the Ministry of Education and Research. The aim is to reduce the fragmentation of the number and governance of government agencies and to make better use of available resources. To update my memory, there are two government institutions (Keleininspektsioon and National Archives), three state institutions (National Examination and Qualifications Centre, Estonian Youth Work Centre and Estonian Education and Science Data Network EENet), as well as eight state foundations (Innove Foundation, Vocational Centre, Archimedes Foundation, Estonian Research Foundation, Foundation for Sport Training and Information Foundation, Tiger jump Foundation, Estonian Information Technology Foundation and Sihtasutus Science Centre AHHAA). There are many of these institutions, and some of them could be connected to another. The Ministry of Education and Research has been planning since 1 August. a merge the National Examination and Qualifications Centre with Innove Foundation and, in this case, terminate the activities of the REKK public institution administered by the State. As a result, some laws need to be amended to enable the tasks of the National Examination and Qualifications Centre to be transferred to Innove by means of an administrative contract. Innove Foundation is a private legal entity founded by the Government of the Republic. It is headed by a five-member council composed of three Ministries of Education and Research, one representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs and one representative of the MKM. This foundation has 76 employees, or so many employees at the end of last year, and the REKK had 85 employees at the end of last year. So there's going to be an institution with 160 employees that is more or less comparable to the Ministry of Education and Research. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Research also plans to consolidate, save some resources and reduce duplication. I hope that this proposal will be acceptable to you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U161	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Thank you, Minister. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deputy Chairman of the Cultural Commission Aadu Musta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Committee on Culture has just discussed the draft that was presented to you on Thursday, 10 May. As invited guests, this bill was presented at our meeting by Chancellor Janar Holm of the Ministry of Education and Research and Robert Lippin, Director of the State Examination and Qualifications Centre. The fact that was submitted to the Commission was similar to what we have just heard. To sum up very briefly, the Commission first tried to find out whether this was such a good draft, which would also help the state save money. So frivolous were the representatives of the ministry that they wouldn't have allowed it. They said it would allow us not to ask for more money in the future. However, this idea of institutional consolidation is certainly gratifying here. In view of all this, the Committee on Culture was in full agreement that this is a very good draft that deserves support. It was also decided that the draft should be placed on the plenary agenda today, and it was proposed that the first reading of the draft be stopped. It was a consensual decision. The deadline for tabling amendments was asked to set seven working days in order to get it over with during the work cycle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U163	Good waitress, thank you! There's a question for you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, With regard to this draft, the Minister and you, too, have mentioned that it is likely that resources can be saved, if not right away, in the future. As an expert in education, I ask you whether this consolidation will also have a positive impact on education.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U165	Yes, it certainly has a positive effect. For all those involved in education, this means in practical life that instead of two phone calls, a single call in one place is enough. But this was a simplified example. It will certainly become easier, more straightforward and more transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-16_U166	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the political groups, would you like to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 223 amendments on 25 May 2012 at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. Thank you and I wish you the strength of your work. Closure of the sitting at 3:06 p.m.
