ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the sixth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2012 and second, the law amending the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when these two draft laws are being processed. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act and the Port Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U3	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft to be handed over by the Centre Party Group aims to limit the salaries of the heads of state companies. The draft ensures that the salary of the President of the Republic of Estonia, together with representation fees, is the limit of which members of the board of directors of companies and foundations established by the state would not earn more. The current situation, where the salary of the Estonian Head of State is less than that of a member of the board of directors of a company with the power of decision of a state, does not honour Estonia. We have tabled a draft with the same content in the past, but we believe that it is a favourable situation at the moment to re-submit this draft law. Andrus Ansip, President of the Reform Party, has also said in a loud and clear voice that the salaries of the leaders of several state companies are not clear to him. We hope that the Reform Party will now also understand the seriousness of the situation and give us a hand in discussing this draft. We propose a solution to limit the salary of the managers of state companies to EUR 6000 per month. The appointment of directors' remuneration is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board and if the members of the Supervisory Board do not want to deal adequately with this issue, for example by deciding to raise the salary of the manager of RMK to EUR 8000 in a silent consensus, this situation cannot be tolerated. The activities of public undertakings and foundations have also been criticised by the Auditor General, who considers that the activities of the members of the Supervisory Board should be clarified and improved. We are taking a first step together here to clarify this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts. The Management Board decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now I'll give you the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Estonian Central Party Group. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the VAT Act, initiated on 17 October, Steering Committee on Finance; secondly, Rainer Vakra, Deniss Borodichi, Lembit Kaljuvee and Inara Luigas, members of the Riigikogu, and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated on 17 October, commission of the Economic Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 82 members of the delegation registered as present; no 19. We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda, which must be confirmed by one amendment. Attention! The Ministry of Culture has requested that the new item No 3 be added to today's agenda, namely the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, Aadu Musta, Lauri Laas, Tarmo Tamme, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Eldar Efendijev, Priit Toobali and Ester Tuiksoo on 24 September of this year regarding the actual cost of renovating the hangars of Seaplanes at Seaplane Harbour (No 190), to which the Minister of Culture Rein Lang corresponds. With this amendment, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 80 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U6	Now, let's get back to the questions. The first is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Deniss Borodichi, Kalle Laaneti and Rainer Vakra on 26 September 2012 concerning excise duties on fuel imported into the Republic of Estonia and related activities of customs officials (No 193), addressed to Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder. On behalf of the inquisitors, please, a speech chair for Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the subject has already been dealt with very much in the media, I would just like to say one thing as an introduction: this summer, I also asked the Chancellor of Justice written questions about this issue. The Chancellor of Justice has answered me that he has taken the time to deal with this matter. The Chancellor of Justice has now published an analysis of this subject on his website, which has also been briefly referred to by the media, but the topic is still very topical in South-East Estonia and has caused a great deal of speculation. The question is where the Tax and Customs Board has taken the right to mislead passengers and on the basis of which they publish false information about regulations and restrictions that are not included at all in the legislation. To illustrate the situation, I'm going to read some of the extracts from the letters sent to me. The Chancellor of Justice says that he will also do his analysis on the basis of the record presented to him and on the basis of our inquiry, but still one extract from a letter from a man named Hard: 'I have had to sit at the border for three hours, just wait. One time, I took my parents' car to Russia. I refueled 40 liters and my car was taken from me. They didn't want to do that because they threatened to invite me to Metrosert, who's gonna pump and measure the fuel, in case I didn't pay the excise duty, and then I'm gonna have to pay for it. But I felt like I hadn't broken the law and had them take the car away. The car was taken for 72 hours. Later it became clear that the employees of the Tax and Customs Board had never called Metrosert, and I still had to pay the excise duty on the basis of a determined amount of fuel. There are other absurdities that have occurred at the border. I've also filed a complaint, but it hasn't worked in any way. As to why I am not exempt from excise duty, you are told that you do so on a regular basis. It is also interesting that at the beginning, when the people were strangled, it was said that regular is several times a day, then it came that regular is once a week, and now that regular is once a month. My question is: but then, once a year, it is regular when I go to Russia once a year, isn't it? The real situation at the border is that if you go at the border more than once a month, you will have to pay the excise duty regardless of where you are going, which car or how much fuel you own. ' It's a small passage from the letters sent to me. But the next example. A passenger came to Luhamaa's customs station from Russia, who did not declare fuel when driving in to Russia, but on his return he said that he had about 60 litres in the tank, in which case the customs officials said that half of the tank would be okay, but that it would have to be paid over. Since the bank terminals were not operational, the man started counting the money, with a total of 9 euros. Officials said there is no less than 20 euros. Since the man had no more cash, the man was sent back to Russia and returned not through Luhamaa border crossing, but through Koidula. At that time, the rule was that if you go more often than once a week, the excise duty would be charged on all the fuel in the tank. However, when a request was made to read a regulation on this subject, it was said that it was established orally from the highest point of view and could not be read. I too recently traveled to Russia. I went to the customs border and asked the customs authorities to explain how I should behave when I came back with a tank of gas in my car. They say you don't have to declare when you go there. We'll see when we get back. I asked what regulations were still in force at the customs border crossing point, in response to which it was said that there is currently such a regulation that when you cross the border once a month, petrol is exempt from excise duty, if once a week, there is a duty-free amount needed to reach your destination. I asked if you'd be so kind as to give me the order to read. It has been said that this regulation cannot be read, it is an oral regulation. I asked how I, as a passenger, could get to know it. They said they couldn't get to know each other. It's for internal use. However, criminal cases are such that if people do not have cash on the spot to pay excise duty, the car salon will also be searched. It's even happened that the ladies' handbags are being searched to see how much cash they carry. If it's a little bit, they say it's okay. So we expect the Chancellor of Justice to answer our six questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U8	Thank you very much. I ask Chancellor of Justice of the Chair, Indrek Teder, to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Reverends present! Before I go to a specific question, I would like to introduce the fact that, yes, more than ten people have approached me because of the activities of the Tax and Customs Board. Having dealt with these statements, I came to the conclusion that the practice of taxing fuel introduced in the standard tank of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board is not always legitimate and may also be caused by the rules of the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. By referring to it from now on, I shall call it the Act on Excise Duties. On the 11th day of this month, I presented my position to the Minister of Finance and to the Head of the Tax and Customs Board, as well as recommendations to change the situation. This document is also available on my website. Now to the questions. On their first question, members of the Riigikogu want to know why the Tax and Customs Board did not start taxing fuel introduced in the standard tank at the border in 2004, when the current excise law entered into force, but only in June 2012. Yes, indeed, for more than eight years now, the imported fuel has to be subject to excise duty, turnover and customs duty, unless it is exempt. There have been no major changes in the tax exemption regulation over the last eight years. According to this, when entering Estonia, the fuel used in the standard fuel tank of a motor vehicle in the same vehicle and required to reach its destination is subject to an exemption. This is set out in subsections 27 (1) (20) and 68 (1) of the Act on Excise Duties. In order to qualify for exemption, the production of fuel may not be of a commercial nature, i.e. intended for resale (see Section 27 (6) and Section 68 (4) of the Act on Excise Duties). Under these rules, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board did not consider it necessary to levy excise duties until June 2012 even from persons who brought fuel to Estonia several times a day in standard tanks of vehicles from Russia. However, since June this year, the Tax and Customs Board does not consider it possible to apply the exemption even to those persons in Russia who bring fuel in the standard tank a few times a month. I have not yet received official feedback from the Ministry or the Tax and Customs Board on my recommendations, but the head of the Tax and Customs Board has confirmed in "Hellovision" that they now apply tax exemptions to those who go to Russia a few times a month. Some progress is likely to have been made. However, why the Tax and Customs Board has for many years failed to demand taxes from those who brought fuel for resale and decided to tighten the tax regime in June this year, it is not my responsibility to respond. I don't know that. I can speculate that this was the suspicion of the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance that the legislation, including the European Union law governing the subject, would still allow individuals to be taxed in this way. And if we continue to speculate, which is an ungrateful activity, the tax decision may also have led to the fact that, due to the change in the legal regulation of Latvia, many Latvian fuel producers began to travel to Russia via Estonian border crossing points, which created a slightly larger number of queues at the border. On the second and third questions, the members of the Riigikogu ask what is meant by the regulation of Section 68 of the Act on Excise Duties, according to which fuel which is not necessary to reach its destination is taxed. What is to be considered a destination? This destination criterion causes a lot of confusion and controversy at the border. According to tax and customs practice, persons must pay excise duty on fuel in the standard tank of the vehicle which they do not need to reach their destination. From the instructions of the Tax and Customs Board, it can be concluded that all border crossings must pay taxes on fuel which is not necessary to reach their destination. The Minister of Finance, as well as the Head of the Tax and Customs Board, has softened this view in subsequent statements and said that the tax is still levied only on those who are suspected of bringing fuel for sale. In this regard, the Minister has found that the people who cross the border a few times a month are also suspicious, unable to explain to the customs officer why they are going to Russia. Thus, if a person supplies fuel from Russia two or three times a month in a standard tank, he must pay excise, customs and VAT for that part of the fuel that is not required for the journey to the destination. As mentioned above, it is possible that the practice of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board is changing in this regard after my recommendation, and the Tax and Customs Board will no longer require the payment of taxes from those who cross the border a few times a month. As far as the definition of destination is concerned, the Tax and Customs Board has published on its web a guide according to which for passenger cars the destination is the actual destination declared by the holder of the vehicle, which is the place of residence or the place of employment of the person according to the instructions. This also means that the Tax and Customs Board does not accept when a person defines the destination in an abstract way, for example by claiming to travel to Latvia, Lithuania or the European Union. A specific destination must be mentioned. In my practice, there was a case where a person said that his travel destination was a town in Lithuania, and then the Tax and Customs Board ordered that person to leave Estonia via a specific checkpoint to prove that he was on his way to Lithuania. The Tax and Customs Board is therefore very strict as regards the criterion of destination. On the fourth question, the members of the Riigikogu first want to know which laws govern the right of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board to tax passengers' fuel on excise duty. Answer: The taxation is governed by §§ 1, § 22 (1) (2), § 24 (7) and 201 and § 25 (4) of the Act on Excise Duties. According to those provisions, a person generally incurs an obligation to pay excise duty on importation of excise goods, which is also motor fuel. These rules, in turn, are based on the European Union's excise legislation. However, it should be noted that a derogation from the general rule at European Union level on passenger fuel, i.e. exempting fuel introduced in standard vehicle tanks from taxes when the fuel is intended for the passenger's own consumption rather than for resale, has been considered necessary. Passenger fuel is subject to the exemption directive, which has been transposed in Estonia in the respective Act on Excise Duties. In the second half of the fourth question, members of the Riigikogu quote an extract of the guide on the website of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and ask what it means. This extract constitutes a recount of Section 27 (6) and Section 68 (4) of the Act on Excise Duties. Basically, the standards quoted by the members of the Riigikogu say that when fuel is transferred across the border for resale, the tax exemption is not applied to fuel in the standard tank. The rules of the Excise Act also refer to how the Tax and Customs Board could identify the commercial purpose of fuel production, for example by examining the frequency and manner of excise production. For example, there is such a doubt when fuel is brought over the border several times a day with very large standard tanks. In the fifth paragraph, the members of the Riigikogu ask whether Estonian law is contrary to European Union Directive 2007/74/EC, which, according to Article 11, exempts excise and VAT on motor fuel introduced into the standard tank of a vehicle. Under this Directive, excise duty exemption applies to fuel contained in the standard fuel tank of a motor vehicle, provided that such fuel is not produced for sale (Articles 6 and 11 respectively). According to the Directive, a person does not have a commercial purpose when bringing fuel from time to time and in reasonable quantities. This means that, as a general rule, fuel in the standard tank is not subject to taxation. However, if a person brings fuel across the border in very large standard tanks and frequently, the directive requires payment of taxes on such fuel, as it refers to the purpose of resale. In our excise law, this European Union directive has been transposed fairly confusingly. The Act states that excise duty exemption applies to the fuel in the standard tank needed to reach its destination. In addition, it also states the rule that fuel production cannot have a commercial character. Can the law be understood as meaning that fuel that a person does not need to reach his destination must in any case be taxed? The fuel needed to reach its destination shall be exempt, unless it can be assumed that a person will immediately sell the fuel near the border. However, the payment of fuel which is not necessary to reach its destination shall only be charged to border crossingrs whose fuel is of a commercial nature. So why is this destination criterion even needed? In order to also allow a partial tax exemption for fuel traders. Can the purpose of the resale really be expected for the person who brings fuel in, for example, a 60-litre tank three times a month? Looking at the regulation of the Act on Excise Duties and the practice of implementing the Tax and Customs Board, I say that there is no exemption and when it is not applicable to the fuel in the standard tank of my vehicle. Especially if I live near the border. There has been a lot of confusion at the border by setting the target criterion in law. Even if this criterion is only used to determine the amount of tax, it is very problematic. For example, the amount of taxes imposed on a person becomes essentially incorrect if he or she decides to change his or her destination when leaving the border inspection post. The kilometer would immediately change and thus the amount of tax rightly required. The current regulation of excise law and the practice of the Tax and Customs Board may lead to taxes on fuel imports also being paid by those who are entitled to exemption under European Union law, such as people who bring fuel for their own use a few times a month. European Union law requires that the rules on taxation at the border are clear and that people are guaranteed the exemptions provided for by European Union law. Estonian law and practice do not guarantee this at the moment, so I see a contradiction in this. On the sixth question, members of the Riigikogu want to know whether a natural person who pays the necessary taxes at a customs office in agreement with a customs officer has the right to import fuel from Russia into Estonia every day without having permissions and licences. In the course of my procedure, I did not analyse what kind of regulation or other formal requirements have been imposed on fuel imports, because for own use fuel can also be introduced in the normal tank of the vehicle without special permits and registrations. Otherwise, tourism could not work. If fuel is imported for resale, this may, as a general rule, only be done by a company whose capital is subject to certain requirements and which must be registered in the register of economic activities. These issues are specifically regulated in the Liquid Fuel Act. It is also appropriate to look at the European Union Customs Regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U10	Thank you, good answer! You will be able to answer further in the course of the questions, so that time is now up. We're going to the questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U11	Good Chancellor of Justice! Throughout the ages, the lives of border residents have had their charms and pains. I'm glad you intervened to stop bullying the border people by customs officials. But do you consider it normal or fair, as Chancellor of Justice, that if, for example, a family of a fordmaster who lives by the border goes twice a month to refuel his car across the border, winning about a thousand kroons or a little less, our officials will do everything they can to stop it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U12	First of all, I stress that, of course, there is a need to combat illegal fuel trade at the border, but this should not be done without choosing resources and ignoring legislation. That is why I have also stressed in my recommendation, which I sent to both the Minister of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board, that the legal space must be made more precise and clearer. As I pointed out, a person is entitled to an exemption if he brings fuel for his own use. In this recommendation, I also expressed the view that it may not be reasonable to use the concept of destination in the law. And another thing, which is also extremely important and which I referred to in my recommendation: everything that the country does must still be done in accordance with good administration practices, so that people are not offended. People are complaining now, and this shows that they have been mistreated. I'm sure not all complainers are fuel dealers. That would be the general answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U13	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U14	Mr. Chancellor of Justice! I hope that you, as a lawyer and Chancellor of Justice, agree that the implementation of the law must not depend on the discretion of the officials, but must have clear and very specific rules. Can you answer the legal basis on which the customs officer decides whether the fuel is supplied for his own use or whether the fuel has been delivered for sale? What are these criteria? Do you have the impression, when analysing the matter, that it is still a matter for officials, and what is your proposal for better regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U15	Of course, the state must act on the basis of law and any taxation must be very precisely and clearly defined. This is directly due to the Constitution and is also referred to in several Supreme Court decisions. In this case, the question really is that if one rule has been in force since 2004 and then one day the practice of public authority changes what is behind it. I have come to the conclusion in my analysis that, in many cases, it is possible that the root cause of the whole problem is a certain confusion of the norm. This should be amended to ensure that the public administrator has as clear and uniform a legal basis as possible and, on the other hand, that people have confidence that the state will behave fairly with them. This is particularly important in the area of taxation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U16	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U17	Mr Chancellor of Justice! I have also been approached several times by people who have had to pay for the fuel they had in the car tank for their own use. They went once a month and refueled their car. Now, after the first news came out of your hands and it became clear that some sort of order would be created on this issue, they had another question, which I put in this way: how do you appreciate the possibility that those people who have brought fuel for their own use and have still had to pay some sums at the border will receive back the money they have paid in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U18	I doubt the possibility of getting it back. Theoretically, of course, they have the opportunity to try to defend their subjective right in court, but these sums are probably not enough to take on our expensive trial. So in practice, I say, this opportunity is extremely modest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U19	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U20	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I agree with you that illegal fuel business must be restricted and that the official must be properly treated to do so. For 20 years, the Estonian state has been a democratic state whose administration should behave properly. I wanted to ask you how similar problems could be solved in Finland, for example. Have you had time or opportunity to find out if there are any such fuel problems or if any experience could be taken over?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U21	With regard to the Finnish experience, I am indebted to the answer. However, I do know that, when it comes to following good administrative practice, my colleagues in other countries, including the Nordic countries, sometimes face problems. It's something that sometimes tends to be forgotten. The very simple principle is that the state must behave humanely with people, explain why it does something and what is the legal basis for this activity, but sometimes it also tends to be forgotten in democratic societies. Then it must be recalled that people must be treated in a human way, plus that public authority must always have a legal basis for action. I have not analysed Finnish practice in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U22	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U23	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your substantive answers. In this hall, discussions on illegal border trade have been going on for years. I'm here for the fifth year. This year, in February 2012, I believe that Marek Helm, a very good man, became the Director General of the Tax and Customs Board, who took the bull off the horn and decided to implement the law already adopted in 2004. It now turns out that there are certain holes in the underlying documents that this law cannot be applied in practice. My question is: has the Ministry of Finance failed to do anything to ensure that people are properly treated and that good administrative practices are followed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U24	I hope that my recommendation will still be followed. After all, it is presented with the idea that things would work to make administration work reasonably, that the state would receive its taxes, and that, if there were to be an exemption, it would apply. I hope that the Ministry will analyse my recommendations and, if necessary, make a legislative amendment and clarify the rules. So there's not gonna be a bunch of problems that people complain about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U25	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U26	Mr. Chancellor of Justice! Like you, I have been approached by a series of families, and this is the really messy legal space that we have been talking about for a long time today. But here's my question. Today, in this century, we are talking about the only payment option at the border, and it's in cash. How do you comment on that? This is not quite normal, there are other forms of payment. If a person is willing to pay excise duty, why does he have to do it only in cash?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U27	I think it is obvious that the state should allow us to fulfil our obligations as easily as possible. Whatever form I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm If it does, I have to be able to pay. This is, in my opinion, a relatively uncontroversial issue. If we want to consider ourselves an e-state, we should ensure such a very sensible solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U28	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U29	Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for this approach. The answers were very thorough. But the same problem is not only in South-East Estonia but also in North-East Estonia, with only a few nuances. I'm not talking about the fuel business right now, because customs and the border have their own lists, practically all businessmen are known by name. But from Narva, for example, hundreds of people work in Russia, they travel to work every day in Ivangorod, Kingissepp, Ust-Lugasse. They have the same problem. This is a major obstacle to the development of border areas. How do you assess whether this issue needs to be corrected at the level of the law or whether other legislative acts are sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U30	I understand that this is a very direct use of fuel for own use, not for resale. It should therefore be subject to an exemption. Could this be a question of a change of law, is the point of discussion. It's always a good thing when the law states things very precisely. In some cases, excessive precision takes away the discretion of a civil servant, but in the area of taxation it is likely to be good if the tax cases were relatively clearly defined. But this is already the subject of a specific amendment to the law. There are certainly many ways to develop it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U31	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U32	Your Honor, Chancellor! These two terms are "destination point" and "goods," petrol as goods. Won't you, as a lawyer, resist the requirement to name your destination at the border? This is, in my view, a conflict with human freedom, and I am thinking of freedom of movement within the European Union. You may have made an example on the radio that a person wants to drive from the border to Viljandi, but suddenly, on the road, he'll change his mind, drive to Pärnu to see his father. Does this requirement not conflict with human freedom? The other thing is the cargo at the border. When a person comes to the border who determines whether or not there are goods in the tank? In the case of goods, excise duty is known to have to be paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U33	In my recommendation, yes, I would point out that the concept of destination is questionable. Maybe it's worth considering giving it up because it's causing so much confusion. The question is still whether there is resale or not, this is an important moment. On this basis, the exemption will or will not apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U34	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U35	Good Chancellor of Justice! This question relates to the previous question. Doesn't that limit human rights when I have to report to the border where I plan to drive? There is freedom of movement in the European Union, this one big room.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U36	In broad terms, there are many things that restrict fundamental rights and freedoms. According to the Constitution of Estonia, however, any restriction must derive from the law, the restriction must be proportionate and have a legitimate purpose. This is the point of weighing. As I pointed out in replying to the previous question, perhaps using the concept of destination is not the most sensible. I can change my plans, so naming a destination will not serve the purpose likely to have been achieved by this requirement. It is a place of dispute and it is always better to have as few of these places as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U37	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U38	Your Honor, Chancellor! Indeed, there is much confusion and incompetence among officials. All the more reason to thank you for your explanations. I have experience of crossing the border two weeks ago, and in my opinion, the Tax and Customs Board has become much more competent. But my question to you is, do you think it's legal when a person is taken from his car? I couldn't figure it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U39	I have not analysed this car withdrawal separately, so I have not specifically dealt with this issue. And since I haven't analyzed it, I can't give you an answer. However, the Tax and Customs Board has certainly made adjustments during this procedure and its work has changed for the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U40	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U41	Good waitress! It bothers me very much that many colleagues here consider tax fraud to be a normal phenomenon and a human right, while ignoring the fact that it is predominantly organised crime that the tax administration is quite effective in fighting against. And even the production of tax-free fuel, vodka or tobacco for own use actually reduces the income and opportunities of the Estonian state to support those in need through the budget. I believe that we should not tolerate tax fraud in the future. If this is the political will of the majority of the parliament, would this problem be solved in your opinion and the tax administration would be able to fight effectively against tax fraudsters against the Estonian state in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U42	As I emphasised in my answer to the first question: of course, illegal business at the border must be combated. That is absolute truth, and I think that everyone in the Chamber agrees with that. At the same time, the principle of a democratic state is that we always behave in a legal way and, in addition, that we follow good administrative practices. These are the things that I referred to in my recommendation to the Minister of Finance and the Head of the Tax and Customs Board. These are the original principles. Of course, violations must be combated, but just as natural is legality, the rule of law. This must be followed, and there must be no places in this area where we give in to anything. You're saying this is organized crime. I don't know if it is or not, I don't have any data on it. The head of the Tax and Customs Board has said that only 1% of border crossings are controlled. I don't know what the background is for this indicator. At the same time, the aim of the June call for a strict taxation policy was to reduce the number of queues at the border, to get more tax money into public revenue and to fight crime. In that case, the question arises: if only 1% is controlled, will these few persons be able to bring so much fuel across the border, and is it really organised crime? I am convinced that all of this can be organised much more correctly and in a more human way. That's the principle. After all, we want a human state, that is, very simply, good governance, that we are acting in a human way and explaining why something is done and why nothing is done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U43	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U44	Your Honor, Chancellor! I am actually very sorry that Taavi Rõivas, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, does not understand what secret fuel is and what is the fuel that legally enters the country. "Smuggling fuel" means fuel being delivered from somewhere by pipes or ships, under different names, etc. Everything that's going on at Luhamaa and Koidula's border and customs points is perfectly legal. Fuel is delivered in car tanks and depends entirely on the discretion of the customs authorities as to whether or not the fuel is taxed. You have repeatedly said in your speech that the laws and directives provide for the exemption of such fuel. It is also established in Estonia in the Act on Excise Duties, at least tried to establish it. Southeast Estonia has one peculiarity: very many people have loved ones' graves, relatives, real estate on the other side of the control line. Do you really want to bring fuel across the border in the fuel tank of a passenger car twice a week? Or is it allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U45	I think it is possible to regulate the number of times, but this fuel must be for its own use, not for its own sale. However, rules must not hinder the free movement of people across borders. This is a principle and a legally sound balance must be found in its implementation. I think it's quite possible to find it. My recommendation to both the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board is literally constructive criticism. You can fix it and you have to fix it. Of course, the state must collect tax money; of course, there are all kinds of frauds, including tax frauds. But I stress: they must also be combated legally.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U46	Thank you. I saw you wish for a reply, but you don't have that chance to ask questions. If you wish, it is possible to speak in the negotiations. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U47	Your Honor, Chancellor! We have been discussing this for almost an hour here. Who exemplifies this debate with strong words such as organised crime, which in a different way. But last Friday, when Inara Luigas had placed a small button in the Võrumaa Official Journal, 87 great Estonian citizens gathered to discuss this issue. They had a simple question: what happens next? I have a question for you: what can I tell these people? They care about this subject. That's what this Friday meeting showed. When will it be all right for them? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U48	I think my opinion is in the recommendation. It is simply a matter of clarifying the scope of justice so that it is clearer what the rules are and how people can be sure of their rights, how they know what is allowed and what is not allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U49	Thank you very much. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U50	Mr Chancellor of Justice! The Tax and Customs Board estimates that the country will lose EUR 24 million due to this problem. Is there a methodology for how this sum has been calculated, or is it taken from the air? I am referring to the claim that only 1% of transport crossing the border is controlled.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U51	I can't tell you where this number is taken from. I don't have any information on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U52	No more questions right now. Thank you very much, Chancellor. We're going to the negotiations. Just in case, do you think the waitress for an inquiry would like to take part in the negotiations? If so, Inara Luis will have the first chance to come to the remote. Inara Luigas, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I really appreciate you doing this kind of analysis. When I met these 87 people, I asked them all to read your analysis. There's a lot to explain. I am far from protecting those people who bring fuel in large tanks of large machinery across the Russian border to sell it. I am also concerned that little tax money is coming to the Estonian state, but I am far from supporting the behaviour of customs and tax officials that are currently seeing at the border. I protect those who have the right to bring fuel across the border for their own use in accordance with European Union directives and Estonian law. I would also argue with the Chancellor of Justice a little bit because I have now studied a little more laws than usual. I asked good lawyers to explain to me the concepts that this law contains. My views are as follows: When we read the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, we can see that Paragraph 69 (1) of the Law on motor fuels delivered duty-free to Estonia by a passenger says: 'In addition to the fuel contained in the standard fuel tank, a passenger coming from a non-Union country is permitted to bring up, free of excise duty, up to 10 litres of motor fuel for non-commercial purposes during the first day of entry into Estonia of a motor vehicle in his possession. ' Now, what the Chancellor of Justice very briefly touched on, this is § 24 'The emergence of a tax obligation'. Paragraph 201 states: 'The natural person shall be liable to tax on the day of importation of the excise goods imported by him from a non-Union country or sent to him by a natural person from a non-Union country. If the ad valorem or quantitative limit laid down in subsections 47, 48, 57, 58 or 69 of this Act is exceeded, only excise goods exceeding those limits shall be liable for tax. 'The amount of motor fuel specified in subsection 69 (1) of the Act on Excise Duty is a limit for the passenger and, if the limit is exceeded, an obligation to pay excise duty and other taxes will arise. The amount of motor fuel required to reach the destination referred to in § 68 (1) of the Act on Excise Duty does not set that limit. In plain language, you can say as follows: excise-free travellers may have motor fuel from Russia when they return to Estonia at least to reach their destination, but no more than the limit. I would further like to pay attention to customs declarations, how the customs declaration is to be made at the border and customs points. Article 4 (17) of the Community Customs Code provides that a customs declaration is an act whereby a person declares, in the prescribed form and in accordance with the procedure, a wish to place goods under a particular customs procedure. However, point 18 of the same Article explains that the declarant is the person who makes the declaration on his own behalf. I will explain how declarations are currently being made at the border and customs points. I would like to point out here that all this is happening at the discretion of customs officials. The procedure is currently as follows: First of all, the passenger mentions the estimated amount of motor fuel he has in the car tank, and no one accurately measures it. Second, the customs officer inherits his destination. The destination can only be a place of residence or a place of employment, otherwise it is excluded. Third, according to the destination, the customs official determines by his discretion how much fuel it takes to get there. Fourthly, in view of the above, the customs official determines, at his discretion and hypothetically, the quantity of fuel in the vehicle tank for which he draws up a customs account. I would like to stress that it is not the customs declaration that is being filled in, but that a tax claim is being drawn up that is not carried out by a passenger. Now on: the customs officer cannot and cannot be the passenger's representative who makes the declaration on behalf of the passenger. It is in simple language an illegal payment decision, or paper, drawn up by tax officials. The passenger is forced to pay taxes on the basis of this payment order. The documents drawn up are also illegal because motor fuel in a motor vehicle tank is often not subject to taxation because it does not exceed the limit laid down in Paragraph 69 (1) of the Act on Excise Duties. If you look at this payment request, you will see that there is, of course, a signature here. It sounds very cruel, but often tax and customs officials demand this signature with threats. There is no reference in the documents drawn up by customs officials to the possibility of contesting the document drawn up by them. The documents do not contain any reference to legal provisions, all the boxes are completed by customs officials and the views of the traveller are not taken into account. Most intrusive: a document is drawn up according to the official's discretion, and passengers simply have to accept it. Everything that is takes precedence over what is enshrined in the law. And also: passengers should not be considered as importers of liquid fuel from Russia when they return to Estonia. So, in my opinion, the legal rights of passengers arriving from Russia at the customs station in Koidula and Luhamaa are being violated, and this may take place in such a way that border crossings are being subjected to mockery, threats and compulsory payment of taxes which should not actually be paid. Passengers crossing the border on a frequent basis, however, are viewed much worse than those mentioned in the examples. The only law currently in force at the border offices is the opinion of the customs officer. Last Friday, I met people. I have indeed made a small appeal that anyone who wishes to speak to me on this subject should come to a café in the city of Võru. I thought that if there were 15 people, 20 people, I would have done my duty and we could discuss it. At least 87 people were present. They were all sitting or standing with unconscionable faces. Such a great crowd meant that people have been harmed, and people have been harmed this time by the Estonian state. I very much hope that the chaos at the border offices will soon end and that someone will take responsibility for what has happened. The questions remain, however, that if taxes have been unlawfully collected from people, will the Estonian state have to pay back this money and who will apologise to these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U54	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U55	Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't going to come to the remote either, but the discussion that just happened, and some of the sentences that sounded, made me come and set things straight. It turned out somehow that one of our colleagues put everything in the basket, but in fact, the situation is a little different. It is very good that my previous speaker tried to clarify these issues, in part he succeeded in doing so. Like my colleagues who tried to clarify the matter, I am not talking about those people who are running a fuel business at the border. They're known there are either 40, I'm talking about northeast Estonia, 60 or 100. Anyway, there's a list of them, and the numbers of the cars are known. I am talking about a thousand people working outside Estonia and working in Russia every day or several times a week, not only in Ivangorod, but also in Kingissepa and Ust-Lugas. They do because we don't have a job, but we have a family to feed. That's one thing. Secondly, we are talking about border cooperation, we are talking about development. But how can we develop a life without transport? Russia may not need to go once a week, once a month or a year; it needs to go as much as it needs to. We are talking about co-operation in cultural, tourism and many other areas that give our country the benefit as a whole and also our neighbour. I think it is very good that this issue is now standing up sharply and that a solution needs to be found. We really need to think about whether it is necessary to clarify the law so that it is understandable, or whether other normative acts need to be clarified, so that people would like to work and it would be good for Estonia, it would be good for our neighbouring country. Indeed, major problems may arise if people in the region no longer want to work at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U56	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the Chancellor of Justice for finally starting to discuss this complex issue and to clarify something in this story. I have also been approached by a number of people in South-East Estonia, and asked that I defend their rights. These people are insulting when they only go to Russia twice a month and are treated like smugglers. None of them are smugglers, and they're hoping there's some way to find out. Their proposal is, for example, that we should limit our visits to Russia so that those who go to Russia twice a month are not treated as smugglers. It is also offensive to people that they must name their destination at the border. After all, they are actually entering the European Union, and freedom of movement should apply in the European Union. In my view, too, this is a requirement that restricts human rights. After all, border trade is actually a normal process throughout the world; it is happening everywhere. For example, if it were not for Estonia alongside Finland, the income of the Tallink shipping company would probably be greatly reduced and the profits of Tallinn stores would also be much lower. It is caused by different prices in different countries, by different excise policies, by different standards of living. The prevailing excise policy and standard of living are, in fact, the result of state policy. So we should all look in the mirror: perhaps we admit that we have gone a little too far with excise policy. In fact, Estonia could be a country in its own region where everyone should buy. So that there is no opposite tendency for Estonia to go to other countries to buy goods for us. Recently, we read that long-distance drivers are bringing food supplies from Germany all month long. Against this background, I think we've gotten a little into our politics somewhere. No one is protecting smugglers from us, but let's all look in the mirror and regulate this area! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U57	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U58	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of the debate, it sometimes seemed to me that there were two different things being said: one part is about tax fraud and how we have to keep the country from them, so that it can maximise its tax revenue, and the other part is about how to protect people, how to make the legislation clearer, clearer, more dignified. And I am pleased that both the Chancellor of Justice in his report and Mr Stalnukhin pointed out that all the rules that we are talking about must, above all, be decent. I think we need to make a clear distinction as to whether it is a commercial fuel or a private fuel. And instead of arguing who is a criminal who is not, the role of legislator is these two concepts, as I said, commercial fuel and fuel for personal use to be furnished. I believe that the people most expect clarity. Of course, I cannot miss the opportunity to refer to my colleague, Taavi Rõivas, who asked whether we considered it right that a person brings fuel across the border several times a day. Well, you can't do that because the queues aren't what it said here, eight or four hours or 15 minutes. I don't think it can be done purely physically more than once a week. When it comes to other excise goods, be it smoke or alcohol, we have rules in place for them: two packs of cigarettes, one litre of strong alcohol. It is clear to the people that undeclared goods must not be imported. Our goal is to be clear about the fuel, and perhaps many problems at the border will disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U59	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, a line in two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U60	Thank you very much, Madam President. For the sake of the stenogram, I should mention the following. Firstly, tourists do not stand at the border, because for some time there has been a new regime, according to which we have three different queues at the border. One separate line is for tourists. It does not depend on that three-month customs war against the border residents. Secondly, Mr Rõivas gladly announced that the border queues in Narva had fallen to four hours. I just called our company and asked how long the line was. If I were to register for border crossings now, I would have to wait four days. But what my colleague, Mr Clothes, said about me, as if I had defended the fraudsters, is absolutely not true. This is another demagogue of the Reform Party. The country's economy will be destroyed and new ways of pulling people's ears will be sought. Only this can explain the new and new indirect taxes that come into our lives. To believe what the government coalition says here, on whom it depends that this crap ends at the border in the first week, I don't think anyone pays.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U61	Thank you. Ülo Tulik, you have the floor to answer your point of view in the previous reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U62	For the sake of the tenogram, I note that I was referring to tourists who travel by car. To be clear, the one business that was run at the border was the sale of queues. Tourists travelling by car had to buy these places. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U63	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, you cannot now be given the floor as a reply because you have not been mentioned by name, nor have you mentioned your position. Procedural question, please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U64	Taavi Kõivas called me by name many times, so I'm asking for a chance to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U65	Please, you will have the word reply!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U66	Thank you. I, too, want to explain my views in the interests of the verbatim report that I am not a proponent of tax fraud. On the contrary, I'm still on the side that thinks it's right to tax everyone's statutory taxes in the fuel business or whatever other business, but I'm against the fact that we tend to arbitrarily label and treat people ugly in tense situations. All things can be done correctly. In my speech, I made very clear the inability of the Tax and Customs Board to deal with tax fraud, which was large-scale, involving hundreds of millions of kroons. And now they're trying to deal with individuals by being ugly with them. I demand that our citizens be respected by the state. But if they have done something wrong, of course, they must be punished. In this sense, I am strongly in favour of a legal economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U67	Thank you, Madam President. I've been reading this law and other laws for about 13 years. I've learned in my head that the rejoinder is an opportunity to mention your name. That is why I asked my colleague Borodichi to mention my name, and he kindly did so, and I received the opportunity to reply. It now appears that the reply can also be given to the one whose position has been mentioned. Is this something new, or are we going to act like this in the future, on the basis of this precedent, that, if any position is mentioned, anyone who has expressed that position will be able to have two minutes in opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U68	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair in Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U69	It is true that, when someone's position is mentioned in the speech, it is possible to give the floor as a rejoinder, but only once. The negotiations on the first inquiry have been conducted, closing the negotiations. The debate on this subject is closed. Thank you, Chancellor Indrek Teder!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U70	Thank you. Mr Stalnukhin, you will no longer be able to recite the reclining, because according to Article 70 (2) of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, you can only speak back once. You have a procedural question? Please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U71	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U72	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I will start with where the previous speaker ended. He said that there could be certain advantages when living along the border, given the possibility of tax fraud. I think it is unacceptable to say such a thing about the Riigikogu's remote control. Tax fraud is not acceptable in Estonia. Several of the speakers today tried to show this problem, which leaves the Estonian state tens of millions of euros in a year unearned, as a way of life for border residents. However, we know, based on the in-depth information from the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, that this is a thousand cars that regularly crossed the border by regular means not once a month, but rather once a day, or certainly several times a week, and brought thousands of litres of tax-free fuel to Estonia. That means that the fuel was re-sold. People, true, got the fuel a little cheaper, but is that the reason why we should tolerate tax fraud? I am not saying that, because there is no money to finance road maintenance in the same region either. Tax fraud is certainly not a way of life and a person who brings tax-free goods from Russia, be it fuel, tobacco or alcohol, is certainly not a victim. It is entirely wrong to claim that tax fraud can only be carried out by special techniques. Oh, no, tax fraud can be carried out in a purely ordinary passenger car, and it is possible to bring in a significant amount of fuel in the standard tank if you go every day. Volkswagen Passat's older model holds a tank of about 120 liters, the American Chevy Van standard tank even up to 400 liters. And if this is done every day or several times a week, the state will already lose a significant amount of tax money a year as a result of the operation of this one car alone, and this is, of course, unfair competition for honest fuel sellers. Perhaps it is interesting to know that after the tax administration vigorously addressed this problem, the turnover of petrol increased by 40 to 45% on a specific gas station, which has a dozen petrol stations in Võru, Põlva and Tartu, and by 35% on diesel fuel. It was born just after this illegal scheme was cut. A concrete example of how local legal entrepreneurship won much of this. Another result of the tax administration's work is that the waiting time at the border in Narva has decreased, please listen carefully! From 80 hours to 4 hours, 20 times, from 8 hours to 15 minutes in Luhamaa, or 40 times. This is a significant result, which has already led to an increase in the number of tourists. This has also been confirmed by a number of large tourist establishments operating close to the border, such as a specific sanatorium in Põlva County. I do not think that this random check, in which the tax authorities control precisely the thousands of cars that often travel between Russia, is a bad solution. The alternative is to do as in Finland: to measure the amount of fuel in the tank of all cars and buses crossing the border, both when driving to Russia and when returning. It would certainly be much more precise, but I am not sure that we want such a check-up, especially given that border queues are already a problem. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U74	Thank you very much. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U75	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When the Chancellor of Justice was speaking here, his answer was the word 'humanity', which does not sound funny in this Chamber. I am in full solidarity with him on this matter. Life wants to be balanced, and in itself this balance arises. We are members of the Riigikogu and we are meant to pay for representation expenses. We can have petrol paid for our car and cover other costs of about EUR 1000. This is due to certain unpleasantness of the working day, night sittings, etc. I, you, our colleague, Taavi Rõivas, get this because we are members of the Riigikogu. At the border, life has also balanced itself, for when a city stands on the border, it is accompanied by quite a lot of unpleasantness other than trade problems. Those are tens of thousands of cars that will distract you from driving around the city in the winter. They're a lot faster than that. There's always a crime at the border. Those who live near the border must also have certain benefits, and that is how they are taken. We have something unpleasant coming from the border. There are more troubles than anything decent, and that is what balances the situation when people can refuel their car with a little cheaper petrol once or twice a month. In spring, the Special Committee on State Budget Control had an exit session in Narva, and one of the issues we discussed there was the extraction of gasoline from Russia and its commercialisation. And we were clearly told: those who bring fuel to sell it afterwards are 30 to 40 persons, and everyone knows who they are. To ban them from bringing cheap fuel across the border or to start taxing them is no problem at all. These are usually old minibuses made in the United States, with a tank with capacity of 200 to 300 litres of fuel. They're two or three times out of line, so how do they get there? It used to be that way, and there is no difficulty in fighting them. The problem is that another problem has been created for ordinary people living near the border, just as it has been done in other ways in previous years. There are a number of sad stories, there are funny things that don't happen at the border! The peculiarity of the situation we are discussing today is that it lasted several months. For months, the law was broken, and for months, people received no proof that a customs officer had the right to take tax money. I'm asking you, what kind of a word-of-mouth regulation is that? How can an official of the Republic of Estonia even tell a person that such a thing exists? I am deeply grateful to those who initiated this inquiry as Chancellor of Justice. I don't think we can put a stop to this story yet. But a happy ending approaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U76	I therefore think that the IRS is doing the right thing. He is doing a very grateful thing for the Estonian state because he does not allow organised crime, tax frauds, to act. I agree with the Chancellor of Justice on the fact that all activities of the state administration, including, of course, the Tax and Customs Board, must be strictly legal. I am also prepared, as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to do everything in my power to get the support of the law to resolve these problems. In my opinion, the question now is not whether these problems need to be resolved, but how they should be properly resolved. I'll get another parallel. In February last year, which was a sensitive time, just before the elections, I, as the then Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, was criticised when we wanted to deal with tax fraud on the sale of fuel by imposing a guarantee on fuel sellers. At the time, it was VAT fraud, not excise fraud. It was said that all land filling stations would be shut down immediately and all fuel sales in rural areas would be wiped out. Before the elections, this was a very sensitive subject. You know what really happened? As of today, this law has been in force for less than a year and a half, but already during that time the Estonian state has received more than one hundred million euros in additional tax revenue from this sector. The additional tax revenue is more than EUR 100 million! It is EUR 100 million for all kinds of budget expenditure: we can use it for social expenditure; we can use it for educational expenditure. This is important money for the Estonian state, for the Estonian people. Many of you today tried to show tax fraud as an exciting, perhaps even romantic, border lifestyle. I would advise everyone to think about what we could do together to prevent tax fraud from being acceptable in Estonia, but also to ensure that the activities of the Tax and Customs Board, which in itself is a very noble fight against tax fraud, remain firmly within the framework of the laws. We can all help to ensure that the laws are unambiguous and effective in combating tax fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U77	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U78	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It has happened again that I did not intend to speak, but what happens in the hall has forced me to do so. I'm an ex-fuel dealer. Taavi Rõivas was 15 years old when eight trains arrived in Estonia on a nice May day, each with 2500 tons of illegal fuel. When the Tax and Customs Board finally managed to carry out a special confiscation on the face of legal fuel dealers, he did it dirtyly. Ten years later, in this case, the Office lost a tax dispute with one company, paying out EEK 30 million in damages. Taavi Kõivas was 10 years old when I started dealing with the fuel business, so my broom went red when he called those poor people Võru, Valga and whatever regions, organized criminals. Taavi Kõivas, 10 years old, did not know what organized crime meant, and hanging such a sign on his people's chest is an extremely frivolous act in the case of a politician of a government coalition. These people are not driven to deliver this fuel because they are organized criminals, but because the fuel business drives them into poverty. Now I would like to ask in return: what has the Government of the Republic done to ensure that the border areas have the same level of competitiveness as the better regions of Estonia? Let me give you an example. A farmer in Põlva County raises the question that according to the law of the current government, his driver is not allowed to leave until 6:00 a.m. In this way, however, he will not be able to walk within a working day in Tallinn with his load of grain, as we have laws on working and rest periods applied to drivers. This means that his cost of using this car is as follows: he has lost this car for two days, even though he lives only 250 km away from the capital, which is not a great distance. But if you try to tell somebody that this farmer is in worse competitive conditions because he spends double transportation, nobody will listen to you. They say it's some kind of opposition moaning. In fact, our aim should be to guarantee a level playing field for all Estonian entrepreneurs, but the Reform Party and Taavi Rõiva are nowhere to go in pursuit of this. But when it comes to calling people organized criminals, he takes the floor. When he was 10, he didn't know what it was like to stand in front of real thug guns. He hasn't heard of it since he was a child. In Estonia, there was no fuel, and in the technical passports of the cars the stamps were put in, that they had received some amount of petrol, but there were people who came to the country at that time to help and obtained fuel. The next topic is where the Reform Party and Taavi Rõivas were as members of the Monetary Commission, when the oil company and the big fuel companies said that there was VAT fraud on the Estonian market, resulting in a loss of 700-800 million kroons a year. I, knowing how these tax frauds were going, talked, talked, tried to explain, begged, asked for nothing! To be honest, at one point, the question arose as to whether anyone had their own business interests in the game or what happened. Now we are talking heroically about how we have had a situation in which we have had to use for a year and a half, I do not remember how much exactly, but about 100 million euros, which is about 1.5 billion Estonian kroons, which we have always talked about, that it has disappeared. So where was the money? Look, we wouldn't want to meet this kind of cynicism if we were talking about our people. I agree that trade must be organised in border areas, but it must not be done in such a way by cursing its people and, in fact, not ready for dialogue. Now, heroically, by taunting people in some three months, the system has been brought under control instead of acting on a normal and well - thought - out agenda. Now that's something I can't accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U79	Thank you. Taavi Kõivas has an address: two minutes on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U80	Thank you. I do not wish to respond to the rather inappropriate speech of a good fellow official, but I cannot fail to say in the interests of the verbatim report that I certainly have not called the border residents organized criminals. It can be checked by everyone in the verbatim. I referred to tax fraud as organised crime, where, in the interests of a few persons, fuel is systematically transferred across the border and sold on the spot in such a way that the Estonian state does not receive taxes. Whether these fraudsters are local, Tallinn or Western Estonia, for example, is not important. Crime is not something we should tolerate. With regard to the specific oil union proposal, Mr Riisalu is aware that it was the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Two days after I heard about this problem as Chairman of the Monetary Committee, we initiated the takeover of this topic under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, and I was the leading judge of this particular law in the Riigikogu, and this was done. If I'd known this problem before, I'd probably have done it sooner. I think it was the right thing, too, and then you and I stood together, Aivar, to stop this fraud. Now for some reason, you want to stand on the other side and I don't understand that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U81	Thank you. Speaking chair, Ülo Tuliku, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, The production of fuel for sale to Estonia has largely ended and this is definitely the positive side of the whole thing. It was about bringing large quantities of fuel into the country and reselling it, on which the state did not collect taxes. I agree that officials have shown a great deal of incompetence that should not exist, but the objective was undeniably correct. As I said before, the last experience I went to the border was positive. But there are still certain things that need clarity, and I think people are waiting for clarity on this whole thing. One goal is that both the border resident and every other Estonian citizen need to know how many times they can cross the border six times without any trouble and problems. Is it once a month, is it twice or three times? It has to be known. By the way, Latvians have settled the case, and while I was at the border, most of the Latvian cars were in line. In Latvia, fuel can be brought from across the border once a week, and it is clear to people. The second question: is it right to identify the destination and the registration of the owner of the car? It seems to me that this may lead to a situation where border residents write themselves into the farthest corner of Estonia, even from the border. There is always someone familiar, and the goal sometimes consecrates the means. So maybe that doesn't make sense. However, I would like to conclude positively, dear friends and ladies and gentlemen. For five years, I was a farmer, and I saw the embarrassing situation with tourists on our borders. Our guests had to do whatever they could to get back to their country, i.e. to Russia, for hours and even using contacts. The current situation is healthier and let us also assess the positive aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U83	The next item is the inquiry by Neeme Suur, Kajar Lemberi, Andres Anvelt, Kalvi Tõud, Heljo Pikhofi, Rein Randveri, Indrek Saare, Jaan Õunapuu, Marianne Mikko and Kalev Kotkas to the regional minister and local government think tank on 9 October 2012 (No 197) to the regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler. On behalf of the inquisitors, please speak to Neeme the Great.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U84	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ten Social Democrats have signed an inquiry to the Minister for Regional Affairs. The relations between local governments and the central government are of concern to the signatories. The National Government Associations were not known to sign the protocol of the 2013 state budget negotiations between the Government delegation and the Estonian Municipal Associations. This spring, the general assembly of cities and rural municipalities of Estonia adopted a declaration proposing to the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic to change the management of regional, regional and local government and the organisation of the financing of local governments. The Cooperation Council explicitly called for a reform of the state. In September this year, the Minister of Justice, in turn, published plans to develop the principles of state reform. The Coalition Agreement provides for the establishment of a think tank for local governments. In autumn 2011, the regional minister convened this think tank and, as far as we know, the think tank has so far gathered four times. From this point of view, ten Social Democrats have seven questions for the Regional Minister, to which we ask a kind answer. We kindly ask you to read the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U85	Thank you very much. Please respond to the speech chair of Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Riigikogu! I'll answer the questions in order. The first question: 'What are the circumstances in which the Minister of Regional Affairs sees the sustainability of local governments in a situation where the proportion of government spending in public spending continues to decline? ' When you look at the local governments' income base, last year it exceeded the 2007 level. The income base has increased steadily over the past years, with an increase of more than 7% in both this and next year's income base. Next year, the revenue base should be of the same order of magnitude as that of 2008, which was the absolute peak of the boom bubble. Looking at these figures, I can say that the government's steps in managing the crisis in the country were right. Looking at the share of the municipality sector in relation to total economic output, this ratio has been higher in the years of crisis and crisis exit than in 2007, for example. The priority of funds from the sale of structural funds and CO2 quotas to local authorities to make the necessary investments has certainly alleviated the situation of local authorities. I understand the desire of the heirs to compare the proportion of public spending made by municipalities with the total public expenditure, but I think that the comparison with the total economic output is more objective than to examine a percentage of public expenditure. While we can compare the increase in the costs of local governments with, for example, the increase in pensions or defence costs, which have made up a significant part of the increase in public expenditure, this comparison does not tell us much about the sustainability of local governments. The main problem for the sustainability of our municipalities is the small size and fragmentation of many municipalities, as well as the decline and ageing of the population. These structural problems are not solved simply by increasing the revenue base even more rapidly. I dare say that doubling the budget would not solve the concerns of a very large number of municipalities, because people simply do not have enough. The problems in our administration have been highlighted by the various institutions, scientists and also international organisations. The problems faced by municipalities are also reflected in various development plans and strategy papers prepared by almost all ministries. Many of our municipalities have a lot of 'their', but very little 'government'. That is why I have presented possible models of self-government reform to the various parties, including political parties, for discussion. However, returning to the beginning of your question, I would like to say that, in my opinion, reform is indispensable to ensure the sustainability of local governments. The second question: 'According to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, the independent income base of local governments and the role of local governments in shaping their tax revenues must increase. In the light of the State Budget Negotiation Protocol: how does the 2013 draft state budget enable these objectives to be met? 'I would point out that this point in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic is worded as follows: 'In the event of the introduction of budgeting opportunities', I would stress that, in the event of the emergence of opportunities, we will review the basis for the formation of the local governments' income base, taking into account the combined deficit of local governments. As a general trend, the role of municipalities in shaping their own tax revenue needs to be significantly increased instead of today's small local tax revenues, the high share of public subsidies and so-called local public taxes. ' If we look at the summary picture of the current municipalities, we can see that in two thirds of the municipalities there are less than 3000 inhabitants, half of the municipalities have fewer than 1800 inhabitants, while in 41 municipalities there are even less than 1000 inhabitants. It is therefore not a question of tax revenue. As I said, even exponential growth in the income base would not solve structural problems. The OECD report on Estonia's governance in 2011 also states that directing the majority of personal income tax to local governments should be considered if local governments were larger. Above all, we need stronger municipalities. The third question: 'The different versions of the administrative reform are under discussion. In the light of the capacity index of the local governments that have just been disclosed: how would a mechanical merger of local governments increase the capacity and capacity of local governments if there were no substantive changes other than the physical consolidation of local governments, such as the principles of financing? " The size of local governments determines the municipality's ability to perform the various tasks assigned to it in a high quality and reasonable cost. After all, we all understand that a municipality with 500 inhabitants, for example, will never independently resolve the obligations related to upper secondary school education. The result of self-sufficiency is a growing desire to take away your tasks and elsewhere. Therefore, I cannot agree in any way with the view that there will be no substantive changes as a result of accession. Yes, it is! The results of the capacity index that you have referred to clearly show that, from 5,000 inhabitants, the capacity of local governments is increasing. Looking at how the financial situation of the merged municipalities has changed so far, it is clear that the administrative costs of the merged municipalities will decrease and that the money released can be directed towards improving local life. If you look at the accession of 22 municipalities for 16 years, you can see that they have gained advantages and so-called better breathing. However, as long as the municipalities are as large as they are, changing the funding principles will not bring much additional benefit, and as I have already mentioned, international organisations have also pointed out. Question 4: "What is the composition of the municipal think tank, the agreed working routine and the legal status of the regional minister? ' Due to the objective of the Government of the Republic's Action Programme 13, which reads: 'We help to develop and finance a think tank for the development of local governments, where scientists, officials, politicians, self-governance and the free sector meet. ', I launched the local government development think tank in October 2011. So far, as rightly noted, four debates have taken place. At the first meeting of 2011 we discussed the possible activities, organisation and objectives of the think tank and at the first working meeting the representatives of the ministries, the National Audit Office, the Supreme Court, gave an overview of their vision for the resolution of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010. During the 2012 meetings, discussions have been held on the proposals submitted to the general assembly of cities and municipalities concerning the organisation of local government associations and county councils. The last discussion took place on the models, objectives and possibilities of the municipal reform that I have put forward. We received constructive feedback on the progress of the reform, both in procedural and substantive terms. Annika Uudelepp from the Centre for Political Studies in Praxis, Georg Sootla from Tallinn University, Garri Raagma from the University of Tartu, Airi Mikli from the State Audit Office, Tim Kolk from the Supreme Court, Jüri from the Estonian Cities Association, Ott Kasuri from the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, Märt Moll from the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, Kaupo Reede from the Harjumaa Enterprise and Development Centre, Mihkel Juhkami from the Rakvere City Council, Aare from the Heinvee Riigikogu, Rivo Noorkõiv from the Consultation and Training Centre OÜ Geomedia, Sulev Liivik and Andrus from the Ministry of Finance, Viktor Svjatyšev from Jõgeva County Government. Other experts have also been invited, to whom unfortunately the meeting time has not been suitable, such as Ülle Madise, has been invited repeatedly. Since the work of the think tank is not based on the institutional and political views of the members, but on the expertise and experience of experts, we have chosen the status of a round table providing advice to the minister as the legal form of the think tank. Question 5: "What is the purpose and tasks of the think tank? ' The aim of the think tank is to create a discussion between experts and other non-governmental actors on problems and possible solutions in the field and to develop a common vision of strategic developments. If you look at the composition of the think tank, you will probably agree that these are fully recognised and highly respected people in this area. In setting up the Chamber, the following topics were considered to be the most important strategic issues for discussion: opportunities and limits of administrative reform, the challenges of regional administration, the proposals of the OECD report on local authorities, support for the emergence of strong centres, urbanisation and urban development, and their specific features, better organisation and cooperation of public services in local authorities, coordination of sectoral policies and the role of various ministers in regional policy (including national and local school networks, road network, business support, provision of social services, planning), as well as the need to collect and analyse information needed to guide local governments and regional policy. Question 6: "What are the results achieved so far by the activities of the think tank and what are the following planned activities? " After discussing quite a number of think tanks, its members have noted that the fact that different experts sit at a common table and the discussions that have taken place has contributed significantly to the convergence of views and the creation of a common information space. It is considered very important to reach common understanding in a number of important but broad thematic areas in the course of further work. These are the capacity of local authorities, the necessity and organisation of cooperation in the provision of different public services, the assessment of the functions performed by local authorities in the light of the Supreme Court ruling, etc. These are very complex issues and, as practice has shown, without such broad-based discussions, the various parties have a very different understanding. The seventh, last question: 'The Minister of Justice has begun to prepare for the concept of state reform. Does the Minister of Justice's initiative also include the provisions of the municipal reform and, if so, how is the regional minister and the municipal think tank set up with the Minister of Regional Affairs involved in this process? " The publication of two newspaper articles, where the Minister of Justice has expressed his wish to restructure a large part of the state's functioning, has neither the Minister of Regional Affairs nor our think tank been involved. Therefore, I cannot appreciate what has been specifically mentioned in the newspaper articles referred to. If you look at this issue more broadly, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the organisation and organisation of the Estonian public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U87	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U88	Good minister! In the think tank, as far as you've been together and discussed, can you see a movement in one direction or do there sound different opinions from wall to wall?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U89	Depends on the subject. Last time we discussed possible models of the self-government system. We have proposed six models and also described them in concrete terms. You could say there were a couple of models that weren't supported in this company. Neither has the status quo been supported. In this respect, there has been a very scepticism about the two levels, i.e. the formation of a purely complementary level. These opinions were rather about the other options. As far as the timetable is concerned, the general view was that the major reform would not succeed in the next year, but the view was strongly supported that a reform law could be adopted in the course of the year, i.e. before the next municipal elections, which would set out the principles with which the timetable could be followed and on which basis the changes could be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U90	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U91	I will continue with Kajar's question about the same schedule. In this last letter, which sets out the six different models, the timetable was firmly in place and according to this, the Riigikogu should discuss the draft administrative reform law in January 2013. What really should happen to make it possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U92	This timetable was one of the possible and included in this letter with the idea of encouraging thought in this context as well, that it is logical to make major changes in the way local governments are elected in the same rhythm. This timetable had to show that, if there is a clear will, changes can also be made together with the next municipal elections. If you ask what should be there for this, it should be the clear desire of the parties in the Riigikogu to implement this change quickly. If the wish of the political parties in Parliament to move at such a rapid pace is not the one party that has the wish, it is the IRL, but if the other parties are not at such a rate, then I believe that our next goal, as was mentioned in the think tank, must be to set out the criteria. It would be a big deal if people on the electoral lists in the next municipal elections were already debating how they would start implementing innovations in the next four years that would lead to a change in the local government system, as well as what they see their home area in this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U93	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U94	Good minister! You are preparing another plan for the merger reform of local governments. I ask: how does your coalition partner Reform Party feel about this? Why don't you do another empty job?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U95	I have addressed all political parties by letter, and I have also asked the Reform Party for a reply within a month. It is believed that a month is quite a reasonable time to answer simple questions about the way forward and what the party thinks is the right timetable. I'd wait for that answer, and I wouldn't start predicting it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U96	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U97	Dear Minister, Have you discussed regional development plans at national level, such as the Ida-Virumaa Development Plan? These would perhaps be a very good basis for discussing and perhaps resolving the current issues that you have just mentioned. As early as next year, it will be necessary to report on how this region's programme was implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U98	Ida-Viru's new development plan is currently under the leadership of Ida-Viru County Government. We'll see how it's formulated. I would stress that it is still a document on the ground. As far as national plans are concerned, the national plan 'Estonia 2030+' was recently adopted and, of course, we are also taking into account the theories in this letter when drawing up the new regional development strategy. With regard to prevailing positions, our development documents increasingly refer to areas of activity, i.e. areas where a person operates in a conditional triangle: residence, place of work or school and leisure. There is also talk of a scattered living space and the logic of the attraction centres, which naturally also presents its challenges to our self-government system. If our municipalities are within certain limits, which have remained the same in very many places for at least the last 20 years, then during the same period, the range of movement of our people, the area of action has grown enormously and changed. I think that we must also build on this in our development plans. We do not have to force people to move according to how the authorities have ever established their areas of action. On the contrary, public authorities need to adapt and change in response to changing movements of people and changing needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U99	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Regional Minister. We're opening negotiations. Neeme the Great, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U100	Thank you for your answers to the Minister for Regional Affairs. Some of the multiple-choice questions involved several components and some of the components received more attention, while others did not. But anyway, there were answers. At the last moment, the Minister for Regional Affairs said that he had approached the political parties in Parliament with simple questions about what a solution could be and what a timetable would be. Unfortunately, we know that these are not the simplest questions. These same issues have been discussed since the local government system came into existence and the two-tier municipality was abolished in 1993. And so far, there are no solutions. The organisation of local governments, their effectiveness and their relevance to society's needs have been at issue for a very long time. The need for change has been declared by municipalities themselves, several political parties, scientists, lawyers, foreign organisations, as well as successive regional ministers. A common social and political position on how and whether the state's government policy should change at all has not yet been achieved. However, the majority of society agrees on one thing: a change is needed. The Riigikogu should play a much more active role in this process. The activities of the municipal think tank set up by the Minister of Regional Affairs in the autumn of last year are in any case a positive manifestation. The Social Democrats consider it important for the think tank to have a stronger and clearer framework for action with the Minister for Regional Affairs. Its activities should not be reduced to purely theoretical discussions, the minutes of which are held in the ministry on a shelf or on a server alongside similar materials prepared in previous years. It is also important how and how energetically the Riigikogu participates in this discussion. Is it going to be that the proposals are being made somewhere else, and if the Ministry brings the bill to the table, there will be an urgent procedure, it will lead to a disagreement between the coalition, and that is it? At the meeting of the President of the Riigikogu on 25 April this year with the representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, letter No 1797 was handed over, forwarding the documents of the General Assembly of Cities and Municipalities, requesting the support of the Board of the Riigikogu for the development of the Estonian system of self-government and resolving issues that are important for local governments. Among other things, the authors of the letter noted: we consider that the role of the Riigikogu in finding these solutions could be significantly greater and more systematic in the current situation where a number of outstanding problems have accumulated in the development of the local government system and the organisation of regional management. On 10 October this year, the Minister of Regional Affairs addressed political parties, local governments, the President of the Republic, the Riigikogu, the Chancellor of Justice, research institutions and civil society organisations with a letter asking questions about the model of the organisation of the local government and the possible timetable for the implementation of the local government reform. The letter is accompanied by a timetable which would enable the municipality reform to be carried out together with the selection of the local authorities in 2013 and according to which Parliament should process the draft law on the implementation of the municipal reform in January 2013. Clearly, both the general problems of local government policy and both of the above letters require significantly more attention from the Riigikogu. It would be necessary to provide systematic and coordinated feedback both to the Minister of Regional Affairs and to national self-government associations. For this purpose, it is necessary to launch a systematic debate in the Riigikogu on the issues of local government policy. If the differences between the parties represented in the Riigikogu prove insurmountable, they must be fixed and communicated to the parties concerned and the public. It is not appropriate to do so within the framework of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, as a thorough debate on local government policy would cover too much of the Commission's work volume and would start to prevent the other problems that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U101	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U102	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U103	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U104	The most suitable solution would be to establish a committee of problems in the Riigikogu. A committee of problems specifically set up for the Riigikogu could be an effective partner to the local government think tank set up by the Minister of Regional Affairs. The Social Democrats intend to launch such a draft in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U105	Thank you very much. There are no more requests for negotiation, I will close the negotiations. This inquiry is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U106	Next is an inquiry to the Estonian Minister of Culture Rein Lang about the actual cost of renovating the hangars of Seaplanes at Seaplane Harbour, submitted on 24 September this year by the members of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, Aadu Musta, Lauri Laas, Tarmo Tamme, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Eldar Efendiev, Priit Toobal and Ester Tuiksoo. I ask Kalev Kallo to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U107	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Renovation of the hangars of seaplanes at the seaport is certainly a very important event in rescuing and bringing back to life an object that represents the peak of engineering and construction technology at the beginning of the last century. At the same time, there are various complaints in the press about partly unfinished works by the builder, although the contracting authority does not pay for the work done. On 8 August, I addressed the Minister with a written question, to which the replies explained the situation, but in turn raised further questions. I have learned that the final cost of the object is not yet clear, I am thinking of the moment when the answer is submitted. In his reply, the Minister said: 'The final cost of Objekt is clear from the outcome of the legal dispute between the contracting authority's engineer, on the one hand, and the arbitration court of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, on the other. ' At the same time, we know that the long-term chairman of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry is Toomas Luman, the great owner of Nordecon, the contractor of the construction. It is a well-known principle that justice must not only be fair and impartial, but must also appear as such. There are serious doubts as to whether such a dispute is impartial and that the interests of the taxpayer are adequately protected in this dispute. Nordecon has stated in the article "Builder: the Maritime Museum made a rake', published on 13 September 2012, that the claim for additional money has been based on additional cracks. At the same time, the following sentence is stated in point 2.3.2 of the Procurement Document for the Reconstruction of Seaplane Hangars of the Estonian Maritime Museum: "If the volumes indicated in the Technical Specifications documentation are different from those fixed at the drawing or work site, the tenderer shall not be entitled to require changes in the value of the works fixed in the contract awarded. ' Thus, as a contracting authority, the Estonian Maritime Museum has foreseen the corresponding risks and the risks are put on the contractor. The public procurement register shows that the Estonian Maritime Museum has organised three additional public procurements where only Nordecon has been asked for tenders. On the basis of all the above, we have a number of questions that we ask the Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U108	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang, to answer the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Not everyone's in the hall, but what the hell. Question: 'Do you think that the taxpayer's interests in the dispute are well protected in the arbitration court of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, given that one of the arguing parties is the chairman of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry? ' I do believe that the interests of the taxpayer are protected in this dispute. For the sake of clarity, I specify that the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry is not one of the arguing parties. The composition of the arbitration court, in which both the Estonian Maritime Museum and Nordecon appoint an arbiter, will examine the specific matter. Both parties have offered sworn lawyers as their candidates and a judge of the General Court or of the Circuit Court is normally appointed as chairman. The costs of dealing with arbiters shall be borne by the parties to the proceedings and, as such, the impartiality and independence of the arbitration court shall be guaranteed. For the sake of clarity, it should be said that the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry simply organises the administrative affairs of the arbitration court. The second question: 'How many changes have been made to the contract in operation between the Estonian Maritime Museum and Nordecon, and in what amounts have the corresponding amendments been entered into? (We are talking about changes to the contract concluded, not further procurements.)' The answer is quite simple: such changes, which increased the value of the contract, have been the subject of three contracts with reference numbers 126689, 129265 and 134289. The amounts of these public procurements are clearly known to the questioners, as they are mentioned in the above-mentioned questions 4 to 7. Question 3: "What have been the objective circumstances that the contracting authority (the Estonian Maritime Museum) could not foresee at the time of the procurement? ' I would point out that the renovation of the hangars of the Maritime Museum is a unique construction work that you, Mr Kallo, as an engineer, know very well. No such work has been done in the world before, and therefore there is no previous experience that could have been learned from. But let us admit that the result is quite good. As regards the objective circumstances which neither the Maritime Museum nor AS Nordecon could have foreseen at the time of the conclusion of the contract, these were, above all, a much worse condition than expected for the reinforced concrete structures of hangars, as well as other circumstances found during the construction works. Unfortunately, these additional costs were also not identified during previous expert assessments and construction design. Question 4: "Which works were ordered from Nordecon in the negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice No 126689, with a value of EUR 400000? What were the unforeseen circumstances justifying the commissioning of additional work? " Since the next two questions have the same content, I will give the answers to the fourth, fifth and sixth questions at once. In public procurements Nos 126689, 129265 and 134289 almost 100 titles were ordered, the need for which was only apparent during the execution of the works, i.e. they could not be foreseen. The changes were partly due to the state of the site where the renovated object was found, partly due to changes in the design documentation carried out in the course of the work. Most members of the opposition know quite well that a lawyer Jaanus Tehver, a lawyer Neve Uudelt, a nationally recognised expert Leo Rahvamägi and a nationally recognised expert Hannes Kase were set up on 26 January 2011 to assess whether or not additional or change work is justified. I have given an overview of the results of the committee's work, repeatedly responding to written inquiries by members of the Riigikogu. Last time I did it on 20 June 2011. Among other things, Professor Karl Võer's assessment of the additional work on the reconstruction of hangars and the report on the justification of the additional and changes to the panel's work, which also included a list of works, were forwarded to the questioners. Question 5: "Which works were ordered from Nordecon in negotiated procedure No 129265, without prior publication of a contract notice, for a contract value of EUR 475241? What were the additional factors justifying the order for the corresponding additional works? ' That is what I already answered in connection with the previous question. Question 6: "Which works were ordered from Nordecon in the negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice No 134289, the contract value of EUR 176369,18? What were the unforeseen circumstances justifying the commissioning of the corresponding additional works? " I also answered that question by answering the fourth question. Question 7: 'In accordance with the terms of the initial procurement, the contractor had to build a heating system with a heat exchanger pipeline in the sea to heat the hangars of the Seaport. Why didn't the plumbing go off? Is this the reason that the contracting authority should have foreseen at the time of the award of the contract? Did the price of the contract of employment be reduced as a result of the failure to carry out the work? How much cheaper or more expensive did the new heating system go to the Estonian Maritime Museum? ' Here are several questions in one. Let's start from the beginning. It is true that the initial solution to the marine heating system has been changed. Today, the maritime heating chamber of the Estonian Maritime Museum has received many recognition for its environmental and innovative nature. For example, the European Commission chose the success of the Sea heating system of the Seaplane Harbour to represent Estonia in a pan-European information campaign 'Your world. With the climate you love. The Ministry of the Environment recognised the museum at the end of 2011 in the category of environmentally friendly process and last Thursday the Swedish Business Award 2012 was the best environmental project ever made. The initial solution for the marine heating system was discarded in the course of the contract, as the operation of the port area would have been excessively restricted in its implementation. There would also be a serious risk that the heating system would be damaged by anchoring and manoeuvring ships. If this had happened, it would have been very expensive to eliminate the damage. Thus, it was decided to replace the initially designed solution with a so-called "open sea heating system', which does not use the pipeline built on the seabed. At the time of the contract, the Estonian Maritime Museum did not foresee the circumstances leading to changes to the project, and the change in the solution of the marine heating system increased the total cost of the project by 260207 euros. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U110	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U111	Mr. Minister! In reply to one question, you confirmed that the interests of the taxpayer are not at risk in the arbitration court. It could therefore be concluded that the disputes concerning the final cost have not yet been concluded. However, I would like to ask the question: is it still not clear the final cost of the item today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U112	No, it isn't. The disputes will last. The Builder and the Maritime Museum have different views on many matters, so we have to wait until the dispute settlement process is over. It makes perfect sense to argue in an arbitration court. However, this may not be the end of these disputes. When the arbitration court is over, at least as far as I know, it doesn't prevent one or the other from going to court. This could all be a long time. But this is a very complex object, very complex works and big money. And arguing is known to be in the blood of the Estonian people. This is, in fact, a strange dispute where there is debate about the matter, usually in Estonia there is debate before work is started.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U113	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U114	Good minister! This subject is very popular among the people, despite quite a lot of criticism. This is also the favourite of people who live in Tallinn, not to mention tourists. But if you could put together the construction of the Seaplane Seaplane Hangar, what would you do differently today, being a minister? What do you think were the biggest mistakes about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U115	There are so many questions in one that it is absolutely impossible to answer everything on the ground. At the moment, one of the main concerns is that the entire part of the Seaplane Harbour Museum, quite large territory, is standing in the middle of a wasteland to which access is blocked. The city of Tallinn should have been more cooperative and ready to build the roads that have been in the city's overall plan since 2000. I'm thinking about extending the Northern Passage to the Seaplane Harbour. They have not yet been built, and it will certainly press its seal on both the visitation of the museum and the development of surrounding territories as a whole. Certainly, the development of the whole area should have been more coordinated with Tallinn, and this should have been done in cooperation. But it's last winter's snow. As far as I'm concerned, could I have been better able to design, I understand, that's the bottom line of your question? I doubt it very deeply! It is a unique building from the beginning of the 20th century and even more unique is the restoration of this unique building. In fact, this horror, in what condition everything was in, came out only when the scaffolding was upright and the dashboard was cleaned. I'm afraid there couldn't have been any major expertise, because they would have gone terribly expensive. Then we should have built a large scaffolding system in the hangar for expertise alone, then taken it down, and then rebuilt it. That probably wouldn't have made sense. Given the cost of all this item, I dare say that this extra work could not have gone so much worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U116	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much, Minister of Culture Rein Lang! Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U117	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna use the free microphone for five minutes to make two ads.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U118	I'm sorry, I'll cut you off for a second! There are currently negotiations on a final question. The free microphone hasn't been announced yet, I just opened negotiations. Would you like to negotiate? You don't want to open negotiations. Thank you very much, Minister. This item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U119	And now we're going to the free microphone. After a hammer hit, it is possible to register for a speech in a free microphone. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U120	I'm sorry! It seemed to me that when the screen was empty, the questions were over. I'm using a free microphone to make two ads. One concerns the round table, which will take place on Thursday this week at 3 a.m. in our conference room. For seven or eight years, I have taken everyone who has a small interest in teaching the Estonian language to a kindergarten in Narva. It's kindergarten sun, manager Heli Adamovich. I have shown there how, in a place where work is properly organised, children aged 4 to 6 in three years get into the mouth of the Estonian language so that the absolute majority of them will not have any problems at school after that. There have also been many tall guests, but no one wanted to learn a lesson from it. When we last went to Narva with a special committee, we also visited this kindergarten and the special committee proposed the idea of organising such an event already in Tallinn: to bring the staff of this kindergarten to Tallinn and to show them how they are doing their studies, and to explain why it gives such good results. By the way, it's the only kindergarten in Narva where there's a queue, there's no others. On Thursday, at 3:00, this event will take place, and I think that interested people will learn something new about how pre-school language training could be structured. And another ad. Two weeks ago, I was in Strasbourg, participating in the World Without the Nazis Congress. It's an organization with departments in 24 countries. There were 150 delegates and 80 guests. The President of France said his greetings, the President of the European Parliament wished the success of the event, the clergy, the cardinal from the Vatican, etc. The European Commission was also quite represented. When I returned, I saw the news and read something about the event from various sources. The stupid things they didn't say about it! I now announce that during this week, I will be given the materials of this event in electronic form, and by Friday at the latest, I will put them out on my blog. Anyone who is disturbed by the development of Nazism in today's world could view it. The good news is that, according to monitoring, these processes are repeated in Estonia, I would even say that many times weaker than in our neighbouring countries, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania, for example, as well as in countries like Ukraine and Moldova. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U121	Thank you very much. Viktor Vassilyev, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U122	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Doctors' strike lasts and how long it lasts is very difficult to predict. There's a resource. In fact, this strike is managed in such a way that these hospitals and the services where the work has been done in advance strike. The so-called drawer bills are presented and therefore the resource continues. Why is this strike going on, and why is there such a stalemate that it doesn't move here or there? But because it is not clear who the other party to this strike is. Who is responsible for the health care system and who is the one who decides on the salaries of health care professionals? It's not the Ministry of Social Affairs because the Ministry of Social Affairs is involved in lawmaking. He's making us draft laws and welding the Minister's regulations, but he doesn't run health care as such, he doesn't run a health network. The Health Board issues licenses, controls how healthcare is provided, but does not run a health network. The Health Insurance Fund gives the hospitals money, but it doesn't run a health network like that. When a specific question was put to both the Minister of Social Affairs and our Prime Minister in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, who runs the health network, no specific answer came and was pointed to the Riigikogu. And so it's not clear who to negotiate with. Doctors have approached the Hospital Association. The Hospital Association is a voluntary association that connects hospital management, hospital owners. Each hospital is a separate company. Each hospital may determine separately the salary to be paid by its employees. They do not form a single and manageable whole. And that's what they're talking about right now, through the Hospitals Association and the Health Insurance Fund. The Health Insurance Fund can, of course, decide how much money is planned for an increase in wages, but it is not a decision-maker on salary issues. So it's not clear who to negotiate with. It's not clear what to talk about either. The law allows health professionals to require only wage increases in the event of a strike, not changes to the system. But that is precisely what is required. It calls for such changes to be made in the healthcare system so that the system is clearly managed, that there is more money in the system, so that working conditions and working hours are more precisely defined, so that there is not always overwork without pay. But you can't make such claims on a strike, you can talk about pay. At the moment, the Minister has created a working group on the future of health, where these extremely uncomfortable issues are being channelled, and attempts are being made to draw up a document on the future of health, which even includes long-term and short-term objectives, whatever. It's well known to everyone that if you want to drown a few questions, it's a task force. 30 to 40 people go together and discuss at length whether Estonian health care needs to be patient-centred or whether it needs to be family-centred and other very important issues. But, of course, that's not what you should be discussing. Today, the Association of Doctors has once again sent their proposals to the appropriate group, where they are calling for decisions to be made as to who is in charge of the healthcare system. In order to be noted the leading role of the Ministry of Social Affairs, as the lack of strategic management has long been noted by WHO experts. It's all known. To set up funding, i.e. at least the European Union average by 2020. Whether this paper will be discussed or not discussed, we do not know. But, of course, the problems start with the fact that money is not only missing in health care. Money is missing to pay decent pensions, money is not enough for social benefits. It is understood by all simple people, understood by miners and librarians, crane managers and cashiers. There's no money, there's no money, and they could all strike. But they're afraid for their jobs, they don't strike. Medics are not afraid about their jobs, because jobs are widespread both in Finland and us, and doctors are on strike for everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-22_U123	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Today's trial is over. I wish everyone a beautiful evening and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.29 p.m.
