ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 18th working week on Thursday. Dear colleagues, today is the day of mourning in Estonia, we remember the victims of repression with silence. [[The silence of grief.]] I now ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries! Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the delegates of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. The question relates to the fact that we have foreseen a large increase in the price of electricity due to the fact that Estonia is now entering the open market. It is now known that the average cost of being in a nursing home is 500 euros for an old person. Our questions are whether there have been reforms in the Ministry of Social Affairs, how much increase in the price of electricity should result both in the nursing home and in the social sector, and what kind of increase in income support applicants will be expected in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U3	Evgeni Ossinovski, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am submitting to the Riigikogu proceedings a draft law amending the Act on Medicinal Products. I don't know much about the medication myself, but I do know that if you take the medication wrong, it won't do any good. Most of our medicines are sold in so-called Baltic packaging, which contains information in Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian. Nearly a third of the native language of Estonian permanent residents is Russian and it is difficult for them to understand how to use medicines correctly. In our draft, we propose that there is also an officially approved Russian translation in the Register of Medicinal Products, which the person would like to take with him. This will help the government reach one of the goals set out in the Estonian integration plan: to ensure equal opportunities for social coping regardless of nationality, mother tongue and place of residence, which includes improving the availability of information as a public service for people speaking different native languages. At the same time, we would also like to add leaflets for the medicine in English in order to achieve the goals of the Estonian business environment and internationalisation of the higher education system. This will certainly lead to an increase in some administrative burden for the Agency, but not all the medicines leaflets have to be translated, because in other countries this text exists. I hope that in the autumn we can proceed with this draft procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U5	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U6	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on a draft decision aimed at proposing to the Government of the Republic to reform rural governments and to abolish the county governor's institution. Why did we come up with such a proposal? The content of the proposal is as follows: this spring there was a general assembly of cities and rural municipalities in Estonia, where a declaration was adopted, stating a desire to strengthen the level of the county and to end the abnormal situation where there is virtually nothing going on at the county level. If we go back in history, I see a number of former county elders and former colleagues-municipal leaders here, then we remember the time we went to the county elders almost every week together and made very important decisions at county level. Landlords attended a meeting of the Government of the Republic every week. But what happened today? What has happened is that if you ask the Prime Minister for the names of all the country elders, he would probably be in trouble by naming them. The last steps have been such that this level will be further weakened: the organisation of primary health care at regional level will be abolished; it has been decided to transfer the competence of the Health Board; and the draft is being prepared to transfer public transport to the administration of the Road Administration. I'm asking you, what's left? The European Commission envisages strong cooperation between municipalities and, consequently, we propose that, at regional level, municipal associations should be organised in the future, which should be much strengthened. Such a draft decision will be handed over to you and I hope that this draft will have a meaningful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U7	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of ten members of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. This is about what the Auditor General spoke about in this very hall on Monday and about which Juhan Parts was able to give a brief reply in Question Time yesterday. This concerns the costs of AS Elering. Elering is an independent and independent Estonian electricity system operator whose main task is to ensure high-quality electricity supply to Estonian consumers at all times. To ensure security of supply as a vital service, Elering maintains and develops a national carrier network and external connections. The maintenance of the transmission network shall be ensured by means of a network charge, which shall be approved by the Competition Authority on a yearly basis. As the change in Elering's tariff affects the costs of other network operators, the Competition Authority will also adjust the network charges of these other providers on the basis of a fixed methodology. In total, there are about 35 network operators in Estonia, the largest of them is the Elektrilevi Division. All of this will also result in an increase in household electricity bills. On Monday, the Riigikogu replied to the questions of the members of the Riigikogu regarding the draft amendment of the Natural Gas Act by the Auditor General Mihkel Oviir. According to him, the first Estonian-based analysis of the draft amendment to the Natural Gas Act was commissioned by AS Elering. Later, when the draft was already in the procedure in the Riigikogu, two more studies were carried out as a matter of urgency, which was also commissioned by AS Elering. The Auditor General pointed out that such studies must be ordered directly by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications only then guaranteed the objectivity of the studies. We want to know how much these studies cost and why they weren't ordered by the Ministry. How could it be guaranteed that these studies would be impartial if Elering was interested in managing the gas networks? And why are such studies paid for in the form of network charges in the form of electricity bills? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U9	On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and two inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. I will pass on a message that the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkogu. Good fellows! Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up an Estonian tourism and local food support group. The caller is Imre Sooäär, we are awaiting active participation. I will also announce that this summer the plenary session will be renovated in order to replace our voting system. In this regard, I would ask you to review your desks and drawers and take the necessary documents with you. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Let us begin the discussion of today's agenda items.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U10	The first item is the third reading of draft law 202 amending the Forensic Law and other laws in connection with it. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the vote? Dear colleagues, the approval of draft 202 requires a majority of the votes in its composition, and before the final vote we will carry out a verification of its presence. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. Before the final vote, Marko Mihkelson, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U11	George, thank you, but you're not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U12	Good fellow Marko, I think a humorous interlude always creates a different atmosphere in this hall. Thank you. But let's go to the final vote. I will put draft 202 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 2 abstentions and no one opposed. Draft 202 of the Forensic Law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws have been adopted as a law. Today's first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U13	We will move on to the second item, which is the third reading of the Act on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic, the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act and the Draft Act amending the Law on state fees. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us move to preparing the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put draft 232 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 232 of the Act on the Protection of Ambient Air, the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and the Amendment of the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U14	We move to the third item, which is the third reading of the Act amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put draft 229 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 229 Act amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U15	We move to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us move to preparing the final vote. Can we make a final vote? I will put draft 222 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 222 Act amending the Social Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-14_U16	Let us move to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law supplementing the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 216. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put draft 216 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one is against or impartial. Draft Act 216 on supplementing the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been adopted as a law. The fifth item is closed. Dear colleagues, please have your full attention. Heiki Sibul, sitting next to me, has left a serious footprint in the construction and shaping of the Estonian Riigikogu. He has served six members of the Riigikogu. Today he is helping us to hold a regular sitting for the last time, unfortunately. He has done his responsible work calmly, intently, and with greater screaming and screaming characteristic of the Estonian man. He's been a good keeper of this house. He's also a lightning rod. Thank you so much, Heiki, for what you've done! Success and strength in gathering new experiences! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] Good fellows! The third session of the Riigikogu is closed. There is a busy summer ahead, which gives us the opportunity to look more closely at the problems of the Estonian people and find solutions to them. The end of the session was constructively discussion-rich and in many ways effective. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, thank you, good colleagues, for what you have done and wish you a beautiful country summer! Closure of the sitting at 10.21 a.m.
