ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the eighth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to hand over drafts or inquiries? No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 14 November: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. Currently 79 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 22. We shall proceed to the specification of the agenda. Draft law 307 at first reading of the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and related amendments to other laws, and the draft law amending the Law on the matrimonial property register initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the notary's remuneration law and the Civil Status Acts at first reading will be presented by Marko Pomerants, Member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U2	We are going to address the items on today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Auditor for Auditing the Activities of the National Audit Office 2012." Let me introduce you to the procedure. First of all, there is a presentation by the representative of the commission, which lasts up to 20 minutes. Questions can then be asked to the rapporteur. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Then there will be negotiations, where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. After that, the final vote will take place. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the information related to the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Auditor for verification of the activities of the National Audit Office in 2012.' The draft decision is numbered 305. The Finance Committee initiated this draft on 24 October pursuant to § 5 of the National Audit Office Act, according to which the auditor is appointed by the Riigikogu on a proposal from the Monetary Committee to verify the activities of the National Audit Office for the financial year. In 1995 and 1996 and between 1998 and 2004, the economic activities of the National Audit Office were controlled by AS PricewaterhouseCoopers, 2005-2008. The economic activities of AS Deloitte Audit Estonia in 2009 and 2009. According to the decision of the Riigikogu, KPMG Baltics AS auditor Indrek Alliksaar. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meetings. a on 22 October and 5 November. The question of the choice of auditors and its criteria was raised. The Commission has found that, in terms of rationality, one auditor could audit the National Audit Office for three or four years and then an exchange could take place. The Commission shall formulate a position on the appointment of an auditor for the following year after further information on the procedure has been received. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Monetary Affairs also proposes to appoint KPMG Baltics AS auditor Indrek Alliksaar as the Auditor of the Economic Activities of the 2012 National Audit Office. The Commission presented the text of the draft as amended at first reading with a provision on the entry into force of the Decision at the time of its signature. The Commission is making a consensual proposal to put the word 'consensual' to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U4	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U5	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! In the draft decision, you propose to appoint KPMG Baltics AS to supervise the activities of the National Audit Office in 2012. Were there any other candidates? What did the election procedure look like? As chairman of the committee, are you satisfied with the work of KPMG Baltics AS?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U6	Thanks! I will try to answer these three or four questions. Let's get to the back. Am I satisfied? I think it is a question of criteria with which we appreciate satisfaction. If we assess satisfaction on the basis of whether a particular auditor's office has done its job, i.e. whether they have audited the National Audit Office, then I think that if they have done so, it must be satisfied, regardless of what the final opinion is. I do not have any other criteria or any other way of assessing it. Secondly, how did it happen in the past and what is happening now and also in the future? As I said, in the last 15 years, the National Audit Office has audited three audit firms: PricewaterhouseCoopers, Deloitte Audit Estonia and KPMG Baltics. As the obligation to find an auditor's office has been assigned to the Finance Committee, we have asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to specify the additional criteria on the basis of which the auditor can be chosen, whether the lowest price, operationality of the work or some third criterion. We asked the ÕAO to answer that question, and I think it will come in the near future. We have now taken a consensual decision that, since KPMG Baltics has audited the National Audit Office in three years (we have also taken into account the previous results, I am thinking of the previous time factor for other auditors' offices), KPMG Baltics can continue this time too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U7	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U8	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The price is always important for a state order. What is the cost of this audit and what would be the price of the competing firm?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U9	Thanks! You are now essentially asking the same question as I was saying to some extent, from a slightly different point of view. Since we did not take any additional offers this year, it is difficult for me to say what a competitive price could have been. However, four years ago there was a lower bid according to some criteria (I assume it was a lower bid) and it was won by KPMG Baltics. If you are interested in this price, I can specify it and send it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U10	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U11	Thank you. Was it mentioned in the committee that perhaps it would be useful sometimes to order a substantive audit of the work of the National Audit Office? I understand that there is currently a plan to audit their economic activities and their accounts. I don't think there's a problem. But perhaps sometimes you should look into the substance of the matter, whether the audits of the National Audit Office have been carried out professionally, on the basis of the right method, independently, etc.? Has this matter been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U12	Thank you. Is that the question of who controls the controller? I must admit that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not discuss this issue at its last meeting on 5 November. But auditors have certain professional obligations, they have to do their job according to their standards and criteria. I have no reason to believe that their work is of a poor quality. Should we have such doubts, there is always an opportunity to carry out a check on audits already carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U13	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Is there such information, whether or hypothetical, or how many serious audit firms there are in Estonia who work at this level so that you can audit the National Audit Office? How much competition is this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U15	Thank you. That's a good question. This issue was raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. What we assess as to whether an audit firm is credible or not is subjective. Since it is subjective, we must therefore make our decisions as objective as possible. We have therefore also asked the Legal and Analytical Department to give us as precise criteria as possible in the future as we should choose an auditor in the coming years. Are we looking at the price? Are we going to make a targeted offer to three or four so-called serious audit firms? But in this case, what is a serious office? How should we choose this? Such questions have been forwarded to the Legal and Analytical Department. I think we'll have answers soon. This concept of serious acceptance is very subjective.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U16	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U17	Thank you. My question is in the same direction as Mr Aasa's question. We are now talking about the appointment of an auditor for the control of economic activities, but it would actually be wise to consider whether the National Audit Office has remained within the limits of the competences and objectives conferred on it by the Constitution and by the laws, whether its recommendations and assessments have been consistent with its competence and objectives. Someone should look at this side by side because, at political level, this issue is more complex, there may be an element of political assessment or pressure. The competence of the observer would rule out such suspicion and give us a better picture of what the National Audit Office should actually deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U18	Thank you, good Rait! You didn't have a question, that was an opinion. I share your opinion that this is definitely a debate place. There are various audits that can and can be performed. There are not only accounting audits, but also operational audits and audits of operations. It is not obligatory in the context of the National Audit Office, but it is also relevant to the ISO certificates. Indeed, various audits are carried out, although ordinary people are used to thinking only in the context of an accounting audit. This is a debate place, and it can certainly be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U19	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Sven Sester! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Then we shall proceed to the final vote. Does Valeri Korb want to ask you a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U20	I want to take a ten-minute break on behalf of the Centre Party Group before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U21	Ten-minute break. We'll proceed at 10:25.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U22	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the sitting. I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Auditor's appointment to monitor the activities of the National Audit Office in 2012', submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 305. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, with one abstention. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U23	Let's get to the second item on the agenda. First reading of the draft law amending the Public Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party begins. Maret Maripuu, member of the Riigikogu, will present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce you to the draft law amending the Public Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which is based on the principle that the rule must continue to apply to the payment of family benefits, that there will be more support for families who need more help and where there will be more children. The aim of the draft is to support more effectively families with children and families with children living in poverty. No one will be withdrawn from the current allowance and no one will be reduced. The amendments to the bill add additional support to those who need it more and to those who have more children. The bill supports one-off families with triplets or a higher number of multiples. The wider objective of the draft is to improve the well-being of children. The targeted support system makes more efficient use of resources. The amendments to the draft act are a combination of universal and need-based support. At the same time, Estonia has been advised by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Over the course of history, the main objective of family benefits in many countries has been to reduce child poverty or to prevent them from falling into poverty. In most countries, in addition to universal child benefit, there are various additional benefits, some of which also take into account income. For example, the amount of child benefit depends partly on family income in countries such as Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Italy, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Iceland, Portugal, Slovenia and Spain. The amendments to be laid down in the draft act concern about 70000 children. Families in which these children live receive additional money and thus improve their quality of life, well-being and development opportunities. Now I'm going to be more specific about the changes. The draft includes five amendments to the State Family Benefits Act and the Social Welfare Act. Firstly, support for families with children living below the relative poverty line will be raised in two stages. From 1 July 2013, the family with one child will receive EUR 9.59 per month in addition to the family allowances already paid, and EUR 19.18 per month in the case of a family with two or more children, which will double from 2015. According to the latest data of the Statistical Office in 2010, 19.5% of children aged 0 to 17 lived below the limit of relative poverty, estimated to have lived below the limit of relative poverty of approximately 48000 under the age of 18. The need-based family allowance is granted to families who live in relative poverty. The income limit is based on a relative poverty limit based on the international method. Relative poverty rates indicate the proportion of people whose income levels are below the agreed level of relative poverty. In Estonia as in all other countries of the European Union, 60% of the population's median income is used as the limit for relative poverty: 0.5: 0.3 times. Consumption weights are used to calculate income in order to take into account the differences in consumption between household members of different ages and savings from shared consumption. The consumption weight of the first adult household member shall be 1; each subsequent adult shall have 0.5, a child under 14 years of age, 0,3. In order to know the limit of relative household poverty, the limit of relative poverty must be multiplied by consumption weights. Based on the 2010 relative poverty threshold, a family consisting of two adults and two children under the age of 14 will receive needs-based child support if the family's income is below EUR 588 per month. However, if the family consists of two adults, one child aged 14 years or older and one child under 14 years of age, the need-based child benefit is obtained if the family's income is less than EUR 644 per month. According to the draft, the municipality or city government will determine and pay needs-based family allowance, as well as income support. Local self-government is the most appropriate means of determining needs-based child benefit, as it ensures that assistance is given as close to the person as possible. Administration of needs-based child support through local authorities also provides the following advantages: there is a functioning system for collecting income data and identifying households, income and household are identified on the same basis as when determining income support, where appropriate, rapid response, and recent data on both household composition and income are available. The administration costs incurred by the municipalities are borne by the State. The second amendment. From 1 July 2013, the allowance for all families with three or more children will be increased from EUR 57.54 to EUR 76.72 per month and EUR 95.9 in 2015. According to the Social Insurance Institution, at the end of 2011 there were 21606 children for whom third and subsequent child benefits were paid. The number of beneficiaries of the third and subsequent child benefit amounted to 8.5% of all children receiving child benefit. The cost of the child benefit was 21.2% for the three and the next children. The risk of poverty for families with three or more children is one of the highest among households with children due to the number of dependants and potential members of employment. Thus, the relative poverty rate of households with at least three children increased to 25.5% in 2010. Social transfers, including family allowances and pensions, reduced the relative poverty rate of these households by 16.7% in 2010. Compared to households with other children, the relative poverty rate of households with three or more children is high and as a result the child benefit of the third and the next children will increase. Amendment 3. Supplementary benefits, including the need-based child benefit and the additional part of the third and next child allowance, are not included in income when calculating income support. The amendment is necessary to enable families to actually increase their income. Amendment 4. The one-off allowance for triplets and a higher number of multiple births will be increased from 1 July 2013 to 1000 euros per child, i.e. the one-off birth allowance for triplets is set at 3000 euros, 4,000 euros for Quartet birth, etc. With this change, the state will help the family to cope better with an exceptional event such as the birth of triplets or an even greater number of multiples. Amendment 5. Special provision is made for 16-year-old and older primary school graduates to continue to receive family allowances during the summer months in July and August. Under the current arrangements, public family allowances are not paid on a continuous basis for July, August or September following the completion of a child's basic school. If you continue your studies, family benefits are paid retroactively, usually in October. Data from the Social Insurance Institution show that the majority of young people who have completed comprehensive school continue to receive education. For example, according to the Social Insurance Board, there were 191 children in 2011 who did not continue their studies in the same year after graduating from comprehensive school. Continuing to pay public family benefits during the summer months even after graduating from comprehensive school, the families of young people graduating from primary school will be supported even when the new academic year has not yet begun. The costs of adopting the bill as a law are covered by the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. As a result of the changes, the cost of third and next child support will increase by nearly EUR 2.5 million in 2013 compared to today, the cost of needs-based child support will increase by EUR 5 million in 2013 compared to today, and by around EUR 9.9 million in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U25	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions and answers. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U26	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If you look at the bill, the broader impression of it is pretty good, but if you look at it, it turns out that the overall child benefit doesn't go up a cent. If the family does not live below the poverty line, it will continue to receive, as it has for many years, just a little over EUR 19. That money's still frozen. To receive more child support, the family must prove their poverty several times a year and show that they are truly very poor and live below the poverty line, or that there must be a family rich in children. Why do you call it such a resounding child benefit reform? In fact, it sounds about as hollow as the old slogan "Home expenses down."
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U27	Thank you. The draft consists of five points. I would like to emphasise once again that, from 1 July next year, the support for all families with three or more children will be increased. It's done universally. In the case of the first and second children, we are guided by the need.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U28	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, In the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, we can read that the cost of developing all kinds of registers is planned at EUR 72000. My question is this: what kind of action will it take?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U30	Thank you. These are the development costs of STAR.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U31	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! There are still surprises in this bill. At the moment, I was surprised when you said that according to Statistics Estonia, 19.5% of children, or people under the age of 18, live in relative poverty. We know that young people who study in upper secondary schools in older classes and vocational schools, for example, receive child benefit even though they are 19 or 20 years old. As they study, they are beneficiaries of child support. Evidently, the share of those living in relative poverty is similar among them. But if we do that, it'll change the number of these kids. You claim that this bill concerns 70,000 children. If we include these older gymnastics, how many children will this bill affect?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U33	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U34	Thank you. I think we can do math together later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U35	Thank you. Dear waitress, Maybe you could do a simple mathematical equation as soon as you have the numbers. A lot is being said about families with three or more children. Do you know how many families with three children come in a year? We are talking about a major reform now. How many of these families are there? I don't think there are that many families with three children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U36	Thank you. Do you mean the number of triplets born into families or the number of families with three children? If my memory is not deceived, according to the Social Insurance Board, at the end of 2011 there were 21606 children who received the third and next child's allowance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U37	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U38	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the government coalition is to start distributing social benefits on an ad hoc basis. Why should parental benefit not be distributed on an ad hoc basis? I think there's a lot of money out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U39	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U40	Thank you. These are two very different things. One is parental benefit, which is paid to the parent if he or she is absent from work for raising the child, and the other is a allowance paid to cover part of the costs of raising the child.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U41	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, According to the State Family Benefits Act, every child is entitled to child benefit from birth until the age of 16. It is also the way in which these things take place as the child continues his or her studies. My interest is a little wider. Don't mind if my question goes a little out of the framework of this law. In parallel, needs-based support for students will be discussed. There's a lot of debate about things like family and household. It's quite a mess how old they belong to one category or another. The 16th is no longer spoken of, the 21st, 24th or 26th are at issue. It's a pretty big limp. Does it not seem to you that all these categories of age, families and households could be dealt with next, not within the framework of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U42	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U43	Thank you for a very good question. I totally agree with you. When the National Family Benefits Act was created and the terms were introduced, our family models were different. Legal problems have arisen as a result of the emergence of honeycombs, etc. I think that this issue needs to be discussed in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, According to this bill, a family whose members include at least one child receiving child benefit is entitled to needs-based child benefit if the family's net income in one month is, on average, below the income limit of the need-based child benefit. However, the explanatory memorandum shows that the allowance will be calculated on a household basis, as well as income support. In this case, do grandparents, grandparents, etc. belong to the family?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U45	Thank you. The Social Welfare Act provides how income support is calculated. It is based on the household. We have used a similar principle when paying needs-based child benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U46	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U47	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! When speaking with the social workers of local governments, it turns out that many underprivileged families are not ready to go to the local government to write this application. I guess it feels like asking for alms and it has to be done several times a year. How does the government intend to support the development of children growing in these families?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U48	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U49	Thank you. I believe that those people who feel that they need help still turn to the local government. Social workers in local governments should encourage these families to come to the aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Since we started talking about social workers, I have this question. As we know, the draft imposes new duties on social workers. Increased workload should also mean an increase in wages. How much is the plan to raise the wages of local social workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U51	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U52	Thank you. The salary of local government employees is increased by the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! This draft will be implemented in two sections, the last section in 2015. Does this mean that children's allowance for families with one or two children will not be increased for another three years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U54	Thank you. I hope that our economic well-being will thrive and then be able to come back to all the subsidies. What is now being proposed has been done on the basis of current calculations, making sure that we are able to fulfil our commitments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U55	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Everyone who has worked in a local government has the experience that on a nice day, the state either stops providing a service or places it on the local government. In the first case, in order to continue to provide the service, the local budget must be used for this purpose. In the second case, however, even if compensation is allowed, usually after a year or two no one will remember, and once again the local government will pay for the administration. You put in the bill that the administration is dealt with by the local government. Did you, however, discuss any other options?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U57	Various options were discussed and an overview of them is provided in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U58	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U59	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your long presentation of the draft, there was a list of countries which, in the opinion of the initiators of the draft, the Reform Party and the IRL, set an example for Estonia. Countries such as Cyprus, Spain, Portugal and Italy were my ears. But I don't think that was a complete list. Can you repeat that list?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U60	Please! Examples were Cyprus, Czech Republic, Italy, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Iceland, Portugal, Slovenia and Spain. If you want to learn more about the models of these countries, I will tell you that the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has made an overview of child benefits in European countries. There you can see the opportunities that exist in European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U61	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U62	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Population scientist Mare Ainsaar has written that although there is no doubt that all children have needs, it is the impression that those talking about needs-based policies are more about poverty support. Poverty benefits exist independently in Estonia. After all, income support is poverty support. It would be wrong to confuse these two things: child support and income support. If we look at the countries supporting children on the income principle in Europe, it is clear that they have not been very successful in maintaining the birth rate. It would not be wise to test this in Estonia with a small population. I didn't hear you mention any research. Why did the IRL and Reform Party not listen to scientific advice when developing the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U63	Thank you. When we make proposals, we must always be guided by real opportunities. Our draft is a combination of need-based support and universal support. From the third child, we will increase child benefit equally for all. In the case of the first and second children, we have been guided by a need-based approach. It is also known from history that needs-based subsidies have been used in several countries. Of course, if our country's well-being increases, there is certainly hope of moving forward from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U64	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! If you do not have time to answer my question, you may be able to explain why there is such indifference to this item on the coalition side. I only see three people in this coalition. But here's my question. As we know, the parents of the triplets approached the Riigikogu in the autumn and pointed out that the birth grant does not in any way cover the financial costs incurred by the birth of the triplets. On the basis of which analysis was the grant for the birth of triplets increased to EUR 320? Why has it not been raised to the limit of what was in the proposal of the parents of the threesomes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U66	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U67	Thank you. The grant for the birth of triplets was increased to EUR 3000.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U68	Thank you. Good waitress! In Estonia, children have always been wanted to compartmentalize and have also been done. In particular, we have seen this in the case of parental benefit, and now we are also going to do this in the case of child benefits. In essence, those asking for alms will receive more support. At present, we should talk about subsidies for vulnerable families and do so in the context of the Social Welfare Act, rather than call it a resounding reform of child benefits. Why do we still not have the priority of child support, as you have said? Why are you offering such humiliating solutions now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U69	Thank you. I repeat once again that the draft is a combination of an increase in universal subsidies and needs-based subsidies. From the third and more children, all will receive child benefit. In the case of the first and second children, we rely on the need, or support, for those who need more help. By raising subsidies, we must always look at the possibilities of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U70	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U71	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I can't resist the temptation to start doing math with you right now. I just contacted the Tallinn Education Department and found out that there are about 3000 gymnasts over the age of 18 in Tallinn. If we assume that the percentage of the poor is roughly the same among them, or 19.5%, then we will have quite a few hundred poor children. If we also consider Estonian Maritime Academy, Tallinn Service School, Kopli Vocational School, all kinds of vocational schools, we will receive 1500 or even 2000 children in Tallinn alone, who are not included in your draft. If we look at the whole of Estonia, it turns out that this mistake can be very big. When can we do this math class? Are we going to re-distribute the amount of money you have planned or how are you going to correct this mistake? I'm asking you to answer me!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U72	Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U73	Thank you. Every bill needs three readings to become a law. After the first reading, all members of the Riigikogu can propose amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, According to the initiators, the relative poverty rate for children is estimated to decrease by 2%, but is expected only in 2015. How does the coalition plan to support families with children living in relative poverty in the next two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U75	Thank you. Our plan is set out in this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U76	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Your party partner, Ivar Unt, made a proposal a few years ago when he was mayor of Valga, to reduce pensions. There was an opinion on the subject at Postimees. At the same time, the leaders of your party and the whole coalition have often said that a number of grants should be needs-based: child support, funeral allowance, and school food have also been discussed in this context. Have you not discussed that perhaps the coalition will also make pension needs-based, and if you have discussed what it might look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U78	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U79	Thank you. I think a good questioner could first explain to himself what pension is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U80	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Initiators plan to increase child benefits to half in 2013 and the rest in 2015. Since it is by chance that there are elections in these years, I want to know whether the planned increase in child benefits is needs-based or whether it is political technology-based.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U81	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U82	Thank you. If you read the draft, you will see that there are reasons why the support of families with third and more children is increased and why the support of the first and second children is increased on an ad hoc basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U83	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, You claimed that the local government had to find money for administration costs. So far, it has always been that if the state imposes an obligation on the local government, it will also secure money for it. A good example of this is the exemption from the tax on homeland, where local authorities will receive EUR 1 million next year to cover administrative expenditure. Don't you think you're hurting local authorities with this bill and putting additional obligations on them that they don't have any money for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U84	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U85	Thank you. You probably didn't listen to me exactly. The draft states that the administrative costs of local governments will be reimbursed. If you have asked your question on the basis of the question of Eldar Efendiev, how much the wages of local social workers will be increased, I will say once again that the state cannot raise the wages of social workers, so will the local government. But the administration costs are covered by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, This bill is, of course, deeply political. It is only about the election year and the moves that the government coalition should do, given that there will be elections in 2015. Most of the provisions of the draft will enter into force in 2015 in particular. But that's it. The specific question is as follows. Let's go back to their administration costs. When I look at the bill, I see that there is some kind of financing for a register and something else. There are over a thousand children's families in my hometown, with more than three children. What kind of money can all Estonian municipalities count on how much money they get from the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U87	Thank you. When we discussed this issue in the Commission, representatives of both the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Governments took part in the debate. At the moment, the Ministry of Finance is working with the local government associations to clarify the price of this one operation. I believe there is an exact number for second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U88	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U89	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I will continue on my first question. It is quite true that improving the demographic situation is one of Estonia's most difficult tasks. It is certainly also the fact that family poverty and economic uncertainty are among the factors influencing birth rates. Here's my question. On the one hand, we are taking those countries which, in the opinion of the Reform Party and the IRL, are Estonia's role models - Cyprus, Spain, Portugal, Italy - with income-dependent differentiated child benefits - and, on the other hand, those countries which, according to social democrats, could be Estonia's role model - the Nordic countries with universal child benefits. When comparing these two groups, which group of countries has had better demographic trends in recent years and a higher birth rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U90	Thank you. There are two sides to our bill. We are universally raising benefits for families with three or more children; we are raising support for the first and second children on an ad hoc basis. This is primarily due to the economic opportunities of our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U91	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U92	Thank you. Dear waitress, Maybe you'll try to answer a little more. Your answers remain very superficial. I will return to the reform of child benefits. If you look at the budget, you can see that you have completely forgotten most of the children. Ministries gain more than 4% of their operating or administrative costs, doctors get a big raise, etc., but the majority of child support remains exactly the same. What reform can we talk about so much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U93	Thank you. When we're talking about a raise, I assume most people have children, and that's how the kids get extra from the raise. After all, the idea of family benefits is to partially compensate for the cost of raising children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U94	Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The draft will enter into force in the second half of next year. It is also necessary to provide for resources. How much resources are foreseen? The bill does not include how much money is needed for this and how much money the Government of the Republic has for local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U96	Thank you. This is the first reading of the draft. As I said, Star's development comes from the state and local governments are compensated for administration costs. The exact number will certainly be given in the second reading explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U97	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U98	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! There are certainly a number of very good points in the bill, such as the fact that child benefit is also paid to comprehensive school graduates in the summer months, the increase in the allowance paid in the event of the birth of triplets and the increase in the allowance from the third child onwards. But it is precisely the benefits of families with two children that cause concern. If there are two parents and three children in the family, but the third child is a student, only two children will receive child benefit. If the student receives support, there may be a situation where the student's need-based education allowance causes the other two children in the family who live below the poverty line not to receive needs-based child support. Has this been considered and maybe there is also a change in the basis for calculating subsidies here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U99	Thank you. As I said earlier, this is the first reading of the draft and all good proposals are welcome. It is certainly worth the serious debate in the Commission on the subject that has been raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U100	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, What was the cooperation with social workers or local authorities in developing this bill? Have you had any negotiations or conversations with local government associations? Please, explain these things!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U102	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U103	Thank you. A round table was held with representatives of local governments and representatives of organisations dealing with children's rights issues. The draft was also sent to local government associations for their opinion. They have delivered their written opinions. We have already met them once in the Committee on Social Affairs. Specific proposals for the draft were received from the municipal associations. So there's cooperation. Their suggestions and advice are very valuable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U104	Thank you. Honourable waitress! During the preparation and processing of this draft, very much has been said about direct and outright child support and now needs-based support. But one type of support has been forgotten. This has perhaps received little attention in this context. This is a tax exemption that every parent receives from another minor child. Can you confirm from the speaker that this type of support, which also means, for the recipient of the minimum wage, 30 euros (calculated as income tax) to be refunded each month for another child, is and will be available to all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U105	I can confirm that. I hope that no one will have the idea of making the legislative amendment that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U106	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the State Family Support Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act 294 before today's first reading in two sessions. The first meeting was held on 25 October and the second on 5 November. On 25 October, the previous speaker, on behalf of the initiators of the Maret Maripuu draft, presented the draft in detail. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs were also present. During the discussion, it was decided to continue the debate on the draft law on 5 November with representatives of local governments and the Social Insurance Board, and it was decided to invite a number of partners dealing with children's and families' issues. It was also decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 13 November (the decision was consensual), to propose that the first reading be closed (the decision was consensual), to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 20 November (the decision was also consensual) and to appoint Margus Tsahkna (the decision was also consensual) as rapporteur. Many partners of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu were invited to the meeting of the Social Committee on 5 November. I give an overview that this draft has been discussed before the first reading with representatives of several organisations. Child Interest Protection Koda was represented by Merike Kaev, Alar Tamm was present from the Children's Protection Association, and Hille Ilves, adviser to the Estonian Association of Cities, Aage Õunap, representative of the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families, Ott Kasuri, Managing Director of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, and Kristiina Räälk, Head of Pension Policy of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Officials of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs were also present. There was quite an in-depth debate. The position of the government, which supports this draft, and also the position of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, which is attached to the materials in writing, were heard. The previous speaker, Maret Maripuu, gave an overview of the problems that have arisen in connection with this draft, and you also asked about these problems. The problems are more of an operational nature, especially as regards household accounts and the increasingly widespread honeycomb model. The problem is how to take into account needs-based child support when there are children of different parents in the family. I see that the Commission has to work very hard here before the second reading. In all likelihood, we need to change the draft in order to ensure that the need-based child benefit is granted in the best interests of the child. At present, there may be situations where there are children of different backgrounds in the household, one being a child of one parent and the other being a child of another parent. In the present sense, it is as if two children were not living in the family, but both parents had only one child. As Maret Maripuu said, this is a bit broader, but we certainly have to deal with this issue during the discussion of this draft. The second issue that has been raised concerns the payment of maintenance payments. The municipality has the possibility not to pay child benefit on a need-based basis if the parent has not claimed maintenance allowance from the other parent. This issue must be discussed separately and the practical practice examined. Member of the Commission, Helmen Kütt, gave examples of what this practice is and how officials interpret the law. The Social Affairs Committee has asked for the position of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu on all these topics so that before coming to you with the draft at second reading, we can discuss the implementing topics and, if necessary, supplement the draft with amendments. But the purpose of the bill is noble. I hope that, as a result of the joint work, we will be able to work through the draft as well as possible and implement it from 1 July next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U108	Thank you. Let's get to the questions and answers. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U109	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! In any case, it must be acknowledged that at least the first step after years of stagnation is to make child benefits. But my question continues with the question of my benchmate Kalev Eagle, concerning political technological aspects. Since this bill is still born in cooperation with coalition partners, I ask: is it by chance that the elections will follow the two dates of implementation of this law, or is it by chance that these dates will be before the elections, 1 January 2015 and mid-summer next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U110	Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U111	Thank you, good questioner! You have a very good overview of when the elections will take place. I can say that the drafters certainly were not based on this, but, above all, on the need to alleviate child poverty. I agree with your benchmate, who mentioned in her question that the elections will fall randomly over these years. I agree that this is happening by accident.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U112	If a student could come up with an assignment for a coursework to come up with something against child poverty, and he would come up with such an idea, then the faculty would give him a grade because the student has not made the basics of social policy clear to himself. There must be a reason for everything. This new, additional support does not count as income when applying for income support. Why, then, does this other, which is not additional support, count?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U113	Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U114	Thank you, good questioner! I can't comment on the first part of the question. It must be done by someone who is a lecturer, and by someone who is a student. Yes, indeed, I must admit that it would ideally be very good if all child support was not included in income support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, At the time, the initiators provided EUR 1 million for the information work related to the adoption of the parental pension. What is the planned cost of communication on this draft and what should this communication involve?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U116	Thank you, good questioner! We had the same question at the second meeting of the Commission, on 5 November, when the officials of the Ministry of Finance were also present. The representatives of the Municipalities Association and the Cities Association said that the implementation of this draft requires quite thorough training of social workers so that all cases can be worked out. The officials of the Ministry of Finance confirmed that the money was intended for this purpose. The exact amount of this money will be revealed in the following work. I would remind you that today is the first reading of this bill. However, the assurance is that the tools for both training officials and informing people are provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U117	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! According to the draft, parents in the Social Welfare Department must prove that they live in relative poverty on a quarterly basis. A single - child family should do so in order to receive an additional EUR 9 and 59 cents a month. Do you expect EUR 9 and 59 to be aid for which families living in relative poverty show a 100% interest in receiving this support? It should be taken into account that many families live quite far from the social welfare institution and that bus travel costs a lot of money. Do you think that's an important amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U119	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, this draft law will apply from 1 July, but will achieve its full effect from 1 January 2015. If you look at the tables in the explanatory memorandum, it turns out that the child benefit of a family receiving child benefit based on needs is changed as follows: for example, a family with two children who currently receive EUR 38.36 will receive EUR 76.72 and a family with four children will receive EUR 268,52 instead of the current EUR 153.44. These differences are much bigger than that nine euro alone. But in the case of one child, the lowest increase, the need-based increase, indeed, is just over nine euros. This rise will take place next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U120	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U121	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Children's benefits from the state are currently included in the income of families for the purpose of granting income support. The Social Democrats have proposed to exclude them from income on four occasions and you have rejected this proposal in the Riigikogu for four times. If you really wanted to help children on a need-based basis, you could have done so a long time ago, especially in difficult times when unemployment was high. Children may have had to go through this with 61 euros for years. Why is it now that you have the terrible desire to introduce needs-based child support, couldn't you have started over and excluded 19 euros from your income?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U122	Thank you, good questioner! I would remind you that, in addition to the needs-based child benefit for the first and second children, this bill will almost double the third and each subsequent child's allowance, which is universal and which is not to be applied for by 2015. I can also say that from the very original idea of needs-based support for children, very significant progress has also been made in the fact that none of these subsidies, which are now added, are included in the calculation of income support. In fact, there has been a shift in the political line towards positivity. I think that the Social Democrats should be particularly happy with this draft and support it. I'm sure you have your suggestions. I hope that the Riigikogu will be able to count them as much as possible, according to what our economic opportunities are.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U123	Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U124	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, In the explanatory memorandum, we read that these amendments are in line with the OECD proposals made to Estonia by this organisation. At the same time, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has also made other proposals on how to alleviate the situation of people living in poverty. In the tax area, too, they have made certain proposals to ease the tax burden on people on lower incomes. Have you also considered that certain changes could be made to the tax system in order to alleviate the situation of families living in poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U125	Thank you, good questioner! Under this draft, the Committee on Social Affairs did not discuss any changes to the tax system. As far as recommendations are concerned, the recommendation is that we apply needs-based, both financial support and service-based support alongside universal support. In fact, this part remains for Estonia to be able to provide needs-based services specifically for children and families living in poverty, which are often more useful than only by increasing financial support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U126	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U127	Good waitress! You're a man with a head open. According to paragraph 225 (1), a grandmother's pension is taken into account when the need-based child benefit is paid if she lives with her granddaughter. Are there also plans to achieve needs-based pensions that take into account the allowance paid to the child?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U128	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U129	Thank you. The basis for the need-based child benefit in this draft is the same as the basis for the income support. They're totally the same. However, a specific issue arose, which was raised by Helmen Kütt, which concerns the education allowance system in the Riigikogu. I'm thinking about the argument as to whether or not student benefits are included in income support. My position here is clear: student benefits should not be included in income in the calculation of income support in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Please help to explain § 226 (3) of the draft, which states that the applicant for child benefit will submit an application to the municipality or city government whose administrative district he or she resides permanently or permanently. What is the difference between permanent and permanent residence? Is it possible to construct a permanent but not permanent residence somewhere and to live permanently, but not permanently?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U131	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U132	Thank you, good questioner! I will prepare a more comprehensive response before the next reading. That's a pretty good question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Within the framework of this draft, it is always said that support for larger families and the vulnerable must be increased. However, child benefit has remained the same for ten years. The price increases have almost wiped it out. What consideration will then be given to the creation of a new needs-based child benefit, but will not increase the existing child benefit paid to all children?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U134	Thank you, good questioner! If you read this bill carefully, you will see that the bill states that from the third child of the family, universal child support will be increased for all. When applying for it, you do not have to prove your income, but it is universal child benefit. The reason for this is that families with two parents but three or more children are at risk of poverty. The very clear position of the drafters was that universal child benefits from the third child of the family should be substantially increased. I agree that child benefits have not been increased in Estonia for years and that they certainly need to be increased in the future, both first and second child benefits and universal benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U135	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U136	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! I remember what was said in the Commission was that if parents are divorced, this could be an obstacle to need-based child support. The committee said that the mother had to go to court against her father and ask for a living there. The problem was that Father was often lost in the expanse of foreign lands, and it was good to fight in front of a child. At the time, the matter was unsolved. But have you, as chairman of the committee, discussed this matter with representatives of the initiators of the draft at a later stage?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U137	Thank you. As I said at the beginning of my presentation, indeed, the issue of maintenance was a separate debate in the Commission. One specific situation for which there is a fixed demand for maintenance is that, unfortunately, we really have to appeal to the court. We also discussed in the Commission that it is essential to deal with the issue of maintenance money in order to have fixed 'early stages'. This shouldn't be the only way to go to court. On the other hand, if parents really divorce (which, unfortunately, has become increasingly frequent in Estonia), they should receive both legal advice and advice at an early stage for reaching an agreement between themselves so that the issue of child support does not become decisive when determining needs-based child benefits. We have also submitted further questions to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which practice has developed on this topic and what the current laws provide for. Before the second reading, we can form a clearer position here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U138	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U139	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. I understand from your answers that very many problems have been left unresolved in the draft. You mentioned families where the parents were divorced before. There are also many families in Estonia where divorced parents have found a new partner. These honeycomb families can have many children, such as two children of one parent and two children of another parent. I get the impression that this bill is not very clear on how child benefit is paid when there is one family with two of my children and two of your children. Does the current law then take into account that two children belong to one parent and two to the other, and there is no need to expect any increase in child support, or do you understand otherwise? How should a honeycomb share in the growth of child benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U140	Thank you, good questioner! The way our families and family models have changed over the years is not only a problem with this draft, but a wider problem. As the representative of the initiators, Maret Maripuu, said, we probably will not be able to do so in the framework of this draft, but we will have to review in the near future everything that concerns family allowances, including a description of family models, and this whole issue. After all, the goal is to help children and people in distress, based on the reality of the situation. In this sense, the draft will provide solutions to these issues. There's a lot of options. We have discussed in the Commission what these models may be. For example, the same option you mentioned when the family has four children in general, but two children are one parent and two are the other. In this case, the current system does not consider this to be a family of four children. This may not be in line with the will of the legislator, but these are the laws now. I think that this is a more fundamental and bigger issue that the Riigikogu will have to deal with and do so in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U141	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! I remember that this problem was discussed in the Commission that if the graduate is 16 years old, he will continue to receive support during the summer. In the old days, it was not paid until the young person entered the upper secondary school or went to work; now the payment will be automatically continued during the summer. Of course, one might ask if anyone knows how many 16-year-old elementary graduates there are, how many of them go to work and how many do not go to work, and what costs this entails for the state budget. But I am not going to ask you this number, I am asking you something else: if such matters are being discussed in the committee, will the content of these discussions also be presented to the drafters, or will they be told that 5 were in favour and 4 were opposed, the draft will go to the hall and it will fail itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U143	Good questioner, I didn't quite understand the question. The representative of the initiators of the draft act was at the table at the Commission and presented this draft. In this sense, the content of the debate was fully accessible to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U144	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum says that this law increases the work load of a rural elder. In the future, the mayor has the right to decide whether or not the local authority's support has been needs-based and the person has the right to lodge a complaint with the county authority. Can you explain how this argument will be settled? Is that what the mayor does? Is there a commission being set up under a rural elder? How is this going to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U146	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U147	As you can see, there are no legal provisions to change the country's work. In this sense, his work remains the same as it is now. The law provides that it is responsible for the procedures for monitoring the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U148	Thank you. As we all know, Estonia was last year and is also the country with the fastest price increase in the euro zone this year. The increase in electricity prices next year will further increase the price increase. I see that the initiators of the draft have written solemnly here that the aim of the draft is to support children living in poverty more effectively. More broadly, the aim is to reduce child poverty or prevent them from falling into poverty. To achieve this goal, children living in poverty will receive an additional €9 and 59 cents next year. Would you, please, present these calculations of how exactly EUR 9 and 59 cents will bring the child out of poverty? What more can one family afford a child for EUR 9 and 59 cents? Is it intended to compensate for the price increase or to compensate for a service that the family could not yet afford the child?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U149	Please, Kadri Simson, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U150	Thank you, good questioner! You only took out one small piece of this bill. If you look at Tables 1 and 2 on page 13 of the explanatory memorandum, you will see that these figures are much higher. In addition to the needs-based support of the first and second children, this draft significantly increases the universal support of the third and the next children. In addition, the grant for triplets and a higher number of multiple births is tripled. If you look at these figures, for example, the child benefit for families receiving child benefit based on needs will increase from EUR 153 to EUR 268 for families with four children. In this sense, this change is much higher than EUR 9.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U151	Thank you very much, Kadri Simson. This is not a procedural question. In 99% of cases, the respondent decides for himself exactly what he or she will respond. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U152	Thank you. My question concerned a needy family with one child. The answer didn't answer my question. I would ask the Commission's rapporteur to answer the question that is being asked. Why does a needy family with one child receive EUR 9 59 cents? What does it cover? Is there any calculation of whether there is a service or whether it should compensate for any price increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, We have a development plan for children and families. How is the current proposal to amend the payment of child benefits reflected in this development plan? Is this consistent with the development plan or is there something else in the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U154	Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U155	Thank you, good questioner! The development plan broadly states that, alongside universal child support, needs-based support, both financial and service-based, must be implemented. In this sense, this change will certainly coincide with the broader objective of the development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U156	Thank you. Good waitress! To be honest, I am quite bleaked and saddened by some members of the opposition when talking about the reform of child support. It seems to me only reasonable that, if it is possible for the country to double the support of children in need, or to give more than EUR 4 to all, which is the same financially, then, of course, children in need should be helped first and foremost. I believe that this will also provide an opportunity for future increases in subsidies. Do you, a good waitress, understand where the opposition's sharp attack on this very positive and good bill comes from, I think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U157	Thank you, good questioner! This attack is coming from my view on the left side of the hall. I understand exactly which side it comes from, it doesn't come from the right side. But I want to thank the members of the Social Affairs Committee, regardless of which party they are. In the Committee on Social Affairs, despite party or party membership, quite a number of questions have been asked, in particular, on implementing issues, and we are certainly looking for solutions to them. But if we look more politically, then, indeed, for ten years no child benefits have been raised. Today I am here before you with this bill, which raises child benefits. The volume of this draft, when it is fully operational, will be more than EUR 20 million. There is no point in talking here about just one small part that concerns nine euros. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that all the other subsidies provided for will remain. I'm absolutely sure it's not gonna be the only step. I really call for a positive view of this. Politically, we are on the right path. I hope that you will all support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U158	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U159	Thank you! Honourable waitress! Unlike Taavi Clothes, I would very much like to congratulate you on the fact that we in the Commission are talking about matters in substance and there is no limit between who is in the opposition and who is in the coalition. It is very insulting to hear such comments from the younger but older Taavi Rõivas in his political career, regardless of age. But here's the question. At one time, there was such a procedure for calculating income support that families with children who had completed the income support received additional money when the income support was formalised. They didn't have to file it many times. Let us put third-child support aside, talk about first- and second-child support, i.e. needs-based child support. This would certainly avoid additional training costs, only the STAR programme would need a little improvement, and it would certainly also prevent multiple entries from local governments if one grant had to be transferred by the 10th date, but income support after the 20th date.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U160	This is a very good point, because increasing the administrative burden is not in any way the aim of this draft. I'm sure we could talk more about it with the local governments before we read the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U161	Thank you. Please, Tavi Cloth, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I did not understand the context in which the previous questioner mentioned my name, but I would like to overconfirm that I, too, have only congratulations to the Commission on this draft. I think that the work you have done to clarify the details of this reform is certainly important. I'm glad it's gonna be the law soon. But here's what I'm gonna ask you. What are the options for the Social Affairs Committee to address these issues in the future? Are there also national initiatives on how to improve the provision of services in addition to grants, which is a very legitimate question, and which trends can be chosen here by the municipality and which country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U163	Thank you. A working group has been set up in the coalition, which first developed the draft before you. This applies to financial child benefits as of next year. The processing of this draft is also related to the state budget procedure for the following year. But we certainly need to move on to those issues that primarily concern parents raising children on their own and child support. It is precisely the service side that must be dealt with in cooperation with the municipalities. The Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing a very fundamental change, in fact, a new Child Protection Act and other implementing acts, so that we significantly improve the provision of services specifically to those children who need this help. On the one hand, financial support for families is certainly important, but on the other hand, services are important. Regrettably, parents raising children alone are indeed in the most difficult situation in Estonian society today. For them, the issue of getting a living is one of the most painful. The other group we need to pay attention to are families with three or more children. Even if both parents work and receive average pay, their situation is difficult. In my opinion, our question of honour is that, above all, we would significantly improve the economic situation of children growing in these families.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U164	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I am also very pleased that the draft reform of child benefits is on the agenda today. The day is all right. I am also pleased that the opposition has had many questions for both the previous and the current rapporteur. Obviously, everyone's goal is to understand what this reform of child benefits entails and to be able to explain it to people. Many questions have come from one side of the hall, much less from the other. I ask: can you tell me how many times the Reform Party Group and the Isamaa and Res Publica Group have discussed this reform in separate working groups before it came to the agenda as a draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U166	It's very hard to say how many times exactly. 12 to 14 times, I think. But the issue of child and family benefits has not been on the table for the last few months. We have all been arguing about these issues all the time. I think that these are issues on which there is, in some ways, a consensus, regardless of the outlook. We all understand that the situation of children and families is a matter of national importance for the survival of the country and the people. The question is simply what are the possibilities and concrete methods to move forward on this issue. One possible solution is in front of you today. I count on this solution, after the very serious work we do here together, to receive the support of the entire Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U167	Thank you. Just in case, I'm asking if Heimar Leng has a procedural question. In total, only two questions can be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U168	No, I don't have a procedural question. I'm okay with the procedure right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U169	Can't I ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U170	Did you have a procedural question? No third question can be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U171	Got it. Thank you very much. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U172	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I will return to the development plan for children and families for a moment. It was mentioned here that needs-based targeted support is in line with the development plan for children and families. In fact, the development plan is about a need-based service network. When it comes to subsidies, I can quote from the development plan: 'The European Commission's studies show that the universal system is effective in preventing and alleviating child poverty, especially given the lower level of social protection costs in Estonia compared to other European countries. On the basis of the above, it is worth considering seriously whether it is appropriate to create a situation where, in order to receive (targeted) support, the family must first fall into poverty, thereby preventing such a situation. " We are not talking about losing, but we are still talking about increasing universal support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U173	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U174	Thank you. Exactly, in your quote, the important point was precisely that universal subsidies should not be abolished. I can tell you that this does not come as a special surprise that nothing will be lost with this bill. Universal child benefits will be significantly increased from the third child allowance of the family. In this sense, it coincides with the ideology described in the development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Social workers in the municipality are known to work very hard. The draft imposes additional tasks on them. How many new people do you think you need to hire to administer child support based on needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U176	Thank you very much. Please, Kaia Iva, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U177	Thank you. I can't tell you how many new people to hire. This is decided by each municipality itself. However, the draft contains very clearly the means for municipalities to administer this extra burden of needs-based child support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U178	Thank you. Since, in responding to Mr Big, you used words that this draft does not intend to abolish universal subsidies, please confirm that such a plan does not exist at all. Otherwise, someone might get the wrong impression.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U179	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, for reasons which I do not understand, it has also tried to create a false public perception of the current coalition's intention to abolish universal child support and to introduce only needs-based subsidies. I can confirm here that this is not the plan, it has not been discussed at any of the coalition's meetings on subsidies, and certainly not in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U180	Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U181	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Can you describe who was involved in the Commission's work, or were stakeholders, such as the Parents' Association or anyone else, also asked for opinions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U182	Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U183	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, in preparing this draft, the Committee on Social Affairs was perhaps a bit prematurely involved. Even before the initiators came to the Riigikogu with this draft, we organised a separate meeting where we discussed child benefit issues, if I remember correctly, with 14 or 15 organisations, including the Estonian Alliance for Children's Rich Families, the Alliance for Child Welfare, etc. Their opinions were also taken very seriously into account when drawing up this draft. Similarly, most of them were represented in our committee on 5 November in the procedure for the draft. The process of inclusion has been quite wide-ranging during the procedure for this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U184	Thank you very much. Good waitress! If there are a lot of eloquent figures in itself, then specific examples will be better remembered. Consider this example: One family lives in relative poverty, they have one child. How much more support will they receive from 1 July to get out of relative poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U185	Please, Enn Frontland, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U186	Thank you, good questioner! When you read this bill, it turns out that a little over nine euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U187	You were talking about a new law being prepared at the Ministry. Has there been, or will there be, cooperation with foreign countries, such as Finland, in the preparation of this law? Some who are more critical say that Finland has already taken on a large part of the support of Estonian children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U188	Thank you. We have not yet discussed this law in this respect in the Commission. We have information that the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing for the new Child Protection Act. This has been the case for years, but now it has become more specific. International practice will certainly also be taken into account there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U189	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations and I'm gonna ask for a chair at Heljo Pikhof! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Prime Minister has compared universal child support to seeding money from a plane. No wonder that EUR 19 per child per month has been frozen since 2004, although since then it has also lost half of its purchasing power. The lion's share of our children, roughly 250,000, is growing in single- and two-child families. By comparison, the children of larger families, who are hoping to get a little extra from 1 July next year and also from 2015 onwards, are around 7%. It is populist, however, that government departments are talking about helping the poorest families, i.e. "need-based child support." Rather than, for example, supporting families with children balancing their livelihoods, the draft provides that a family that is still at risk of poverty must first fall into poverty in order to then go, hat in hand, to prove the misery of the family again and again in the municipality. Then there is hope from the coming summer that the first and second children of the family will be given ten euros per month extra from the Treasury. What makes it pretty bad, though, is that the current EUR 19 child allowance can be a weight language that makes the family living from party to mouth wipe their mouths out of income support. Children's benefits from the state are also included in the income of the family when income support is granted. If government departments really wanted to help those in need, then we could start by not adding child benefits to the family's income. It is this proposal that has been presented four times by the Social Democrats to the proceedings of the Riigikogu and that the government coalition has rejected it four times. Not all children in families receiving EUR 19 are supported on a "need-to-need" basis. We take a family of six, where both the mother and the father of the family have two children each. If this family happens to fall into poverty, it is possible to ask for a needs-based tenka for two children, but not for two children, and their universal child benefit will not increase either. Applying for "need-based child benefit" may also lead to the need for a mother-in-law to write out from home if his pension or, God forbid, salary breaks up the poverty rate of registered people at one address. As when applying for income support, the need to apply for child benefit is also taken into account according to who lives in one household. If, for example, the mother and father of the family have lost their job, but the grandmother receives a pension and goes to work, you can be more or less sure that the family must wipe their mouths out of need-based child support. The same applies to grown brothers and sisters who live together in their father's house in a friendly way, even though they have a long time ago in their bread. In short, just as the angelic stuntman in the pursuit of coping also applies to the need-based assistance of children. The right place for this is in the Social Welfare Act. To call all this a reform of child benefits is vile and ridiculous. Today, the most burning problem in Estonia is that even the first children will not be born into the family. If you look at the graphs made by population scientists, you can see that the birth rate of the first-borns has fallen into freefall in the last three years. During the re-independence period of Estonia, there has never been as little first-laps of about 42% less than in 1991. This, in turn, will soon also mean a decline in the number of children born into the family as a second child. This also speaks of the screaming need to increase universal child support immediately and properly, for example to triple to EUR 57.54 per month, as the Social Democrats have repeatedly proposed. Where the basic principle of need-based child benefit can be brought out, the experience of Greece and other southern European countries is illustrated. By now, the birth rate has been drastically reduced, reaching just over one child's female fertile age. If the family has to rely on state support only when poverty is already in the house, the children would rather not be given birth. There are also opposite examples to take from Europe. In the Nordic countries, where all instruments are used to prevent child poverty, the birth rate is quite high in the context of the old world. The Social Democrats agree that families living in distress need every support. At the very least, the future little extra money could be called cosmetic assistance for income support, rather than misleadingly child support. Sad, but true. The reform of children's benefits promised by means of a powerful drum roll has proved to be a supplement to income support for families with children. The poetry scheme accompanying the state budget for the coming year actually provides for a lion's share of children to be frozen at EUR 19 per month. Finally, the government departments have made a big city with their mouths, but not a fly's nest with their hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U191	Thank you very much. I'll have the Olga Stranger next.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are discussing a very important draft in this Chamber, which amends the provisions of the State Family Benefits Act and the Social Welfare Act, which should help the most vulnerable households in our society, families with children. This increases benefits for families living below the relative poverty line in two stages, as well as increases in public support for families with children. From 2015 this increase is already significant compared to the amount of this year's support: from 57 euros and 54 cents to 95 euros and 9 cents for the third and each of the next children. The draft also provides for a substantial increase in the grant paid for the birth of triplets. It is also amended that children's allowance was not paid to comprehensive school graduates during the entire long summer break. However, there are also bottlenecks in this document. Despite the fact that we also drew attention to them during the discussions, there is still the same draft in the Chamber today, which raises certain unanswered questions. For the first time, the draft law 294 sets out the fight against child poverty as the objective of the law. We know very well that 19.5% of children live in relative poverty in Estonia. We also know that relative poverty in the Estonian way means living below 60% of the median income, i.e. that the first member of the family receives less than 280 euros per month and that every next member of the family who is older than 14 years means less than half of this amount, or less than 140 euros. Living in relative poverty, however, does not mean that all these families are poor in the same way. Not at all. Some are missing a few dozen euros from crossing the poverty line, while some live on unemployment and income support, and for them the relative poverty limit is already rich. But let us see what the initiators of the draft offer to children living in relative poverty. The amount of needs-based child benefit from 1 July next year will be EUR 9 59 cents for the first child and EUR 19 cents for the next children. Please note that this is not EUR 19 18 cents for each of the next children, but the maximum need-based allowance is EUR 28 77 cents, regardless of the number of children. Mothers and fathers in this hall probably know what the prices of children's goods are. You know very well how much it costs, for example, winter boots or jacket, exercise and skis, not to mention a bicycle. Surely we all understand that EUR 28 or EUR 9 for one child is not enough support for the poor child. Let's face it, 9 euros is no support at all. This is also known by the initiators of the draft, who wrote in the explanatory memorandum that the adoption of the law helps to reduce relative poverty among children by 2%. This objective, by the way, also includes a development plan for children and families, according to which in 2015 the number of children living in relative poverty should not exceed 17%. In our opinion, this high poverty rate among children is a great disgrace to the Estonian state, especially in a situation where the population is ageing and young families are increasingly choosing a more child-friendly country as their country of birth or giving up their children. Looking at the need-based child benefit proposed in Bill 294, it must be accepted that the direction is right, while the measure itself is somewhat suspicious. Not only is the amount of support very low in order to receive this support, it is necessary to prove poverty in the Social Welfare Department on a quarterly basis. In the case of a divorced marriage, a child's father must necessarily be required to live in court. That is, even if she knows in advance that she's not getting anything because she's unemployed. Moreover, since the determination of relative poverty takes account of the entire household, grandpa and grandmother's pensions are also taken into account, which means that a pensioner may be forced to support both his or her unemployed child and grandchildren, with the household being statistically not relatively poor. At the same time, we know very well that it is in the case of a poor family that the acquisition of a separate place of residence is a problem. This means that households that live together for three generations are often the poorest. It should not be forgotten that the so-called 'need-based' education allowance, which will be paid to students next year, is intended to be regarded as an income, which in turn means that if there are both students and smaller children in the family, a choice must inevitably be made between need-based education support and needs-based child support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U193	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U194	Would you like to extend the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U195	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U196	You can't have both. Education allowance simply absorbs child benefit because it increases income by 130 euros. Now, the last thing I want to draw your attention to. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft act, the initiators refer to the coalition agreement, according to which families with children who need it most must be helped in particular. Poor families are in need of help. However, it does not make sense why the same coalition acts directly on the contrary when determining parental benefits, especially by supporting those who do excellently themselves. Here, in our opinion, there is a very clear contradiction that must be resolved as a matter of urgency. The Centre Party therefore proposes to triple all children's benefits in the budgetary process, regardless of the family's income. Remember that child support is intended to cover part of the costs of raising and teaching children, it is not intended to combat poverty. There are other places and other subsidies for this fight. Let us not start tagging children by paying them ridiculous, need-based support, which the appointment of which makes a child a beneficiary of poverty support, but at the same time does not help him out of poverty. Let us honor our children and families with our children, regardless of their wealth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U197	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal was that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 294 amendments on 20 November 2012 at 6 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U198	Today's next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and related amendments to other laws. Please present the speech chair of the Member of the Riigikogu Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U199	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let us not lose a good pace and we will now proceed nicely with the drafts. Bill 307 is no surprise to you. For the simple reason that this bill has already been processed in this Chamber. He was number 258 back then. There were no objections to the final vote on this draft, but the draft really needs 51 votes in favour to become a law. So let's try to achieve it this time. But I would be unfair if I didn't introduce you to this bill, which is because you've certainly made it all clear to yourself. This is still a very good draft, which amends quite a number of laws. The main objectives of the draft are divided into two parts: amendments to the Commercial Code and related to other laws and amendments to the Land Book Act. First of all, I will talk about the main changes to the Commercial Code and the related laws. As you can read in the explanatory memorandum, the introduction of new procedural software in the business register has led to changes in the part of the business register. The current business register software, with which regulations and entries have been made in the Court's Registry Departments, was made 14 years ago. It makes sense that it no longer meets today's security requirements. The new processing software will allow the full implementation of ISKE's requirements for information systems with a higher level of security. The provisions on the record kept on paper are also obsolete and need to be adapted to suit the register kept electronically. The electronic register will reduce the administrative burden, speed up the procedure and reduce the costs of keeping the register. The draft will also provide for the possibility for the registry departments to resolve entries from other departments and to make entries. This amendment will help to harmonise the workload of the registry departments. It has also made it easier to process applications for merger, division and transformation. While the registries departments are physically located in the same location and process the applications of economic operators in their area, the amendments can now delegate the processing of applications to other sections of the register. The purpose of the amendment is not to make structural changes to the departments. The amendment does not affect the procedure for lodging appeals, as the Code of Civil Procedure provides that the appeal is to be decided by the court which issued the contested decision. The principle that the order is transmitted to the district court through the county court whose entry order is contested by the appeal remains valid. The processing of applications relating to mergers, divisions and reorganisations has also been amended. As a general rule, applications had to be handled earlier by several registrars, the change included applications in one procedure and all applications were settled by one registrar. The order in which the entries are made will not change. I would also like to point out that the draft establishes, at the level of the law, the fees for accessing the data in the commercial register through the respective website. This means that the fees charged by the state for issuing the data entered in the commercial register are aligned with the requirement laid down in § 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, according to which state taxes, charges, state fees, fines and compulsory insurance payments must be laid down in the Act. In view of the above, § 70 of the Commercial Code is specified as follows: The principle that access to the electronic business register, to the register of non-profit organisations and foundations and to the register of commercial pledges is subject to a fee is clearly formulated. The rates shall be established by the Minister of Justice. This rate may be up to EUR 2 per query or query object. The fee shall be exempt from payment by the person when he or she makes a request for himself or herself and when he or she makes a request for valid entry data. Legal persons governed by public law and other persons in need of information to carry out the public tasks provided for by law are also exempted from the payment of the fee. The person himself is currently free of charge of access to the data entered in the registers, as well as to the current entry data, which is not a substantive change. It is important to stress that access to the data obtained from the search will not be subject to a charge, except in the cases referred to above where access to the data will be possible without payment of a fee. So much for the changes to the business code. Briefly, too, amendments to the Land Register Act. As in the case of the registry departments, which were already mentioned above, the restriction on the real estate divisions that the Real Estate Division should only keep a land register for properties located in its territory will be removed. We believe that this will result in a reduction in the working and administrative burden on real estate departments. Two, three or four assistant judges are no longer required to deal with the application relating to a property located in several real estate areas, but only one. Secondly, the procedure for making entries and entry orders will be clarified, legal clarity will be created, i.e. it will specify in which cases the Regulation will have to be formalised and which one will not. The current wording is not clear; the draft clarifies it. Thirdly, at the level of the law, the fees for accessing the land register data will be established through the respective website. This means that the fees charged by the state for issuing the data entered in the land register are aligned with the requirement laid down in § 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Now I'm done. As the initiator, I certainly support the completion of the first reading of the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U200	Thank you very much for the waitress. We'll get to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U201	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Clearly, there is a need to keep up with time and this is certainly a necessary change, but I do have one question. The draft removes the strict link between the real estate districts and the regions. We're all human beings, and we can be wrong to input data. How, then, will responsibility be shared?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U202	Thanks! I do not understand very well who is wrong when entering the data, either the registrar or you as an applicant. As far as the registrar is concerned, I do not see this concern, for the simple reason that you are being dealt with by an official, regardless of the department in which your entries are being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U203	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U204	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Tell me, please, is the new processing software in the business register ready or is it still in the development phase or in the testing phase? It is often the case that we adopt the law and say that next year the register will be operational, but technically this register or the information system is not yet ready. Then we have to change the law and postpone the deadlines. What about this bill? Is it all ready and working, is it being tested or is it still in the development phase?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U205	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U206	Thanks! As you can see from the explanatory memorandum, this project was launched as early as 1 July 2010. To this end, funds have been provided from the European Regional Development Fund's investment plans. There is a readiness to implement the law. We should make a move to create a legal basis for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U207	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You slipped over subsections 3 (1) and 3 (2) of the draft, which aims to eliminate the strict link between the real estate departments and their areas of work. I know you briefly introduced it, but would you like to talk more about the content of this change? I am not a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and I would like more information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U208	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U209	Thanks! The principle is the same as, say, the alert center. You call 112 and it's none of your business where you get your call. That's the way it is here. You will contact the Real Estate Department and this appeal will be processed in the place where most resources are available. We've got detainments at the county courts. If you're gonna walk over, go back to where you've been so far. But if you haven't had anything to do with this institution so far, you haven't wanted to register your business, you won't need it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U210	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, dear waitress, we do not have any agreement on what anyone is asking about, but all three of our questions go like one hole and concern the connection between the real estate department and the real estate areas. Looks like we have a problem together. The example you gave me about the emergency room was very good: you take the phone and you get an answer from anywhere, but you get an answer. As we know, it has often happened that an alarm worker does not know which county there is a village in. That's why rescue workers are being led to the wrong place or some other interference. The work of the PSAP is sometimes disrupted because it is so centralized. In such a case, if the link between the real estate department and the real estate district is lost, can it not happen in the same way that the link between officials and operations and liability is lost?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U211	Thanks! See if your property will start walking around Estonia with the maker of this land decision. Your property is still on the ground where it was, it's there and it stays there, regardless of whether we have any of these real estate departments and how many of them. You make a specific request, you talk about a particular property, and this particular property, not any other, will be fixed and exactly where it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U212	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U213	Thank you. Honourable performer! You also doubted here a few questions ago whether all these data could be entered very correctly. Now I read about the bill in the famous digital stamp. Are you sure that this digoxin too will always be placed very correctly and in the right place? When we look at the late history of your home party, we can see that nearly one hundred Russian mafias were brought to Estonia through the breaking-in of false stamps. What makes you think this gimmick should be sure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U214	Thanks! Just as the Riigikogu is not a rubber stamp, the digoxin is a very secure stamp.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U215	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U216	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Paragraph 1, point 35, states that the Minister of Justice may, by decree, require notaries to ensure the connection to the electronic business register through the e-notary information system. Does such an obligation in any way increase the cost of notaries and can it put pressure on the prices of notary services?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U217	Thank you for your question. The Notaries have expressed their views on this draft and will continue to do their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U218	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U219	Thank you, Madam President. Paragraph 3 (10) of the draft law, which amends § 7716 of the Act, states in paragraph 4 that the Minister of Justice establishes by regulation a list of legal persons governed by public law and other persons who need data for the performance of the public tasks laid down in the Act. Such a regulation should allow the free access of legal persons governed by public law to an electronic land register. If there's a hole in this place, our actions might get stuck somewhere. Is it known that the decree of the Minister of Justice will be completed at the same time as the law is in force, or will there be any failure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U220	Thank you, good Neeme, for a nice question. The Justice Minister should have had that readiness two or three weeks ago when we were in this Chamber. I don't know what happened to your fingers, that you didn't get the vote on this bill, even though you were so comfortable and nice in the Legal Affairs Committee. But the Minister of Justice's readiness has not diminished.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U221	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U222	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I didn't hear you introducing the bill on behalf of the government, talking about the implications of implementing the bill and the costs it will all cost if these changes come into force as a law. Tell me more about it, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U223	Thanks! I will, however, allow myself to be brief. First of all, this is a representative of the government coalition, in which you are on the right track, but the draft has been submitted by two political groups of the Riigikogu, not by the government. But as a wise man, you are free to read the explanatory notes. In § 7 of the explanatory memorandum, the costs necessary for the implementation of the Act are well set out. You can look at them here at least ten euros. The truth is, of course, that the implementation of the law does not generate revenue in the state budget, as the current fees for accessing the registry data through the website are not changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U224	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U225	Thank you. Good performer! I'm also asking about the digital seal. How far to its development? When's this gonna be real? I remember it being said, but I didn't know how and when it was going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U226	Thank you, good questioner, comrade. If I manage to get out of this chair at one point, but if you just don't have any more questions, I'll specify it separately and I'll be sure to let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U227	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U228	Dear waitress, You can't treat commies that unequally! I want to know, too. Why don't you tell me about the remote, what's a digipel?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U229	Digitempel is the same thing as digital signatures that can be added to electronic documents. Again, if you have a specific interest, we will deal with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U230	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U231	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I read the bill with interest. Paragraph 70 of the Commercial Code, according to which the electronic business register, the register of non-profit organisations and foundations and the commercial pledge register are subject to a fee. The first thought was whether our country was so poor that it could not give up this reward. Was this not discussed in the Commission? I'd like to ask who and how they calculated that up to two euros would have to be paid for this transaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U232	Thanks! There was no separate debate on this in the Commission, if not to say that we did not have a debate at all on the second procedure of this draft. Soon a colleague will be ready to tell you. But it has certainly been considered a reasonable cost or, let's say, a reasonable limit. The Minister of Justice can act specifically within the framework of our country's wealth. Looking at how we deal with the drafts here, I sometimes feel that we do not have any budgetary constraints, but often do. It must therefore be said that the country also has budgetary constraints.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U233	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U234	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I read paragraph 6 of the draft explanatory memorandum, which talks about the effects of the law. It states: "When the law enters into force, the new procedural software of the business register can be put into service [- - -]. The main changes concern the adaptation of the provisions on the paper register so that they are also compatible with the electronically kept register. Due to the fact that the new processing software is built on a completely new basis [- -], the work of the registrar has also been simplified. At present, the assistant judge spends too much time processing under the old procedure. ' Can you tell me how much the workload of registrars, including judges' assistants, will be reduced? If this is to be reduced to a very significant extent, do registrars and assistant judges have to be concerned that some posts may even be laid off?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U235	Good questioner! I can't say the percentage, but the bill doesn't plan to reduce the registrar's office. However, this can never be ruled out. However, there is such a consequence of the introduction of software that it allows the same work to be done with the help of fewer people. But we didn't discuss it separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U236	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U237	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Marko! I have a slightly more political question. We've dealt with the same bill once here. Then there was a problem that the coalition didn't get votes at the right moment. I think that maybe that is why many opposition politicians were cautious about voting on this bill. You said it was a good bill. But what are the reasons why the coalition did not get votes in support of this good bill presented by the government? Is there some kind of underwater rock we don't know, which is why some of the coalition members weren't in the Chamber during the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U238	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U239	Thanks! We assumed that there was almost no need for coalition votes to adopt this bill as a law, because it is such a good bill that the opposition will come along like one man and a woman. But I don't understand what stone was buried somewhere that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U240	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The draft has reduced the fine rate from EUR 320 to EUR 200. What can you do about it, not-for-profit organisations and companies sometimes have to make mistakes. It has been said that it is easier to obtain lower fines and that a reduction in the fine rates will not have a significant impact. How big is this impact on, for example, the budget? Do you know how many of these fines were received a year, how many had problems and what the perspective is if the fine rate is lower?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U241	Thanks for the question first. You touched on one of the positive aspects of this draft, a reduction in the fine rate. Indeed, we have not specifically looked at statistics on how many of these cases have occurred in recent times. It can be looked at nicely for you. We have been thinking, above all, about the budgetary aspect. In a broad sense, a better fine should result in as much revenue as it has been so far. Exactly how big they are, I can't tell you right now. But again, we can look it up and you'll be more aware.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U242	No further questions. Thank you, Marko Pomerants! I would like to speak with Siim Kabritsa, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 5 November, the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft law, which is a draft law amending the Commercial Code and related amendments to other laws 307. Let me briefly talk about the objectives of the draft law. The aim is to enable the introduction of new procedural software in the business register. This is particularly because the receipt of paper statements and documents has been reduced to a minimum and the number of digital signatures submitted electronically via the information system has increased. It is therefore necessary to amend and adapt the provisions relating to the record kept on paper in such a way that they are compatible with the register kept electronically. The draft amends some of the provisions of the Commercial Code without any substantive changes to these provisions. The provisions that have become obsolete or cannot be actually complied with will be amended. There have also been changes to the provisions concerning the keeping of registers. More substantive changes can be considered to be the reduction of the fine provided for in the Code and the possibility for the registry departments to resolve entries from other departments and to make entries. The substantive amendments to the Detention Book Act relate to the abolition of the strict link between the real estate departments and their areas of work. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall, with the agreement of the initiators, submit the draft to the first reading as amended. The amendment concerns only the enforcement provision of § 10 (1) of the draft, which originally provided for enforcement on 1 November 2012. In its current, amended form, the entry into force is essentially scheduled for the next day following the publication of the Act in the Official Journal of the State. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to send the draft to the plenary session on 13 November 2012, to propose that the first reading be closed, to set the deadline for tabling amendments on 14 November 2012 and to appoint Siim Kabrits as rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U244	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U245	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! It is listed in the explanatory memorandum that the draft has been agreed with a large number of associations, such as the Estonian Non-profit Associations and Foundations Association, yet this material has not been provided here. Can you shed some light on what the main concerns of the cooperation partners were, and was that also mentioned in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U246	Thank you for your question. This issue was not addressed in the Commission. The main issues of the draft are also included in the comparative analysis of the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U247	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 307 amendments. November 14th at 4 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U248	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the matrimonial property register law, the notary's fee law and the law amending the law on civil status proceedings initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Please present the speech chair of the Member of the Riigikogu Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U249	Welcome again, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. It seems to me that it would make sense to read the drafts at least at six readings, because starting from the fourth time, there will be interest and there will be entirely relevant substantive questions. But I'm not quite sure I'm going to find a lot of supporters in this fight. But now I'm talking about bill 308, which is also known to you from your earlier life as Bill 219. Of course, this is again a very sensible draft. The purpose of the draft before you is to create the prerequisites for the transition to an electronic matrimonial property register, the introduction of electronic registration cards and files and the facilitation of access to data entered in the matrimonial property register. In addition, the procedure for the notification of the matrimonial property register to the civil status officers is simplified when they are married. The matrimonial property register is one of the country's main registers, which records the property relationships chosen by the spouses, their change and their termination. The property ratio of the spouses can be determined either as a unit of property, as a set-off for the increase in assets or as an asset separation. In the case of a merger of assets, the assets belong to both parties in equal parts and most of the transactions must be carried out jointly. The set-off of an asset gain will give the spouses greater financial autonomy, while giving the economically weaker spouse clear guarantees, such as the protection of the family's common home. In the case of asset separation, the two parties are completely independent from each other in the material sense, there are no common rights to the asset, and the consent of the other spouse is not required when dealing with the asset. An entry in the matrimonial property register shall be made when the ratio of the set-off of an increase in an asset or of the asset separation is chosen or when the spouses enter into a matrimonial property agreement. At present, the matrimonial property register is kept on paper and therefore the processing of submitted applications takes time. The printing of the register card is also uncomfortable and the volume of the paper archive is increasing. You must contact the Real Estate Department for access to the details of the matrimonial property register. The data entered in the registry card cannot be accessed using the web solution. Since the entry into force of the new Family Act on 1 June 2010, the number of entries in the matrimonial property register has increased considerably. Many marriage mates use the option of choosing an asset relationship that is already entered in the matrimonial property register when they are married. For example, there were 504 entries in the register in 2005, 1555 entries in 2010 and 2507 entries in the previous year. This means a huge increase in administrative burdens. From this point of view, it has been reasonable to reduce the administrative burden and to make the register on paper electronic in order to facilitate access to the data entered in the matrimonial property register. The adoption of the Bill as a law will create prerequisites for the transition to an electronic matrimonial property register in order to make the data entered there more accessible to persons. A person can still contact the Real Estate Department for access to the data entered in the matrimonial property register, but there are additional possibilities to use the website or contact a notary. Access to the matrimonial property register is free of charge in the detention department and through the website, and you must pay the notary fee when you contact a notary. The processing of submitted applications should also become faster due to the use of procedural software. Instead of the current 30 days, applications will be reviewed in 14 days. That's it. That's it. Of course, as representative of the initiator, I support the completion of the first reading of this draft. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U250	Thank you. We'll get to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U251	Thank you. Good performer! This matrimonial property register is public. Surely, many people fear that the list of assets is suddenly available in the Internet. How are data that should not be public or leak protected?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U252	Thanks! There are dozens of databases in Estonia with one or different data about us. Their security requirements are simply those that should minimise, to say no, access to outsiders specifically for you or me or anyone else's personal data. We can see them ourselves, and I'm sure they'll be seen by the carrier, but no one else.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U253	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U254	How is this electronic matrimonial property system recorded in a purely practical manner? Another specific question: Do both partners need to be present?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U255	When matters of property are agreed upon, both sides of the marriage will surely be affected. That's what marriage is all about. As an old man, I didn't have to do anything like this when I took a woman. I actually feel sad that marriage has become a rare phenomenon at all, even though we can see that the activity of carrying out property has increased considerably. I call on all those who are not yet married to find a nice partner and get married!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U256	Thank you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U257	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really looked at this bill with interest. An expression like 'unique numbering of register cards' stood out. What does 'unique numbering' mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U258	It's very easy to answer. In order to avoid confusion between registration cards, they must be distinguishable. Each card has a specific number.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U259	No further questions. Thank you. Siim Kabritsa, Member of the Legal Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U260	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 5 November, the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the matrimonial property register law, the notary's fee law and the Civil Status Act, i.e. draft 308. The purpose of the draft law is to create the prerequisites for the transition to an electronic matrimonial property register, the introduction of electronic registration cards and files and the facilitation of access to data entered in the matrimonial property register. The paper register will no longer be completed and the processing of applications submitted will become faster. Process software exchanges data with other information systems and basic data recorded in the register can be accessed quickly and easily. In addition, the procedure for notification of the matrimonial property register on the property regime chosen when marrying is simplified with a view to reducing the workload of civil status officers. The main changes to be made to the draft act are the following: the prerequisites for the transition to an electronic matrimonial property register are created, the possibility of access to the electronic matrimonial property register is improved, the regulation concerning the maintenance of an electronic matrimonial property register is clarified, and the procedures for the submission to the matrimonial property register of the selected property relationship are simplified when marrying. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 13 November; to propose that the first reading be closed; to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 14 November 2012; and to appoint Siim Kabrits as rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U261	Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 308 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 308 amendments on 14 November at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U262	Let us move to the fifth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Andres Anvelt, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U263	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is my pleasure and honour to report to you the draft Act 291 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Before I go to the content of the draft, I will bring some figures that motivated us to initiate the draft. The number of these crimes involving acts of violence against a public authority has increased considerably over the years. While in 2003 we were able to talk about 159 facts, there were 258 in 2010. But now to the purpose and content of this bill. First of all, I must resolve a misunderstanding that will certainly disturb your eyes as legislators. The explanatory memorandum states that settlement procedures in criminal proceedings account for 97%. As I later received from the Ministry of Justice, in fact 55% of cases have been resolved through an agreement procedure. This 97% covers all non-general types of proceedings, including simple and command procedures, etc., which make up the majority of the legal proceedings in Estonia. The part of the general procedures is relatively small in Estonia. However, despite the fact that settlement procedures are not 97%, but 55%, one of the most important objectives of a devalued penal policy, which is definitely prevention, a message to society that is promised and not. Those who committed intentional crimes have taken advantage of this opportunity and use the terms of the settlement procedure to escape possible more severe penalties. On the one hand, the settlement procedure will certainly reduce the state's procedural costs and speed up the process, but the negative effects, such as the sense of impunity for criminals and the loss of a sense of social justice, will directly cause immeasurable but indirect damage to the authority of the state, as well as to the law enforcement authorities, and will certainly increase reversibility. One example of the negative impact of settlement procedures is that it is often exploited by criminals, for example, in order to reduce the number of accused persons by imposing an obligation on some of their accomplices to agree and others will then remain outside the circle of accused persons. The current Code of Criminal Procedure is already significantly restricting the number of crimes for which the agreement procedure is prohibited. These crimes include most acts where the state, as well as international security, is directly harmed. Thus, such crimes include several offences against humanity and international security, more serious crimes against individuals, such as killing and murder, as well as hostageing, as well as qualified or aggravating forms of rape. Among them are some of the most serious and dangerous crimes against property, such as qualified, or aggravated, types of robbery and extortion. These include acts against the state such as terrorism, attacks on the life and health of a high state official, attacks on the life and health of an internationally protected person, participation in various crimes against the defence capabilities of the state, and crimes against public order and security. For those crimes for which the settlement procedure is excluded, the Code of Criminal Procedure refers to the whole section. It should also be noted that some offences against justice must not be subject to a settlement procedure. This is not allowed, for example, if a judge, a judge, a public judge, a researcher, a prosecutor, a lawyer, a representative of the victim or his/her loved ones have suffered serious damage to their health. At the same time, if it is merely an act of violence, the agreement procedure is allowed for reasons that are incomprehensible. However, in the case of violations of military law, the agreement procedure is already prohibited only against a person serving for acts of violence. It is unclear why the arrangement procedure is allowed in the case of acts of violence committed against a public authority or other person defending public policy in connection with the performance of his or her duties. In advance, it must be said that this paragraph protects not only the police but also many other individuals who in some way protect public order, such as prison officials and also security officers, if they perform their duties in the interests of public order. The act of violence is threats, pain, torture, or any physical abuse that does not lead to more serious physical consequences, or permanent health problems. To some extent, it is understandable to apply a settlement procedure if such acts are committed in the form of personal hatred, anger or retaliation, if the victim fails to fulfil his duties and the attack is specifically aimed at the physical health of another person. However, if the aim is to attack public order and show disrespect for the authority, the application of the agreement procedure here to the speaker is incomprehensible. At the moment of the attack, the attack is not intended to cause physical damage to another person, but is aimed directly at the perpetrator or the person performing his functions in the interests of society. In other words, the criminal attacks the rules and understandings agreed upon in a civilised society. Similarly to § 274 of the Penal Code, "Violence towards a representative of authority and other person defending public policy', § 303 of the Penal Code, "Violence towards a judge, a public judge, a researcher, a prosecutor, a lawyer, a representative of the victim and his closeness' fulfils the same objective. Although public policy and justice are a protected benefit in the first paragraph, their objectives are close and directly related to each other. There can be no justice without violating public order, so the application of the settlement procedure is not justified here either. As in the first case, the perpetrator here is also violating the social agreement, or law order, in the most direct and immediate way, by attacking individuals who have been called and set to defend our common interests. Thus, one of the objectives of the draft law is to exclude the application of the settlement procedure to persons accused on the basis of subsections 274 and 303 of the Penal Code. The aim is to include these paragraphs in the list of paragraphs containing offences that exclude the settlement procedure. The second objective of the draft law is to limit the number of terms and conditions agreed in the agreement procedure to persons who have previously been sanctioned for intentional crimes, i.e. who have previously been subject to the agreement procedure and have not drawn any conclusions from it. They have not fulfilled the essential objective of applying the sentence through the previous settlement procedure: to influence the perpetrator in the future to refrain from committing new offences and thereby protect our common legal order. In other words, the aim of the draft is to reduce the sense of impunity for criminals who are prone to recidivism and, at the same time, to increase the sense of social justice and legal certainty. The bill narrows the terms of the agreement with the suspect or accused person and the lawyer, excluding from among them negotiations on the type and extent of the sentence where the suspect or accused person has previously been punished as a adult for a intentional crime. It does not matter whether it has previously been subject to a general procedure or to another type of procedure. A person who is consciously re-indicating a crime cannot be allowed to negotiate a penalty, i.e. the type and extent of the sentence imposed on him. For the first time, the subjective factor in the settlement procedure is even understandable, as the criminal's error may be due to a number of external factors. Since the settlement procedure is also based on the recognition of its own guilt, it is understandable at the first time that the accused is given the opportunity to speak with him about the sentence to be imposed. However, in the second and subsequent times, it would be reasonable to rule that out. The recognition of guilt may play an important role in determining punishment, but allowing a person who knowingly is on a relapsed path is deplorable from the point of view of a sense of social justice and gives the accused the opportunity too easily to reduce the penalty imposed on him. Such an opportunity will certainly increase the sense of impunity. Thus, such punishment does not serve the essential purpose stated in the Penal Code: to influence the perpetrator in the future to refrain from committing offences. Coming to the last aspect concerning the negotiation of an agreement procedure, it must be noted that the agreement is actually very broad. The type and rate of punishment is only one part of it. The other party, the accused or the suspect, is being negotiated, for example, with regard to the qualifications of the crime, the extent of the damage caused by the crime, the size of the circumstances of the crime and many other aspects, such as the discussion of property going to confiscation. Negotiating the type and rate of punishment is an excessive luxury for the perpetrator, we say. To propose the type of punishment should be the authority of the prosecutor, or prosecutor's office, in the settlement procedure. The other party shall decide whether or not to accept it, if it does not agree, to choose the general procedure. It certainly needs to be noted that, unlike the Government of the Republic, we certainly do not think that the cost of implementing this law would increase directly. To some extent, yes, you can see this danger, but we are still following a positive programme that, if society is to be given a signal that we are not tolerating reversibility, it may rather save costs. Moreover, the amounts of money allocated to internal security and also to law enforcement are not dependent on the types of proceedings. Thank God, otherwise it would not be the rule of law, but the financial state. I call on you to support this bill. I also note that we are not really inventing a bicycle. I stress that the settlement procedure is already allowed for limited formations in Estonian criminal proceedings. I ask a very rhetorical question: is the attack on the life and health of a high civil servant more dangerous than the attack on the life of a public authority defending public order? This distinction is even discriminatory to the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U264	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U265	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure excludes settlement procedures for criminals who have resorted to violence against a public authority or another public order defender. In principle, the country and its functioning have been attacked. How is it even possible that the Commission has proposed to reject this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U266	Thank you, good questioner! The representative of the Commission should describe it more precisely, because on this point, I see neither any world-view water will nor any other political argument. Rather, it seems to me that there is a competitive bill or a possible draft of the Working Group on the Criminal Code of the Ministry of Justice, which has been discussed a great deal and which seeks to increase the penalties for such acts of violence. I take this opportunity to ask: if a citizen who is drunk or drugged and attacks a policeman, whether or not pushed, has a much longer sentence for it, is it balanced with the idea that the sentence must be quick and immediate? I honestly do not understand why these two things, the exclusion of the agreement procedure and the greatest possible sanctions, could not work in synergy. But I think, dear colleague Peter, that this is a question you should ask the representative of the Commission when he comes to the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U267	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will ask you more generally about the agreements. I'm sketching the situation. This is a couple of police officers, a woman gets caught trading secret information, her eaters are in court, and the prosecutor demands a real prison sentence for one year. The man, on the other hand, takes part in a police imitation operation that requires a bribe from an entrepreneur, the entrepreneur goes on a hook, brings a bribe, gets caught and goes to jail. A few days later, the prosecutor withdraws a fully certified accusation against the wife of that police officer. How extensive are these agreements in the current police system? As a former police officer, you should know that. Is it possible that these agreements also take place at a higher level, not just before the trial?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U269	Thank you. Quite a complicated question in the sense that you brought out a particular case here. From this remote, I don't know how to dissect this case, and I don't think it's possible, because every case has to have, as they say, a Fabula fully known. I think the remote control of the Riigikogu is not the place to dissect specific cases. However, I dare say that the agreement procedure, which is in itself a very necessary form of procedure, must not become a very easy way of resisting. What will happen during the settlement procedure? The other party, or accused or suspected, is in a weaker position if, for example, he or she has to testify in another criminal case. In that case, he can be manipulated. The large number of settlement procedures in Estonia (55% of all court decisions) shows that, in my understanding, this procedure does not fully fulfil its objective of achieving lower procedural costs and simpler procedures, but has become a relatively easy-to-use type of procedure. A number of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which are currently being discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, also show that there will be a review of the content of the settlement procedures, or at least of the crimes where this procedure may be used. But when it comes to the use of a settlement procedure for a police officer's attackers, there are slightly different aspects. I would like to stress once again that this act of violence is not only the police officer, it is actually the state and the legal order.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U270	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U271	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Are you aware of the practice in other EU Member States? How often do they use settlement procedures and what are the percentages? Are there any restrictions that you want to impose with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U272	Thank you, good questioner! In anticipation, it must be said that national criminal procedures and criminal codes are still unique. I think it's a slippery ice, if you start looking for comparisons with other, perhaps more developed countries in criminal proceedings and legal systems. Ten years ago, when the reform of criminal proceedings took place in Estonia, perhaps they were looking for them too lightly. We did look for parallels in the German legal space, though from many other countries, regardless of our particular situation and the difference between our, say, criminogenic situation. We have not deliberately started looking for parallels in this draft. This would require an analysis of the legal system and the criminogenic situation and a search for parallels. In conclusion, it would not fulfil this objective, which we are talking about now, to exclude the agreement procedure from attacking the authority. So I am indebted to the answer, but once again, I am consciously indebted to that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U273	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U274	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to say thank you for such a thorough and expert presentation, and also for the fact that you have followed the sense of justice of the people, which demands that laws in this direction come from Parliament. Yet, the people still have acute problems with their sense of justice, which are a little attached to the subject. For example, in order to humiliate the dignity of the state, people consider that the eaters of high-level police officers (for example, some former prefect eaters) or, worse, the eaters involved in criminal formations created in the structure of law enforcement agencies (i.e. I refer here to the Indrek Põdra case) will be dealt with in the settlement procedure. People think it's something behind the corner. Should we not extend the restrictions of the agreement procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U275	Thank you. The question is very correct. The current area of justice and the Code of Criminal Procedure give the prosecutor the opportunity not to apply the settlement procedure. Actually, it's his decision, it's not the defendant's decision. It's the DA's decision whether or not he's even going to offer a settlement procedure. I used to say maybe a little crazy, but often the arrangement procedure is used as a way out of the burden of proof. This creates cracks in the sense of social justice. People do not understand how crimes that are essentially directed against the national legal order can be agreed. But it's being used. I assume this is done because the verification would otherwise be relatively difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-13_U276	Honourable waitress! Good fellows! It's 1:00 and today's trial is over. We will continue to deal with the draft 291 at the next regular session, starting tomorrow at 14 p.m. I wish you strength in your work! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
