ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Some of you have spent the last few weeks in Question Time of the Riigikogu on Wednesdays and have noticed that with minute questions, many people have tried to clarify the tax principles of Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. This has not been done for any other reason than that there has been significant price increases in Estonia in recent years and especially last year. According to recent data from Statistics Estonia, prices have increased especially in a sector affected by new administrative pricing decisions. And when we look at which areas they are most affected, over 40% of this administrative price increase was spent on housing. In 2010, just before the elections of the Riigikogu in 2011, the IRL, the Greens and the Reform Party adopted a law imposing price restrictions on monopolies with 53 votes in favour. It was a very resounding law, promised to lower the price. The reality is exactly the opposite: since the adoption of the Monopoly Price Restrictions Act, the Competition Authority has started to exert considerable pressure on utilities, especially on water companies. And so we see that there are dozens of settlements where the price has been raised by more than a third precisely because there is a higher profitability requirement. In this regard, we have five questions for the Prime Minister. 11 Members have signed the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U3	Peter Võsa, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Me and 11 other members of the Central Party Group...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U5	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall, please, let's respect the waitress! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U6	... is an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Ken-Marti Vaher...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U7	Good waitress, I'm sorry again! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. I very much ask that we respect those fellow officials who want to listen and the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U8	...in connection with the closure of the Rescue Command of Võsu. This year, the Rescue Board plans to close nine commandos all over Estonia. Although the government is talking about the reorganisation of the Rescue Board as a way to improve life-saving capabilities, the problem for people is, above all, the loss of a sense of security, as there are practically no viable solutions. The state saves money and contributes to the voluntaryisation of rescue funding. The decision to shut down the commandos will also cause great inconvenience to existing rescuers. This is how the Virumaa Journal of 7 February describes a situation where ten rescuers who lose their job on 16 May have not yet been offered specific offers, although initially promised. Nor do the people of Vihula still know to what extent the state will support the activities of voluntary rescuers. In addition to reducing people's security and security in Vihula, the risk to Lahemaa National Park is also increasing significantly. In the event of a fire, professional rescuers from Kunda, or 40 kilometers [40 km] away, will have to wait from May. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U9	Dear colleagues, I have adopted two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's board of directors, and the Riigikogu's board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher, the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and the Minister of Defence Mart Laar. Now, let's go through the presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U10	The first item is the second reading of the Bill 141 of Amendment to § 8 of the International Military Cooperation Act initiated by the National Defence Commission. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the National Defence Committee Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U11	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law under discussion was completed on 17 January. a. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before sending it to second reading at its meeting on 6 February and 9 February. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for amendments, which means that the text of the draft text at first reading should be used as the basis for the second reading of the draft. A reminder. The development of the draft was due to the need to provide Estonia with the opportunity to contribute quickly and flexibly to the new military operations initiated by NATO or the European Union with the staff officers of the Defence Forces and, where appropriate, with the staff officers. Such an operation may be initiated at any time and, unfortunately, and mostly, at short notice. According to the current law, this draft decision of the Riigikogu will be sent to the ministerial coordination circle as soon as possible, but there may be a situation where the draft will not reach the Riigikogu until the end of the operation or the end of the operation after approval by the government. This bill must pass two readings in the Riigikogu, which will also take some time. The implementation of the new provision set out in the draft is limited to NATO and European Union operations, as Estonia participates in the decision-making of these operations and organisations, and contributing to operations managed by these organisations is Estonia's priority, which is due to our membership. At its meeting on 9 February, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included on the agenda for the fifth working week of the Riigikogu for the second reading on Thursday, i.e. today. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to approve the explanatory memorandum at second reading of the draft and to propose that the Riigikogu stop the second reading of the draft under discussion. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U12	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. No amendments were received to draft 141. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the first item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U13	We will move on to the second item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Alcohol. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable people! After the first reading, the Committee on Finance discussed the draft for preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 7, 13 and 14 February. In order to know that no amendments were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments, some of the proposals came from outside the Riigikogu, from businesses. Amendment 4 takes one of these into account in part. In short, on the proposals for improvements made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If you are looking at the first and second suggestions for improvement, it is about correcting errors. The first amendment had a reference error (a false reference to the European Union legislation). The second amendment also contains a correction of the error. If this error had not been corrected, it would have come out of the text that exports to third countries would be subject to tax. The third amendment extends the circle of persons from another Member State from which the Tax and Customs Board can collect excise duties relating to the maintenance of excise warehouses on the basis of official assistance. The fourth amendment introduces an obligation for the Ministry of Finance to notify the parties concerned of the change in the design of the tax marks six months before the change takes place at the same time as the new rate enters into force and the latter is known six months in advance. For your information, between the first and second readings, we also had a working group where we met representatives of the Association of Tobacco Producers. Tobacco producers had sent proposals to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the first of which was formulated in such a way that the increase in the excise duty rate for tobacco products and the change in the design of the tax mark should be linked each time. Another proposal was to make new design tax stamps available to producers at least three months before the increase in excise duty. We discussed these proposals in the working group, but the Ministry of Finance did not support either. We then sought a solution and reached a compromise such as that stated in the fourth amendment. The fifth amendment clarifies the terms relating to the electronic delivery note, as proposed by the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance. The sixth proposal amends the date of entry into force of the draft. 1 March is, unfortunately, no longer real, given the time required for processing in the Riigikogu and also the time limit laid down in the Act for acts following the adoption of the Act. The Commission proposed that the second reading of the draft be discontinued and, if the second reading is closed, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading. a February 22, 2005. These proposals were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-16_U15	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will begin the examination of the 150 amendments to the draft. Six amendments have been received, all from the lead committee. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the second item has been dealt with. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.13 a.m.
