ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 14th working week. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to brief the Prime Minister. This inquiry concerns a protracted property reform that has been going on for twenty years, but the end of which is yet to be seen. Recently, an interesting phenomenon has emerged in this regard. In fact, the decisions that were made a decade ago have been reviewed. People have now become appalled by reports that their apartment is no longer theirs, but that the house has been returned to Germany to displaced persons, and that is why people can lose their housing. This inquiry was made at the request of the representatives of the Association of Estonian Tenants. We've analyzed this problem. We will ask the Prime Minister about five questions so that he can explain to us how the reform that took place ten years ago, during which the final decision on hundreds of houses had to be made, is now suddenly reviewed and people are being driven to the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U3	Are there any other drafts or questions? No, it's not. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 9 May, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkogu. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U4	We will address the first item on today's agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on employment contracts initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we make a final decision, I will recall a little of the first discussion of the Employment Contracts Act in this Chamber in October 2008. On the question of whether this new draft law is also attractive, the then Minister for Social Affairs, Maret Maripuu, replied that, of course, because if unemployment benefit and flexibility in labour law are possible in the case of so-called voluntary unemployment, then the new law will certainly be so attractive that people want to work in Estonia and more jobs will come. As we can see, it went the other way, and it is far from being attractive, because workers' rights and benefits were reduced, dismissal was made easy and re-initiation was essentially abolished. However, one of the attractive points in this law was. But the coalition will cancel this today before it even enters into force. Thus, those who leave the previous job 'at their own request or with the agreement of the parties' will not be eligible for insurance compensation. At the time, the Minister also stressed that the conditions for voluntary unemployment were more severe: the level of compensation was lower (40%) and the qualification conditions were much stricter, namely that it should have been four years of unemployment insurance for five years. At that time, it was understood that people usually do not leave a job that is well - paid and well - paid for as a distraction. This is understood in 16 European countries, such as Belgium, Switzerland, Austria, Norway, Germany and elsewhere, where voluntary unemployment is also compensated. Europe has realised that it is reasonable to give these people some support in order to get them back into the labour market more quickly. Why are you canceling this good and employee-worthy benefit right now? I really don't understand that. I don't understand why you think that a person will sit at home voluntarily without work for no reason, getting 40% of his salary. There's no logical explanation for that. After all, it is no secret that the so-called voluntary departure from work or the agreement of the parties actually means losing a person's job, either because the employer does not like or is not suitable for a particular person, or because they simply want to save the salary of one worker. It also happens that work is hard and too much. At this time of high unemployment, it is quite rare for an employee to actually leave on his own initiative, but, of course, he could also use 40% of his salary, even in the case of poor wages, because it is at least temporary before finding a new job. But what is the benefit of the state if these people are at home with very little unemployment benefit? I don't understand it. The state benefits a working person who pays taxes, such as VAT and excise duties, who earns and consumes and does not have to pay income support. It is therefore completely incomprehensible why the state is cutting its potential workforce. At the unemployment fund, as I said, there's money. The government is holding it for another budget gap to patch up and provide liquidity. The state uses so-called foreign money, the money collected by employers and employees to correct its own mistakes, thus setting a bad example for future generations. That is how we have once again come to the morals of our political culture and state power. If the government and the Riigikogu can deceive the electorate and break the promises made, why are we blaming ordinary citizens for a lack of national sovereignty? The Centre Party Group cannot go along with this draft, and we will vote against it. We will vote against the draft that breaks the promises made to voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U6	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U7	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the Employment Contract Act that we are going to vote on today has a direct impact on employment relations in the country. This affects the relationships between the social partners involved in the labour market and about 640000 people of working age. In the third reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contract Act, it is also important to describe the larger picture. If you think that the problem is simply a change in the employment contract law, that government departments have placed a large question mark over unemployment insurance, then you will only perceive one part of the situation. In fact, the problem is wider and concerns national social security in general. We are not talking about unemployment insurance as much as the type of insurance, because social security is also organised by the state, but about the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu, i.e. those who exercise state authority, reliable partners in organising public insurance. An insurance company sells trust. By organising health insurance, unemployment insurance or, for example, insurance against accidents at work, the state also sells trust. The fact that a insured person who has paid monthly health insurance contributions may not receive specialist medical care, primary care or rehabilitation within a normal period of time is generally known. The fact that the employer of unemployment insurance does not receive this benefit in the event of a seemingly voluntary departure from work, which the insurance company, in this case the state, clearly promised him just now and for which funds have been collected, will become clear today. Government departments themselves also perceive the problem of loss of credibility. Why else would the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee be put behind us when presenting and passing the bill? It was probably hoped that the people who could be deceived in the elections would not understand the source of the draft. The interesting question is how the government coalition now intends to carry out the occupational accident insurance, which it has also explicitly promised. What kind of trust is this done on the basis of? Today, it really is not only a matter of complaining about amending the Employment Contracts Act, but rather about systematically breaking the credibility of the state as the most important social partner. Sounds dramatic, but the situation is dramatic. Today we are voting on the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act and a substantial reduction in employment security. Despite the vocal and general protests, the amendment of the law is pushed through by the power of the coalition. The day after tomorrow, we will vote on the reform of higher education. Despite general protests, this law is also pushed through by the power of the coalition. The amendment of the collective agreement law was just pushed through by the coalition's votes, despite a wave of national protests. National rescue teams will be eliminated, primary care will be concentrated in centres. Municipalities draw up and submit declarations and call for vocal structural changes, but do not listen to them. Teachers strike, but their demands are ridiculed. What is happening in Estonia? Politicianism is rampant in Estonia. The proliferation of politicianism replaces politics with power-grabbing and power-keeping technologies, destroys politicians and trust in government administration. The result of the election will be achieved with the support of skilful advertising campaigns. After that, it will be carefully explained that the previous agreements do not really matter, and the electoral promises did not really mean what they were thought to mean. Free higher education did not mean free higher education, reducing home expenses did not mean reducing home expenses, but instead one of KredEx's programmes to heat apartment buildings, and better Estonia is not intended for everyone, but for a small part of Estonian society. Looking at this sequence, it can indeed be said that today's amendment of the Employment Contracts Act is not a one-off phenomenon, but a part of the system. The Social Democrats will vote in favour of maintaining and increasing the credibility of the state and against amending the Employment Contracts Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U8	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If we adopt this draft as a law, we will repeal the supplementary scheme for the payment of unemployment benefit in the event of the termination of a voluntary employment or service relationship, or we will maintain the current situation in the labour market where compensation is paid in the event of forced unemployment. We have repeatedly talked about these arguments here in two readings. In short, we can say that, in the long term, we will ensure the sustainability of the unemployment fund and the availability of sufficient resources to pay the benefits in force. We also provide reserves for worse times. I do not want to agree in any way with the complaints from one side of the Chamber that the unemployment fund's reserves are too large and that this is something very deplorable. On the other hand, the desire to distribute these funds quickly cannot be accepted. Many politicians have, over and over again, liked to share additional money and gain popularity with it. However, in the recent past, we have seen all kinds of times, including the lack of resources from the unemployment fund, and we were forced to increase unemployment insurance contributions repeatedly. I hope we're smarter today. There are currently two fundamental options. First of all, it is possible to pay these much-spoken voluntary unemployment benefits by starting to pay additional benefits and for voters to like to start spending significantly more money from the unemployment fund. Another option is to take into account everyone, more than 600,000 people working in Estonia in the long term, and to keep them safe and with strong reserves, to take a good step towards reducing the tax burden on all of them from next year. In essence, it has been decided that the unemployment insurance contribution will be 3% from next year, but in the long term there will certainly be an opportunity to further reduce this contribution. I don't know if we'll ever reach 1.5%. As early as next year, the average Estonian family could therefore have 160.200 euros, which is not a small amount of money. A great deal has been said about this agreement, which the current government coalition is, as if, breaking or breaking. I repeat, in 2008 we saw many things differently. This agreement was indeed concluded in its own time, in the economic state in which the Estonian state was then. As early as 2009, the situation was completely different. I would stress once again that there was a firm conviction that all these payments would fit 1.5%. If that were the case, the compensation allowed for voluntary departure could be maintained. I cannot agree, however, with what has been said today, that such compensation protects the interests of those who have left work at their own request. I repeat, there are enough legal possibilities for both employers and employees to terminate their employment contract. We should not collect payments from working people in order to encourage the unlawful conduct of the employer. I would also stress that unemployment insurance is not a piggy bank or a term deposit where we put the money in and then take it out. It is still a national coercive instrument...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U10	Would you like some extra time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U11	... so that the employee, if in trouble, can find a new job and get back to work as soon as possible. Therefore, our group will certainly vote in favour of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U12	Thank you. There's no more calls. We will go to the final vote and prepare for it. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee 180. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu, 43 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U13	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "According to the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of recognized experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting." I would like a presentation by Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U14	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! I have the honour to present to you the draft decision of the Riigikogu prepared in the Committee on Culture for the appointment of members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. Estonian Public Broadcasting is known to work as a public organisation on the basis of its own law. According to this law, the highest management body for national broadcasting is the Council. The council consists of two types of members: members of the Riigikogu and recognised experts in the field of broadcasting. The term of office of a member of the Riigikogu in the Council coincides with the time of his mandate in the Riigikogu, but the term of office of an expert is five years. The term of office of sectoral experts in the current National Broadcasting Council will essentially expire today or tomorrow, as they were appointed to the Estonian National Broadcasting Council on 8 May 2007. Their mandate has lasted five years and these powers are now coming to an end. According to the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, the Committee on Culture submits a proposal to the Riigikogu plenary to appoint new members. The Committee on Culture prepared this draft at its meeting on 30 April. Eight candidates had been nominated for four recognised posts. The Commission decided that those candidates who were not elected by the Commission will not be made public. Similarly, the number of votes cast by elected persons shall not be disclosed in order to avoid undermining people's ability to apply for any major post in the future. Following a secret vote in the committee, Mart Luik, Paavo Nõgene, Rain Tamm and Agu Uudelepp were elected among these candidates. All candidates have, as required by law, agreed to submit their applications and confirmed that they meet the legal requirements of a member of the National Broadcasting Council. As a result of this secret vote, the Committee on Culture has drawn up a draft before you. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, this draft decision is discussed only at one reading. Pursuant to § 14 of the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, the right to propose the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board by the Cultural Commission is not possible to propose amendments to this draft. The proposal of the Committee on Culture to the Riigikogu's plenary is to put this draft decision to the final vote today and to adopt it as a decision. The committee also decided that the draft would be presented to the Riigikogu plenary session by the person standing before you. All the decisions taken in relation to this draft within the Commission were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U15	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U16	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I understand that you have elected the renowned representatives of the field to the National Broadcasting Council. Were the candidates invited to the Committee on Culture and did the Commission consider, in essence, the suitability of one or another future member, or was it also secret? Many members of the Commission may not have known all the candidates or their personal characteristics.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U17	Thank you. If a Member of the Commission had made such a proposal, the Commission would certainly have been able to invite all or any of them, as the Members of the Commission wished. However, such a proposal did not come, as all proposed candidates are probably well-known enough. No one considered it necessary to call them before the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U18	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns the procedure for seeking candidates. First of all, the Committee on Culture called on the parliamentary groups to present their candidates. A deadline was set for this. Four candidates were nominated by the deadline. Only then did the Committee on Culture turn to a number of professional associations for proposals. Why did the Commission choose such a procedure? Didn't the candidates who were originally nominated fit in?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U20	The practice that at first the selection of experts is also addressed to the political groups of the Riigikogu has probably existed for as long as the national broadcasting, the relationship between its council and the formation of the council with the Riigikogu. There is no doubt that proposals may be received from any circuit; this is by no means limited by law. The method of submitting candidates is not described in the Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U21	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The National Broadcasting Act states that four experts are appointed from among the recognised experts in the field of national broadcasting. In his interview, Mr Nõgene has expressed the opinion that the wing of experts in the Council needs different members from different areas, not just from media experts. That's how he commented on his own candidacy. If the Committee on Culture shares this view, why did you not initiate an amendment, but went directly to the violation of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U23	I wouldn't call it breaking that law. I can certainly only express my personal opinion here, but in my opinion, the concept of a recognised expert in the field could indeed be a little wider in the law. The media is still a wider area than any very specific one. The media cover the whole of society. It is very possible that this concept should indeed be slightly expanded in the law, so that the composition of the National Broadcasting Council is not already limited in advance to media professionals in a very narrow sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U24	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Dear rapporteur, first of all, thank you very much for your thorough review of what has been done in the Commission. My question comes partly from my ignorance, but above all from my desire to know. What has been the professional exposure of Paavo Nõges to broadcasting? All four proposed candidates are very dignified and nice people, but the question is precisely his exposure to broadcasting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U26	The nomination of Paavo Nõges at the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 30 April did not raise any major doubts. As far as this has been said in an informal way, what I had in mind in reply to the previous question has been said. In fact, the media sector is much wider than any narrow field of expertise. I must also say that Paavo Nõges' candidacy was also repeatedly supported by the Association of Estonian Performance Institutions. When discussing the activities of national broadcasting, it has also been discussed at length in Parliament that Estonia's current cultural image should perhaps be more reflected in national broadcasting than it is today. I believe that if the National Broadcasting Council includes a person who is closely involved in the activities of Estonian performing institutions, not only as one theater leader, but also more generally, it could contribute to achieving this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U27	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said that eight candidates were on the Commission's agenda, and you said that the other candidates who did not turn out to be elected would not be more specific about and say how the votes were divided. But, for the sake of clarity, why don't you introduce the organisations and parties that proposed the four candidates who were elected?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U29	This is not reflected in the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 30 April. It wasn't the one who presented someone. It was the one who was presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U30	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Without asking the names, I would like to know how many women and how many men there were among the eight candidates.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U32	I do not think that this should necessarily remain a secret, but the Commission has not dealt with this calculation once again. Obviously, our natural attitude is that we are not looking at it from a gender perspective, but above all from a professional point of view. But I've got the papers in front of me and I'm gonna count the number of female candidates in front of you. Two out of eight candidates were female.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U33	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U34	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Would the Law on National Broadcasting need to be reviewed at any point in this Chamber? As you have even pointed out in one reply, national broadcasting as an institution should represent the Estonian cultural image in a wider sense. Perhaps we have looked at this law too narrowly, perhaps a few points should be reviewed for the future? There have been disputes about different topics in the media before. Perhaps a few points need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U35	Once again, as a representative of the Commission from this chair, I must say that this was not the case at this meeting of the Commission in this form. However, all these issues have been mentioned several times. It is possible that it would make sense to review the basis for the formation of the Council a little bit from the point of view of which districts could be represented in the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U36	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U37	Thank you. You mentioned that the minutes of the meeting do not include which political group has proposed one or the other candidate. As far as I am aware, the Committee on Culture has asked the various political groups to propose two candidates. When Members of the Commission voted, did they know which political group had proposed one candidate or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U38	As all members of the committee belong to one or another of the Riigikogu factions, they knew.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U39	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U40	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is about the question of Mr Imre Sooääre. As we know, the law now says that the experts appointed to the National Broadcasting Council must be experts in this area. However, as I understood from the report, the majority of the Commission considered that it might be useful if there were experts in other fields in the National Broadcasting Council. Without questioning the accuracy of this principle, I ask this question: is this noble principle correct or can it be applied at all before the law has been amended? For example, your party minister has thought that 16-year-old citizens could be allowed to choose. I think it's a pretty good idea, but at the same time I'd like to wait for 16-year-old ballot boxes to be added until this principle is written into the electoral law. Do you think that any good rule of law can be applied before it is permitted by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U41	The term "recognized expert in the field of broadcasting' is not actually opened in the National Broadcasting Act, but unwritten. It can be interpreted fairly freely. The Commission, as you can see from the result, has interpreted it from the perspective that I have highlighted in previous answers. The media are seen as a much wider area than any narrow field of expertise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U42	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U43	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am listening here to these questions with a critical undertone, and it comes to mind that the only serious experience in making media for public money, which has worked together between the Centre Party and the Soviets, is what has been done in Tallinn. If one of the media channels being made for public money can be inclined, it certainly is. I am pleased that the election of the National Broadcasting Council is transparent, public and understandable. In my opinion, all selected candidates are fully competent. But my question is whether the Committee on Culture discussed the balance between the various aspects of the national broadcasting programme. I understand that you cannot, of course, prescribe specific topics. But have you discussed, for example, the relationship between economic, cultural, sports and children's programmes, or is the Riigikogu discussing such matters at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U44	The structure of the national broadcasting programme as such does not fall directly within the competence of the Council. But it's been under discussion many times. Relatively recently, the Riigikogu Committee on Culture met with representatives of the current National Broadcasting Council. As has always been the case at the time, all the things that mattered about national broadcasting as a public service broadcasting activity were at issue from the wall to the wall. It is not directly what the proportions of the design of the programme are, but neither the Committee on Culture nor the National Broadcasting Council are to be appointed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U45	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did the Committee on Culture mention that a person who understands the problem of ethnic minorities could be a recognised expert? The story is that a few years ago, when ETV2 was created, it was said that national minorities would be able to get a wider voice there. At the moment, there are only two such programmes: 'Actual camera', which is broadcast in Russian every day, and 'Three Angle', which will end this spring. Has it also been said that more attention should be paid to ethnic minorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U47	No, at a specific meeting of the Committee on Culture, this issue was not a separate issue, but there is an opportunity for all to propose candidates to the Council. The political groups of the Riigikogu also had this opportunity, as you know. It is possible to bring any issue to the Council's attention more through the candidates submitted. But among the candidates we do not find a person who is primarily committed to minority issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U48	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U49	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Without mentioning the names, I must say that I cannot, however, understand how the candidates who have been elected today respond more to the idea of the law on national broadcasting than, for example, the previous head of the Council. But that's it. You said earlier that the members of the committee knew who the candidates proposed were elected. Can you still tell me who proposed the candidates to the council today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U50	First of all, it must be pointed out that all those who received so many votes in a secret ballot that their names could be entered in this draft decision, which is now before you, received more votes than could be expected on the basis of the number of representatives of only one political party in the Commission. So all the candidates who were elected received more votes than could be estimated by the political proportions in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U51	Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! My question is based on the question of Mr Kõivas and will consider whether the Council could propose a programme. I'm going to ask you as former Minister of Population to the former Minister of Population. Since the office of the Minister of Population no longer exists, there has been no broadcast on Estonian Television about raising children, although the birth rate and family policy are still very important for Estonia, I have understood that. Could the Council, however, propose the activities and programme of national broadcasting? This programme, which was broadcast several years ago, was also funded by the Minister of Population's Office with public money. Do you think that the Council could still make its proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U53	Intelligent people still talk to each other and can make various suggestions and suggestions to each other. However, it is not possible for the Council to provide any guidance that can be interpreted as precepts by the management body to the broadcasting executive. This would be a violation of the editorial independence principle, which is the most important principles of public broadcasting at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U54	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Can you confirm that all of the recognized professionals you present have a higher education degree?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U56	I can check it out right now. Three candidates have completed higher education and one candidate completes higher education in June of this year, one month later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U57	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Did it matter what kind of party these candidates belonged to? Do you think the new Council got a right-wing or a left-wing view?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U59	The political members of the National Broadcasting Council shall be appointed separately. As you know, these are members of the Riigikogu. Their mandate lasts as long as the powers of the Riigikogu. Party membership or non-Party membership of the rest should not play any role here. Another sign of this is what I have already pointed out in one response: all the candidates elected by the Commission received more votes than could have been expected on the basis of the presence of one or another political force in the Commission. This shows that all political groups represented in the Committee on Culture value candidates from the point of view of their expertise, not from the point of view of their political affiliation or partyhood.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U60	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U61	Thank you! Dear waitress, I understand that one of the selected candidates has unfinished higher education to speak the language of the people. It's hard for me to understand how you can say he's going to college in June. How can this be known in advance and agreed? I think it still depends on the knowledge of the candidate and the assessment of the institution. But I will come back to the question: can you tell us which of these four candidates were nominated by the organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U62	Thank you. As far as one of the anonymous members is concerned with the education that has not yet been completed, we simply hope that he will be able to complete his studies and that the institution where he is studying will find that he has done so in June. What organisations named these candidates? As I said, the nomination of Paavo Nõges was supported by a letter from the Estonian Association of Performance Institutions; the remaining candidates who have been elected should be presented by the political groups in the round of nominations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U63	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U64	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, What did the Commission blame the former Chairman of the National Broadcasting Council? It's been known to the media that he ran for office this time. Failure to submit his candidacy to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu means that you are not satisfied with his work so far. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U65	As provided for by law, order and practice, votes shall be secret. With the motive that none of the members of the Committee on Culture voted or did not vote in favour of the current head of the National Broadcasting Council, we do not know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U66	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U67	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Have the remaining candidates submitted two non-profit organisations, one of which is called the Reform Party and the other is named Isamaa and Res Publica Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U68	Maybe it is. But I would like to point out once again that the Committee on Culture and all the political forces represented in the Committee on Culture, which exist in the Riigikogu, have shown a very intelligent approach: they chose candidates in secret ballots, not on the basis of their party membership, but probably on the basis of something else. I hope they did so on the basis of the recognition of their expertise, because all these candidates received more votes than the proportion of the coalition and opposition in the Commission would have expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U69	Thank you. Every member of the Riigikogu can ask only one question. Any more questions? No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Paul-Eerik Rummo! I'm opening negotiations. Call chair Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As you've noticed, I'm not coming to this eloquence too often, but if I do, there's a reason for it, because I have something to say. I would like to put it to all of us that the appointment of renowned experts to the National Broadcasting Council is not party-political rubber stamp activity, but our responsibility to the electorate and, if you wish, our responsibility for the good functioning of society. We have just a simple vote before us; four men must be appointed for five years. If it were any business as usual, I wouldn't be standing here. I have been a journalist, by the way, twenty years, and for quite many years I worked in Estonian Radio and Estonian Television. I'm saying national broadcasting isn't just any business. Therefore, we must vote with special responsibility and appoint people who are truly worthy of it. The object of the vote is four people. According to the law, they must be chosen from among the recognised experts in the field of national broadcasting. In the Socialist Group, there was more than one question of hesitation and doubt as to how to look at names. You noticed how many questions came from our camp. I am not talking about whether a financial specialist is also a national broadcasting expert. He has been an expert for five years, and there is no doubt that he will be able to cope in the coming years. I am also not talking about whether a man representing a Norwegian media group in Estonia may be on the board over time in accordance with § 15 (1). (In accordance with this section, a member of the National Broadcasting Board may not have contractual relations with any media service provider.) However, I am talking about the fact that in the 21st century, the theater without higher education is a well-known expert in the field of national broadcasting in the Republic of Estonia. I'm sorry for the comparison, but it's about the same as Marianne Mikko saying she's Nicole Kidman. The French would yell at it: 'Quel brothel! ' And they would be right. The Social Democrats ask directly: if the theatre character is worthy of the Council, is the theatre of special significance in Estonia's life? Since there are dozens and dozens in the media, as the honourable Paul-Eerik Rummo spoke about, let us also mention the construction, energy and education specialists alongside the finance and theatre specialist and hundreds of other specialists who know different areas of life in Estonia. It would be fair, wouldn't it? As a party honoring equal opportunities, we cannot understand how it can be that a man's secondary education is a stronger test of gold than a woman's media doctorate. This is at a time when the European Union attaches great importance to the greater involvement of women in Councils across Europe. How can it be signed in 2012 that all members of the National Broadcasting Council are of one sex? Consider who our society is, our friends! Society is made up of men and women. Consider who works on the air and on the screen! Both female and male journalists do so. Why, then, do we want to put the national broadcasting, which reflects and reflects Estonian society, in a body dominated by one sex? I will summarise the position of the SDE Group. Social Democrats, pay attention, gentlemen reformers! just can't and doesn't want to violate the current Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. If we voted in favour of this National Broadcasting Council today, we would be acting illegally. By representing our constituents and wishing to be law-abiding MPs, we have reached a common position: the SDE Group will vote against the recognised experts in the field of national broadcasting. We also call on all Members to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U71	Thank you. Please, any more requests? There's no more calls. It is proposed by the commission that the draft be put to the final vote 227. We'll start preparing for it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of recognized experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting', presented by the Committee on Culture, draft 227. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 23 against and 1 abstention. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U72	We are going to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on the election of the European Parliament, the election of the local government council, the referendum law, the election of the Riigikogu and the amendment of other laws, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Andres Herkel, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 186 of the European Parliament Election Act, the Local Government Council Election Act, the Referendum Act, the Riigikogu Election Act and the Act amending other laws is the result of a pretty long-term preparatory work in the Riigikogu's composition. Why is the bill necessary? As we know, Estonia has been using electronic voting mode since 2005. It has already been used five times in elections, this mode of election is increasingly being used, and as a result a number of regulations need to be clarified. Since there are a number of doubts as to whether electronic selection is secure, there is a need for further confirmation that this is an election fashion. This also leads to the need for auditing and verification, which is highlighted in this draft. I'm gonna go back a little bit. On 9 June last year, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs set up a working group on the development of electronic voting, consisting of representatives of all political groups. This working group was led by our colleague Valdo Randpere, and Priit Vinkel, Chairman of the Election Commission of the Republic of Estonia, was also involved in Heiki Sibul, legal scientist Ülle Madise and adviser to the Office of the Riigikogu Elections Department. The group presented the results of its work to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in November. It's quite a lot of material. 13 proposals are highlighted here, most of which require legislative changes. After that, a number of experts were heard in the Commission, who had already been heard earlier by the working group, and we prepared this draft. It is also of little importance to note that the OSCE/ODIHR proposals for the Estonian elections have also been taken into account here. As we know, Estonia is not the kind of country where the OSCE/ODIHR would organise regular election monitoring and observation, but we are particularly interested in e-voting as pioneers. A report on the Estonian elections was also submitted last year. Now I will talk more about the substance of the bill. The draft concerns the following remaining proposals: Firstly, a separate selection committee consisting of specialists is set up to organise electronic voting, which is directly responsible for the organisation of electronic voting. According to the draft, the e-vote will be set up by the Election Commission of the Republic. We have been talking about this committee being seven. These specialists have also been active in the electoral commission today, but they have worked on a contractual basis. Secondly, the procedure for the cancellation of electronic votes, as well as for the non-starting, termination, suspension of electronic voting, and for the invitation of voters to vote by traditional means, is laid down. So far, there has not been a fallback measure in the event of major failures or disruptions in electronic voting. The position is that there should be such a possibility. Thirdly, it provides for the possibility of repealing the electronic vote. This may very rarely happen in practice that such a need arises, but it should nevertheless be possible to do so, analogous to the withdrawal of the vote on paper. The theoretical possibility is that the number of the candidate who does not stand as a candidate in the electoral district in which the voter resides is recorded in the electronic vote. In such a case, the vote on the paper shall be null and void, and in the future the vote by electronic means may also be revoked. Fourthly, there is a requirement for auditing the electronic voting system. It is therefore important to increase the transparency and credibility of electronic voting. This issue has also been discussed for a very long time. As explained above, audits should probably be of a three-step nature: before the start of the vote, immediately after the results of the vote have been established and within a month of the election day. Fifthly, the Election Commission of the Republic establishes by regulation the procedures for organising electronic voting and identifying the results of the electronic voting, as well as the basic regulations for the electoral information system and the electronic voting system. This is primarily about a separate regulation, which will also include new provisions compared to the current general regulation. The sixth, extremely important issue: the electorate will be allowed to check that the electronic vote he has given is reached in the electronic voting system. This has probably been the most labour-intensive issue we discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs even before the draft was launched. The voter must be given the assurance that his electronic voice has indeed arrived and is taken into account in the way the voter's will was. The exact technical solution for the verification is also under discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs today. How it works, I guess I can't stop at that much longer. Seventhly, the proposal that came from the political groups of the Riigikogu in the course of the work: the results of the electronic voting will be established and made public with the accuracy of the polling department. If you look at the election results on the Homepage of the Election Commission of the Republic, you will see that electronic votes are separately in one column, they are not highlighted with the precision of the polling station. We will now see an opportunity to do so. Given the growing popularity of the electronic voting method, the principle of secrecy of voting is not likely to suffer either. I mean, for the first time, it may have happened in a small place that only one electronic voice had been given to the station. If you make it public, it's a violation of electoral secrecy. We don't see that threat right now. The eighth issue has given rise to a great deal of talk, and I should dwell on this last debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The proposal equates the times of pre-voting and electronic voting currently taking place in polling stations. Voters shall be treated as equally as possible. The vote would start from the 10th to the fourth day before the election day, i.e. as the electronic vote has so far taken place. The draft provides for an additional option: if, in the past, all polling stations were open from day six to day four, then it is now foreseen that the county centres will also have the possibility to choose from day 10 to day 7 before the election day. The ninth proposal has obviously attracted even greater interest. On election day, the restrictions on electoral intervention outside the voting district will be lifted. The argument is that 43% of the people voted in the last elections before the election day either in the pre-vote or in the electronic vote, and if this trend gets worse, the ban on electoral agitation does not make sense any more. But I very much say that the position of the Government of the Republic, which was presented to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, highlighted that the ban on electoral agitation in Estonia has become a perceived electoral part of the electoral process. This, too, can be an important asset to protect. If this point in the law makes people feel that the protection of the electoral peace may somehow deteriorate or be lost, then the Commission is probably willing to consider changing it, or continuing to do so in the old way. The regulations on the organisation of electronic voting will be specified by 10th. I also proactively say that we had further discussion, that is, the drafting of a common electoral code, so that we do not have separate laws for elections to the European Parliament, the Riigikogu and local government councils, so that there are not so many confusing references and that it can all be consolidated. However, we did leave this for the future work, because there was another proposal that the working group on electronic voting made for us. It is that we can also use the electronic registers of voters on election day. We are probably not ready for this in the forthcoming elections, either in the 2013 local elections or in the 2014 European Parliament elections. This change would significantly change our electoral practice. This would mean that if we talk again about the constituency and districts, if this list, which is used electronically, is in the 'one-stop shop', then a person may no longer go to the polling district of his place of residence, but can vote in every polling district within the same district, his vote is recorded and the possibility of re-voting is completely excluded. However, since there is probably no technical readiness to do so yet, there are more possibilities for the following changes to electoral laws. Now I am talking about the Commission's debate, where we decided to send the draft to first reading. The debate took place on 16 April. By that time, the position of the Government of the Republic had also been expressed, to which I have already referred. Minister of Justice Kristen Michal himself attended the meeting of the Commission. There are some technical nuances in the opinion of the Government of the Republic. We are most grateful to the Ministry of Justice for the additional analysis they have carried out on the work we have initiated. The main issues were the ban on agitation, which has already been mentioned here, which we have discussed once again, and whether the preliminary vote and the electronic vote should take place in sync, on exactly the same days. In either case, I do not believe that there are any dramatic issues in relation to the substance of the draft. They can be solved either way. Many members of the Commission pointed out this, or at least one of them pointed out it, expressing their view against the withdrawal of the electoral campaign ban, that communicating with people gives the impression that the campaign peace has become a separate value. Once again, these rational considerations, which speak in favour of abolishing this restriction, should perhaps retreat to this value. The Commission also took decisions at its meeting on 16 April: to send a draft to 186 plenary sessions today, 8 May, to conclude the first reading, to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 6 p.m. on 22 May and to appoint a rapporteur. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U74	Thank you very much. We go to questions and answers. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Electronic voting is not a matter of itself; it is part of the organisation of elections. This draft, too, cannot do without provisions on the organisation of elections in general. How have these choices been made, and why did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs now focus on only one topic? It is known that there are other questions in society. The Riigikogu would also be closer to the people (with both quotes and no quotes) if it were more understandable how the votes were transferred. Will there also be issues such as the termination of compensation mandates on the common list and other matters related to the common list?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U76	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U77	Thank you. The draft will be dealt with in the normal course of action in this respect, so that all issues concerning the laws under amendment can be raised through amendments and then discussed by the Commission. The working group on electronic voting certainly did not aim to make any further changes to the electoral system, even if they concern nuances, such as the transition to open lists, the allocation of all mandates in a particular district, etc. This analysis was certainly not taken up by the electronic voting committee. The question of why these aspects were at stake can be answered: As I pointed out, we are still pioneers in the world in the field of electronic voting. Some other flagship projects have been carried out here and there, for example, in the local elections in Norway, it was used in a limited way, in one district or another. Here you can also talk about experiences of some kind. But we must be prepared, among other things, for possible attacks. We must maintain a general understanding of the reliability of the electronic vote. Hence the requirements and needs of verification and auditing. Given also that the proportion of e-voting in the electorate has increased steadily, linearly, over the five times that e-voting has been allowed, we have a special responsibility to make this really happen safely. Experience has not been negative, but there have been bottlenecks that can be changed. Consequently, the emphasis on this draft is an electronic vote, which, I repeat, does not prevent anyone from coming up with amendments. I do recommend that a new draft be submitted on other issues of the electoral law and the electoral system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U78	Thank you. Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I have a question about the verification of votes, that is, verification. This is undoubtedly a very exciting solution. However, I am interested in the procedure for dealing with the incident, which may have something to do with it. Let me give you a simple example. We expect the voter to discover that the voice went wrong when he checked his e-voice. He can't go to the station because he's abroad. What will happen to his voice: will it be cancelled, it will remain in force, or will there be a third option? What law will regulate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U80	Thank you for that question. Surely such a spoiled voice cannot remain in force. We have so far been arguing about the level at which voice control can take place. As I pointed out, we are also discussing today in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs how this would be most convenient for the electorate. We are based on the fact that not all those participating in the e-vote will use this control procedure. Maybe it's a relatively small percentage of them. However, it must also be possible to ensure that the incident is handled and the security and credibility of the electronic vote must be guaranteed in a comprehensive manner. It is important whether a specific hacker can be detected, whether there is a larger alarm in the system than one person's voice, and to draw conclusions from it. It is secured in the draft with all the possibilities relating to the suspension of electronic voting where necessary. However, when it comes to the question, it must be said that a multi-level structure could be envisaged to address the various problems in a comprehensive way. That's the memo we've been given. I repeat, today the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is discussing this. Firstly, support services for voters: telephone and e-mail, where you can turn in case of problems. The next step is technical support consisting of a central unit and on-site units, i.e. on-call engineers. There must be an exit to the scene so that the circumstances of a possible attack can be quickly identified. This is followed by the e-voting committee and, at the top of the hierarchy, the Republic Election Commission, which deals with the most serious cases. There may be different conclusions: whether it is possible to vote again electronically, whether other equipment should be used in the event of equipment failure, or whether it is necessary to participate in the pre-voting process at the polling station. I hope that I was able to respond proactively to this very important question concerning the security of the elections. We have discussed this, as I said, repeatedly in the Commission and have come to the conclusion that, in any case, the technical solution should be clear to us before we adopt the draft as a law. It's not 100 percent clear to us right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U81	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment and updating of electoral laws is certainly welcome, as the main focus of the draft is to clarify the organisation of electronic elections and this certainly needs to be done. In Estonia, electronic voting has been used a total of five times and electronic voting has become more popular. In the last elections to the Riigikogu, a quarter of the voters voted electronically. This shows that it is absolutely necessary to address this issue seriously. SDE supports the idea of setting up a separate selection panel composed of specialists for the organisation of electronic voting. It is to be welcomed that the new draft provides for the auditing of the e-voting system at the level of the law and gives the hope that the voter will be able to verify whether the electronic vote he has given has been correctly transmitted to the electronic voting system. In addition to all the technical and organisational innovations that should make e-voting more and better, it is certainly essential that the results of the electronic voting are known in the future with the precision of the polling district. In the meantime, they were made public with precision in the constituency. This will certainly increase the transparency and credibility of electronic voting. However, I would like to point out the intention of abolishing the restrictions on electoral intervention on election day as the only, but very important, negative factor. It is as if it were creating or should create a level playing field with pre- and e-voting when voting at the ballot box. Ladies and gentlemen, SDE supports the completion of the first reading of the draft, but let us not violate one good and functional principle of electoral organisation. I think the person who wants to cast his vote on election day wants to do it peacefully on his way to the polling station. I don't think he'd enjoy it if the last kilometer before the polling district had to pass through tents of different colours, where candidates tried to take the last one and distribute their remaining electoral material. Rather, in order to meet society's expectations, we could act the other way around and reduce the campaign's volume. To this end, an upper limit should be set for election costs. But this is already a separate discussion. Although this happens very rarely recently, this time the SDE agrees with the government that allowing electoral agitation on election day is not a sensible proposal. We certainly do not support this point in the draft and, for our part, will propose an appropriate amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U83	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U84	Thank you. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to close the first reading of draft 186. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 186 amendments. May 22, 2005 at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U85	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Andres Herkel. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Kajar Lember as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! If it is now moving in the direction that it is possible to verify where that voice went and whether it arrived in the e-elections, how can the voter using the paper note verify that his note was read and, precisely, according to his wishes? Doesn't that put hitchhikers on paper at a disadvantage? Is there no preference for an electronic vote here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U87	Thank you. This issue has been completely highlighted in the discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as such a fishing mour. In the case of a paper vote, it is not really the case that the hitchhiker changes his mind or has someone put his hand in the ballot box and take the note out to see what he wrote down there. In this sense, the question is absolutely correct. You can't get crazy when you check your electronic voice either. At the moment, this is the possibility (I am now going to read the description of the technical scheme in detail) that a corresponding cryptogram, or digitally signed voice, will be uploaded from the electoral server to the mobile device for verification. In addition, the control code will be uploaded from the selector's computer to the mobile device and photographed with this cryptogram. As a result of the check, the selection of the voter will be displayed on the screen of the mobile device. The check is carried out entirely on a mobile device where no trace is left, and nothing is stored. It guarantees the secrecy of the voice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U88	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U89	Dear waitress, In your presentation, you discussed problems with the electronic list of voters and said that this was the next stage. We also talked about it several times in the working group. But why don't you explain what Article 1 (6) of the bill means in this case, which states that electronic lists of voters will be forwarded to the electronic voting committee no later than the 13th day before the election day? It's like these lists are there and they can be transmitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U90	Thank you. This probably has to be clarified, but the fact that we do not have electronic lists that would allow the vote to be fixed or allow the voter to vote in any department within the circle does not mean that electoral lists are not used in advance or transmitted on electronic media. I don't know how to comment on that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U91	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You also referred for a moment to the OSCE delegation's report. Can you tell us what proposals for this report have been taken into account by your committee at the moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U93	Thank you. This report talks about elections in general; it talks about minority rights, the proportion of men and women, for example. One of the problems that arose there is the opportunity for prisoners to vote. However, we maintained the need for a clear and clear discussion of the proposals concerning the electronic vote. The OSCE/ODIHR's understanding is also that there is a need to move towards controllability of the electronic voice and auditing of the system. The answer is that almost everything concerning the electronic vote was taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U94	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! If we vote on paper, it is, of course, possible to vote for either one candidate or another, but it is possible, for example, to put a tick behind the name of all the candidates or to write a message on the note and thus show your mind. As a result, the note is invalid, but some of its positions on elections or politicians have been published by the electorate. Have you discussed that there should also be a possibility in the electronic vote that if you do not suggest that someone should vote, an invalid electronic sample could be made? Then electronic and paper voting would be equal in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U96	Thank you. There are different forms of protest, including non-voting. In some countries, the ballot paper has a cell in which all are voted against when ticking. This is not the case in Estonia. I think that your question has been resolved, inter alia, by the fact that the draft will give rise to the possibility of declaring the electronic vote null and void by using the number of a candidate who is not a candidate in this district, which has somehow succeeded in sending in the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U97	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, After the last elections, the speed at which the results of electronic voting were destroyed caused a certain amount of taboo. It happened when I wasn't fooled by my memory for about a week after the election. After that, it's completely pointless to tell whether something was ruined or not. Did you also discuss in the Commission how the results of the electronic voting should be archived and what minimum time should be provided to preserve these results? I would remind you that the situation is extremely paradoxical. The elections were held a little over a year ago, but 26% of them have left no trace.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U99	Thank you. The question was, yes. The understanding is that electronic voices and the votes on paper are both to be destroyed if my memory doesn't deceive me, within a month. So this week you pointed out would be a month. I found this place in the explanatory memorandum: 'The vote will be preserved for one month, as will the sound of the paper. Then the electronic voices will be destroyed. The personal data of voters contained in the electronic voting system shall also be destroyed in order to ensure voting secrecy. The key to unlocking electronic votes will also be destroyed. '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U100	Thank you. Please, Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'm asking about the loss of active election agitation. During the last elections, there was such a situation at Salme Cultural Centre, for example, that there was also a concert at the same time. As a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, how would you like this situation if you were to go there on election day and you were to be welcomed by young people from a certain group who would give you a flyer inviting you to the concert, you would go to the hall, you would watch the fairy tale performance 'Laughter', where the participants were all candidates on one list, and then you would go to a happy vote? Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U102	Thank you. First of all, I would point out that these restrictions differ, after all, from election day to day, and from building to which elections are held. Even in the building where the preliminary vote is taking place, there can be no agitation. We've had some examples where it took the form of a jook scheme. It is said that there will be such a great concert for the people of the district, but in fact, not even in a very hidden way, but quite directly, attention will be drawn to the approaching elections when, for example, the district manager is running. So this situation, which you put forward as an example, is vital. But, as I said, maintaining or abolishing this ban is not the main issue of this draft. If we sense danger, we'll change this place. Among other things, an overview by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu of how the electoral campaign ban or campaign peace in one or other European Union country has been established has been completed. You know, this picture is going to split in two. In 13 countries, agitation is prohibited at that time, including Estonia. At the same time, there are a whole range of countries in our immediate neighbourhood - Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Latvia, where no such ban has been imposed, nor is it in Germany.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U103	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I ask on this very subject, which has already been asked several times: to obtain some kind of confirmation or knowledge after the electronic vote has been given that that vote has actually been given. If I go to the ballot box at the polling station, I've been to the booth before, I've filled out the note, and then I'm gonna put it in that box, then it's all over for me: the note is in the box, what I wrote there is secret and that's how it's supposed to be. How can an electronic election move away from the requirement of uniformity in elections and give, I will use your own example, through some kind of mobile device, an opportunity for the voter to see what his electronic choice was? If you use an analogy with a paper note, it would mean that you can take an envelope from the ballot box and see what I wrote on that note. We do not have a proper technical solution at the moment either. Why are we even doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U105	Thank you. This is a question that has been raised several times. However, it seems to me that we are moving towards this technical solution. Like I said, there's nothing left that can be stored. If a person really wants to, he'll get that confirmation. In our discussions, we have come to the conclusion that there may be cases of maliciousness or some kind of memory weakness, when a person comes to the conclusion that the electronic voice that he sent away and what is shown to him at the check differ, even though they do not actually differ. Such things must also be taken into account. In such a case, the handling of an incident should bring the truth to life as to whether a person has erred or not. Now, from this summary question, why do we even have to deal with this shit? To be honest, in the meantime, the Commission also came to this question. But, let's just say, our technical advisors have considered it possible that, given the popular nature of the electronic voting method, it could become a fascinating target for attackers with different motivations, and at least theoretically, it is possible to create a vermin that allows the voter to change or block the vote. Even the theoretical risk, however, may call into question the legitimacy of the elections, which we certainly do not want. This suggests that voice could be verifiable and incident handling could be possible in order to minimise both potential risks and statements against the overall credibility of the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U106	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U107	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The world's largest Internet security company, Symantec, has just published its annual report on Internet security. There's a pretty long chapter dedicated to mobile phone security. According to these statistics, the number of malware in mobile phones, especially smartphones, has increased by 100% over the past year. You said there was nothing on the phone during the voting process. But does this system make it possible to rule out that there is malware in the cell phone that stores each keystroke and transmits it to third parties? Is there any way to control it? If not, the secrecy of the vote would be questioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U108	Thank you. I hope that this can be verified, but my technical knowledge certainly does not allow an exhaustive answer to this question. If you don't mind, I'd be happy to pass this on to the specialists. They will come before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U109	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns voting by electronic means. The lifting of votes within the limits of competence will certainly be dealt with in an operational and rapid manner, but if the entire e-vote is repealed, it is likely that a re-vote will have to be taken. Was there a debate in the Commission or in the working groups when and how the re-vote will take place and who will take part in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U111	Thank you. I hope this extreme case can never happen. But I have already indicated that there must be a sequential approach, starting locally from the level of technical support and electoral support, and reaching the electronic voting committee and the Republic Election Commission, so that it can be established whether a systemic failure or disorder is so serious that it should take such an extreme step. But we have to have a spare of those opportunities in our pockets somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Germany is one of the countries that have used e-elections, but in 2009 it was decided to abandon this electoral fashion, because the German Constitutional Court declared e-elections to be unconstitutional, although four years ago the e-elections had been used. I ask because we do not have anything similar to do so, so that we use e-elections, but at one point the Supreme Court says that they have been in conflict with the Constitution: could the Riigikogu not address the Chancellor of Justice or the Supreme Court for an assessment within the framework of the procedure for this draft? After all, with this draft, we are fundamentally and substantially changing the e-election procedure, for example, in this very question of verification. What do you think of this proposal or idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U113	Thank you. In the case of verification, this issue could only arise if the verification went so far as to question the principle of election secrecy. For e-voting in Estonia to be something unconstitutional, I deeply doubt that. Given the competence of the Chancellor of Justice and other officials, these problems would have been highlighted earlier. But indeed, verification must not go too far, so the principle of secrecy suffers. It is worth keeping this in mind, and that is what has been meant in search of a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U114	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, please explain why e-elections can repeatedly change their voice. This option does not exist when choosing a paper record. Different forms of election should be as similar as possible. Should we not consider a one-off vote in e-elections, or should people be offered the possibility of doing this procedure repeatedly when choosing a paper ballot?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U116	Thank you. This possibility of amendment has even been reduced, after all, at the very beginning there was an opportunity to withdraw the e-voice by going to the polling district on election day and voting there. I know that the question of why this is the case was also raised in the working group on electronic voting. Your party and many others have also expressed doubts that we cannot be quite sure that a person is not under any pressure when giving an e-voice. In order to rule out a situation where a person cannot best realise his or her free will when giving an e-voice, he or she must be given a spare opportunity so that he or she can change his or her voice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U117	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U118	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! However, I do not entirely agree with you that repealing an electronic voice will solve the problem I raised. In order to be able to vote for a candidate who is a candidate in another district, there must be an error in the system or intentionally break into the system and change it so that he can vote for another candidate, which would mean breaking the law. But that's it. My question concerns a slightly different subject. On page 15 of the explanatory memorandum, we read that the imprecise request for voting on the website of the Election Commission of the Republic has been waived. Indeed, the last votes have not been web-based, but have taken place through another application. Please tell me if these votes have been illegal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U119	No, I do not think that previous votes have been illegal. We're just going to move on with the development of the system. As regards the desire you have expressed for the possibility of a protest vote, it must be said that e-voting is not compulsory. A person can make his own choice as to the means of voting that he or she will use.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U120	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U121	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! How will the anonymity of the voters be ensured? The main aim of the secrecy of the vote is to keep the person and the vote separate, to rule out any connection between them. In line with the principle of secrecy, how is it possible to check the arrival of your voice afterwards? The person and the vote he has given can then be linked, but then we cannot talk about a secret vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U122	Thank you. I indicated that the returning signal, along with the corresponding electronic codes, would go to the hitchhiker's own mobile device, and there would be no trace of it. I think secrecy is guaranteed, such a technical solution is possible. We are looking for just such a technical solution that secrecy is guaranteed and that signal will reach the person who casts the vote. No one else can re-identify it against his will.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U123	Thank you. Please, Andrei Korobeinik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U124	Dear waitress, I was thinking about canceling my vote. If the electoral committee cannot verify whether the voter is telling the truth or not, does this control code really not work? The picker may have just figured it all out. Does this mean that, on the basis of a voter's statement, his vote can simply be cancelled? You said, in answer to the question, that that voice would certainly not remain in force. Does this mean that if the voter claims that the check doesn't match, his vote will be cancelled manually?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U125	Thank you. Maybe I was a little inaccurate. First of all, when dealing with this incident, it must be made clear whether the voter himself was accurate. For example, it may have been an entirely malicious inaccuraction. The system shall be capable of making this clear. As regards the possibility of lifting the vote, this question has just arisen. The voter can do this by means of repeated electronic voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U126	We are going to the fourth item on the agenda today, which is the first reading of the draft amendment to § 48 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A similar draft, which does not deal with the employer's expenditure on workers' health as a special benefit, but as a necessary investment, is protected earlier from this Riigikogu board. This was last discussed in the Riigikogu on 22 September 2009, or during the previous Riigikogu. Although the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to support this draft at the time, it was nevertheless voted out of the procedure in the Chamber at first reading. If you look at what happened to this draft last time, in the context of today's agenda, it is probably appropriate to draw a parallel with the Employment Contracts Act. In 2009, various cuts were made and additional burdens were imposed on several groups of society. Something good was promised to those interested parties to bear the greater burden. But the promises were not fulfilled. In 2009, when employers were obliged to cover five sick days in the event of a possible illness of an employee, they were allowed to have health expenditure free of the special preferential tax. Today we are again before the Riigikogu with the same proposal. I am pleased to say in advance that the Commission will support a more substantive debate on this issue by consensus this time. Why should health expenditure in Estonia be strongly encouraged? Because international studies also say that we have a poor record of human health. The UN Human Development Report warns that from all countries of the European Union, it is Estonian men who are most likely to die before the age of 60. The European Union collects a wide range of health data on Member States. According to one statistical survey, the population of 27 countries compares to how long people live without chronic health problems, Estonia is in a very bad position. According to the survey, only 49 years of healthy life have been spent by Estonian men in the European Union. True, our Statistics Estonia gives men three years of healthy life and says that chronic health problems hit an average Estonian man in the age of 52. But in both cases, this means that one third of your productive working life must be taken pills. A person with health problems automatically means spending on the health insurance fund in Estonia. The shrinking ability of people to work also has a significant impact on the achievement of the country's economic policy objectives. Any investment in the health of workers will therefore save state medical costs and benefit the state and businesses from working hours. If health is so poor that taking medicines alone is no longer enough, then at worst this means an early pension for the worker. For the state, a person who has retired prematurely means the loss of a taxpayer and an increase in pension costs. It is therefore important for the Estonian state that the people of Estonia are healthy. In the context of an ageing population and a decline in the share of the working age population, the state has a duty to take steps to help maintain people's ability to work to a high age. The tax change proposed would be one factor that would positively shape workers' athletic habits in order to prevent disease, reduce the incidence of health problems and improve overall well-being. According to the tax logic in Estonia, investments in buildings and equipment are exempt from income tax, while investments in the health of employees are subject to special preferential tax. In fact, we should take a more caring view of our human resources. This is not only said by the current opposition parties, but is also put to the hearts of all parties in the manifesto of employers, which was published before the last elections in the Riigikogu. The employer's manifesto stated that it would be acceptable for those who employ workers to encourage investment in human capital by businesses during the new period of governance. To this end, the employer's investment in financing workers' health care expenditure must be exempted from the special incentive tax. We, too, believe that the abolition of the special preferential tax on these expenditures will make the business environment more transparent. There is no tax to be avoided, and the fear that the employer may in future pay a salary, for example by allowing people to take part in sports events or by paying for the rent of a gym is probably not very important. No employee will likely accept it if his salary is reduced, but he may be motivated to adopt a more athletic lifestyle. I am now talking about possible costs if the employer no longer has to pay a special incentive tax for favouring the sports activities of its employees. According to the information provided by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, employers make minimal expenditure on improving workers' health. But there are some expenses they can make to improve health without paying a special discount tax, for example, they can compensate for the cost of glasses or send workers to an occupational doctor. According to the Health and Safety at Work Act, a number of obligations have been imposed on the employer, the costs of which are entrepreneurship-related costs, but if the employer wishes to cover the costs of occupational safety and health at work in excess of what is prescribed by the law, this is the special benefit costs that are included in the "Other special benefit tax' in the data of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. The direct amounts have not been written off in the state budget, but the research firm Praxis has carried out a study according to which, at present, approximately 0,3% of the total special preferential tax payable is based on a special preferential tax linked to an investment in workers' health. This means that if the special preferential tax received was EUR 21847756 and EUR 34287449, the tax would be reduced by 0,3% or EUR 65500, which is 0,028% of the total income tax received, and the social tax would be reduced by EUR 102862, which is 0,005% of the total social tax received. But surely such expenses would not only mean tax costs for us, but the health care system and the health insurance fund would win back the money in full. Speaking of the fact that the draft certainly has a very broad support group, it has to be said that the government union programme has promised that by 2014 45% of the Estonian population will be covered by regular exercise instead of 35%. Since nothing has been done so far, we are in some ways handing out a helping hand so that the excellent increase in the number of people living in Estonia who are actively moving can have clearer boundaries for the year after next. I will talk about the technical aspects of this bill. The purpose of the draft is to exempt from the special advantage the employer's expenditure on sports activities of an employee or servant not exceeding EUR 500 per employee or employee in the calendar year. When the draft is adopted, a good assumption is created that the risk of occupational diseases for workers will be reduced, motivation will increase and health will improve. It is likely that a person who has been encouraged to engage in health sports, for example, will begin to make his or her habits healthier at all. The bill extends the circle of people to whom swimming pools, sports halls and health sports events become more accessible, and more businesses are beginning to worry about the health of their workers. Finally, if we compare this draft with the draft discussed in 2009, there are three points in its text: the cost of using sports facilities, the cost of participating in recreational and health sports events and the cost of organising sporting events. It is clearly written out on which no special preferential tax is payable. In 2009, the party associates of the Minister of Finance thought that if the Finance Minister's regulation could introduce these exceptions, this could lead to a very wide range of health services being exempted from the special preferential tax. At the moment, that choice is narrow. We are based on the principle that we start with small health promotion measures and, if we work together well, we move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U128	Thank you very much. George Jaanson has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U129	Thank you. Your approach is very reasonable, but the connection to sport is a little blurred. Health and productivity are, as you know, the foundation of an active and healthy lifestyle. But when it comes to sports, the sports habits of people on top of you are different. Sports can be done both in the gym, in the ball game hall and in the forest trail by skiing or running. According to the bill, the employer pays the first fees for the use of the hall and participation in events. But what expenses could he pay for outdoor healthists who do not want to take part in sporting events? How would equal treatment be ensured for sports enthusiasts?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U130	Thank you. The principle of the bill is certainly not that every worker in Estonia must accept such an advantage from his employer in a compulsory manner. If a person still does not want to practice whole life, he will not be forced to do so by law. But let's just say there are different ways to exercise in the fresh air. Unless you recommend taking part in a public sports event during a marathon distance, it is possible to take a walk at a public sports event that is affordable for everyone. However, participation fees may not be affordable for everyone at the moment. The draft provides an opportunity but does not impose any obligations on the staff member.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U131	Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U132	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. I very much support this idea, and I also find it unreasonable and unfair that we do not tax investment in machinery and equipment, but we tax investment in people. In the long run, it will certainly take revenge on the country. Today, you are proposing to exempt sports costs from the special preferential tax of EUR 500 per year. Could this exemption not be extended, for example, from influenza vaccine to dental care or rehabilitation? We know that all of this is very expensive and the country compensates for it minimally, but it plays a very important role in human health. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U133	In 2009, when employers were obliged to pay for five sick days, the negotiations also discussed that employers should be more interested, for example, in vaccination of workers and support for wider health promotion. At that time, there was indeed talk of a wider promotion of health. Since in 2009 the Government Union, consisting of the Reform Party and the IRL, was opposed to the withdrawal of the wider health promotion from the special preferential tax, we are now trying to narrowly address sport issues. However, to come to the question, I say that we take it as a first step. The electoral promises of the members of the majority of the Riigikogu apparently included broader health promotion costs. If you read the IRL electoral promise, you can see that they made a much more generous promise than the draft: companies must be given the possibility of using up to EEK 100000 per employee per year, i.e. EUR 6391 for voluntary pension insurance contributions, training for employees or sports, health care or health insurance. So roughly three-quarters of this hall is in favour of a wider health promotion tax exemption, but we are trying to support sports lifestyles as a first step.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U134	Please, Jüri Jaanson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U135	On the previous question, I have just stressed that participating in any sporting event is a matter of time and not everyone wants to do it, but nevertheless this person may have a healthy lifestyle. But now a little bit on the other hand. Health sports and active physical exercise are very welcome for health, but recreational sport also includes the element of competition. It can also mean sports in extreme, injury - threatening sports that even need to be insured separately. Injuries, diseases and exhaustion caused by possible over-sporting are known to cost the state budget. How do you think this side of the bill is in line with health promotion and the expectations of productivity growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U136	Thank you. I'm sure you know a lot more about reaching exhaustion because of sport than I do. If one of us were to give a talk about how sport can wear people out and damage their ability to work, it would probably be you, not me. However, the bill also includes a certain volume. For 500 euros a year, no one can train themselves as an Olympic winner. The money for which an employee can afford additional athletic opportunities is slightly more than 40 euros per month. You know, it's more than nothing. The change made today may not lead to an increase in life expectancy next year, but in the long term, an athletic lifestyle will certainly save the expenses of the Health Insurance Fund, and this will undoubtedly benefit the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U137	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U138	Thank you. Dear waitress, It may seem that my question has been borne out of personal curiosity, but it is not, in fact, the case. I just want to get to know all the backgrounds better, find out what kind of sport you're in, and maybe you're even president of a sports federation or something. Enlighten us, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U139	Thank you. The draft does not result from my personal interest in obtaining 40 euros per month from the employer. I am not the president of any sports federation and I think that the draft will benefit a much larger number of Estonian workers than are professional sports federations. The draft provides an opportunity to pay for the rental of a gym in the event of team activities, which gives large companies the opportunity to support the participation of their employees in public sports events without any possible diversions and also gives companies the opportunity to support the organisation of sporting events. There are many sporting events now, but there are never too many sports events where people, for example, can find an active outlet in the open air. The draft was already under discussion in the Riigikogu when I was not in the Riigikogu. This debate has been long and its sources date back to 1999 when the principles of taxation were changed in Estonia. I happened to defend this draft here because the Centre Party Group stood up for this draft during the previous and previous membership.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U140	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U141	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! The Social Democrats certainly support the Central Party's proposal to exempt sport expenditure to a certain extent from the special preferential tax. You can count on our support for this bill. As you said, you will start with a smaller step, sports spending, and you will move towards health spending on a larger scale. A short time ago, the Social Democrats presented a draft law which exempts health promotion from the special preferential tax in addition to supporting sport. In turn, can we count on your support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U142	Thank you for your question. In fact, excluding health promotion costs from the special preferential tax does not only mean costs to the State. At present, businesses are very often failing to do so, but in the long term it will return to the country either through drug bills or through treatment queues. So today's investment in human health is tomorrow's savings. We share this view. This Riigikogu could certainly show that employers are now a little rewarded in return for the obligations imposed on employers in 2009 if they are responsible and support the healthy way of life of workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U143	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kadri Simson. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of Erki Noole, member of the Chair Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 184 amending § 48 of the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Central Party Group, was on the agenda of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for the first time. a on April 16th. The bill was presented to us by Kalev Kallo, a member of the Centre Party Group. What is the purpose of the bill? The purpose of the draft is to exempt the employer's expenditure in support of the activity of an employee or servant in sport from the special preferential tax if it does not exceed EUR 500 per employee or employee in the calendar year. I repeat, which is not considered as a special advantage within the meaning of this draft: the cost of using sports facilities, the cost of participating in recreational and health sports events and the cost of organising sporting events. On 2 April, the Ministry of Finance delivered an opinion to the Monetary Commission on behalf of the Government of the Republic. According to this, the Government of the Republic does not support the draft. I'll get the reasons. The special benefit is a specific type of remuneration which is subject to income and social tax. Tax exemptions must be very clearly justified, the most appropriate and efficient way of achieving the desired result. In the view of the Government of the Republic, this is not the case with this draft. Only working people would benefit from the tax credit, whose employer agrees to compensate for the expenditure included in the draft. Every new tax credit will make tax administration more difficult and expensive and increase the risk of tax fraud. If this special advantage had been exempted from income and social tax, covering the employee's sports costs would be a much more attractive way to pay the employee compared to pay, and these costs would increase considerably. I am also talking about the discussions that took place in the Commission. One topic of discussion was, of course, the interest of employers in the reimbursement of health promotional expenses. In the Commission, the Ministry of Finance was represented by Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department, who answered questions that the tax receipts of the State may be reduced, that prices may rise in sports bases and that health promoters using sports facilities may gain an advantage. It was pointed out that the initiator of the draft had not identified an impact analysis. There was also criticism that the public sector did not sufficiently contribute to the construction of sports bases. There were very many Members of the Commission who disagreed with this argument, and I think that is justified. The officials of the Ministry of Finance were also asked how much of the sum of the tax optimisation takes place in the form of so-called sports clubs. We know that very many large public and private companies have set up a sports club. To be quite frank, there is no such estimate or estimate. Obviously, it is not possible to state exactly how much tax optimisation is. There was another very specific question that I think it would be right to clarify here: is it an employer's obligation to give this EUR 500 to an employee? There is, of course, no such obligation. This bill does not create an obligation, but provides an opportunity. Speaking of personal opinion, I think that the costs of organising sporting events should certainly be reviewed. This is my personal assessment of this bill. Finally, I will talk about the Commission's decisions. On 16 April, the Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda. a on 2 May (consensus decision), proposing that the first reading of the draft be closed (no consensus, 9 members of the Commission were in favour and 2 were neutral) and setting the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft by 16 May. a (consensus decision). This same draft law came to the Commission's second discussion on 30 April. At this meeting, the Commission decided, on a proposal from the initiator, to withdraw the draft from the agenda of the plenary session on 2 May (consensual decision), to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 8 May (also consensual decision) and to set a deadline of 10 days for the submission of amendments, i.e. 22 May. 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U145	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U146	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The purpose of the draft measure is to exempt from the special preferential tax the employer's expenses in respect of the expenses incurred by the employee or servant in carrying out sports activities, provided that they do not exceed EUR 500 per calendar year. As the author of the draft act, I naturally support it and vote in favour with two hands. But the previous waitress said that it would certainly not be possible to become an Olympic winner with 500 euros a year. Here's my question to you: do you believe that it is possible to win the Olympic Games with EUR 500 if there is will and diligence?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U147	If you live in Ethiopia or Kenya, it is certainly possible to become an Olympic winner with 500 euros. But this bill is not designed to produce Olympic winners, but to reduce, figuratively speaking, the cost of the sickness fund. These are different objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U148	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U149	Thank you. Good waitress! Was the Commission also based on some experience with neighbouring countries, some kind of benchmarking? A few years ago, there was a report in the Riigikogu that according to statistics of health sport in Finland, several times more than we do. I would like to know what this situation is like now, whether it has changed. One way is, of course, to improve the situation with various tax incentives, but on the other hand, it is very important to simply raise people's awareness. There's not always a lot of money to do. Do you have any comparative data or how the Commission put it in a broader context? How do we care for our health in comparison with others?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U150	Thank you. We didn't discuss the statistics. If you look at the weight increase of our dear northern neighbours, it seems that they are definitely in front of Estonians, even though they have movement at club level and perhaps more at the level of each person. It is certainly the most effective means of communication. Of course, the attitudes of society are important, and there is a great deal of information here. I've been saying for years that the hardest distance for a health athlete is from the couch to the front door. Obviously, the purpose of this bill is for entrepreneurs to first buy access to a swimming pool or whatever sports base, so that this first, most difficult distance can pass.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U151	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U152	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, As Chairman of the Sports and Movement Support Group of the Riigikogu, I welcome this draft. I like the contents of this bill. But my question to you is this: did you manage to find out from the people of the Ministry of Finance or the tax administration at the meeting of the Commission how much special preferential tax is actually collected from sports activities in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U153	Thank you. Yeah, that's the question. This has also been asked in previous years by representatives of the Ministry of Finance. In fact, no such specific amount is known. It's hard enough to say. We know that companies targeting active workers have made separate sports clubs; they do not direct their employees to sports. There are no statistics of this kind, and I think it is almost impossible to point that out. Let's say there's more slipping than the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board would like to see.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U154	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U155	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You will probably agree that there is a terrible lack of private money in Estonian sports. The reason for this is probably that it costs the entrepreneur a lot of money. Here would be one way to reduce the tax burden on the company. I ask you, Mr. Arrow, do you support this bill yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U156	I support the completion of the first reading of the draft. But on your remark that private money is scarce in sport, I would like to say that this is a bit of a speculative opinion. If the racer has bought a racing car for his money, is it sports money or not? Is 10,000 euros paid for a bicycle sports money, or is it a toy? I think when you say how much private money in sports is going to be, it's going to be a bit slippery. If you ask me personally, I will say that from the three proposals of this bill, I support one with two hands, but I do not even support two with half hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-08_U157	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Erki Arrow! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 184. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 6 p.m. on 22 May. The agenda is exhausted. Thank you very much, everyone, and have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 12.26 p.m.
