ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 12th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U2	Madam President of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic of Estonia initiates the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Turkmenistan on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U3	Thank you. I have adopted a bill on behalf of the management board and if it complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the management board will decide on this procedure within three working days. Now some messages. I have forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. The draft of the decision of the Riigikogu "Announcement of a Member of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund," presented on 12 December, the commission of the Economic Commission; secondly, the Estonian Reform Party Group. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu dated 12 December, amending the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; thirdly, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and related other laws, initiated on 13 December, the Committee on Culture; fourthly, in the Estonian Central Party faction. a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated on 13 December, Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on improving gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies submitted on 13 December, the Commission for European Union Affairs and appointed a draft directive and an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic on the Constitutional Commission, the Social Affairs Committee and the Committee on Legal Affairs. The deadline for the opinion is 17 January 2013 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 76 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 25. Before we go to the adoption of the agenda, I will give you a few details on the agenda. First, the members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Heimar Lenk, Vladimir Velman and Valeri Korb withdrew their request on 8 November for an inquiry into the speed-measuring scandal that broke out in the Eastern Prefecture. This was an inquiry No 208, item 4. Secondly, members of the Riigikogu Olga Sõtnik, Jüri Ratas, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Aivar Riisalu, Mailis Reps, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassiliev and Aadu Must withdrew their inquiries on the state of environmental education submitted on 15 November. This was an inquiry No 240, item 15. With these two additions, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft agenda, one against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U4	Let's start answering questions. The first question to be heard is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Urve Palo, Jaan Õunapuu, Rannar Vassilyev, Heljo Pikhofi, Karel Rüütli, Marianne Mikko, Mart Meri, Kalvi Tik, Andres Anvelt, Helmen Küti, Kalev Kotkase, Neeme Suur, Deniss Borodichi and Kajar Lemberi on 7 November 2012 (No 206). Evgeni Ossinovski, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce the question of the Socialists and the free spirit to the Auditor General of Borodichi, regarding the feasibility of using the resources of MISA. Once again, the issue that has already been discussed in this Chamber has been the subject of support for the production by AS Inforing of the "Known and Unknown Estonia" series with EUR 77000, with eight out of 18 films being half-hour advertising films about different levels of politicians in the Reform Party. In the longer term, I am not going to introduce this issue here, because you are all familiar with it. Exactly a week ago, the Minister for Culture, Rein Lang, answered the questions here, who claimed that the questions should be addressed to the Head of the Inforing, Mr Smirnov. However, since Mr Smirnov has not been the one who has distributed this money, we would still like to know who should be responsible for the fact that, in our eyes, public money has been used at least in an inefficient way on this particular issue. According to the Act of the National Audit Office, the National Audit Office must give the Riigikogu and the public confidence that public money is used legally and effectively. We hope that the National Audit Office will assess who should be responsible for this particular issue by answering our four questions and during the ensuing discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U6	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski. I now ask the esteemed Auditor General Mihkel Oviir of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! On 7 November, 15 members of the Riigikogu approached me with an inquiry regarding the support of our People of the Integration and Migration Foundation, or MISA, for the "Knowed and Unknown Estonia" series of AS Inforing. The heirs asked four questions as to the appropriateness of using the money. The first question: 'How do you assess the purpose of using taxpayers' money for the production of films introducing the leaders' policies of the Reform Party? How effectively do these films support the integration objectives set out in the integration plan? " First, I would like to remind you that the project will end in January next year, and only then will it be possible to make a final assessment. Today, we can only talk about what is now known. When assessing whether the money is used in a targeted way, a distinction needs to be made between the two parties. First, whether the money has been used in accordance with the rules and contracts prescribed, second, whether the objectives of the project have been achieved. First of all, the regularity of the use of money. The National Audit Office has examined the financing contract and interim report of the project and found some violations of the conditions for using the funds, which I hope will be eliminated by MISA. For example, companies associated with project partners have been used as subcontractors in the project and this cost does not meet the project specifications. According to the terms of the contest, the broadcasts should have been broadcast on prime time, i.e. 18 to 23. In fact, these films can be broadcast on TV3+ Sunday morning at 8:00 and sometimes at 7:30. It is certainly not a prime time and it is not in accordance with the rules. According to the survey that measured Emor's television auditorium, there were 2,000 on average TV3+ per minute on Sundays this year, but during prime time, there were an average of 10,000 viewers per minute on the channels. So it can be said that compared to prime time, there are on average five times fewer viewers on Sunday morning. This brings us to the problem of the effectiveness of using money. Overall, the project supports the general objectives of a specific call, which is to address and promote active citizenship and the integration process in the media. The recipient of the money is allowed to complete 18 films. At the same time, I strongly doubt how much this EUR 77289 and 15 cents will actually contribute to integration. First of all, the display of films on the channel, which according to recent data, only 2.4% of the population watch at 8:00 a.m. on Sunday morning, is likely to be effective. If the members of the Riigikogu had not raised this issue, these films might not have made any sense at all. Secondly, in my opinion, many of the outputs described as the expected results of the project are not directly related to integration, for example, Jõhvi Concert Hall and Inforing's website's increase in visitors' accessibility, or it is not possible to establish a causal link between the project and the result. One example is the increase in sales of Estonian products introduced in the series and the increase in the number of applicants for Estonian citizenship. However, these films and all the noise that has been generated have further deepened the politicisation of the integration topic and, by the way, the politicisation of the field is one of the biggest obstacles in the process of supporting integration, according to the 2011 implementation plan of the Estonian integration plan. The second question: Is it permissible to give preference to one political party or its members in the distribution of public funds? ' The distribution of state money is not allowed to favour a single party or its members. The third question: 'The short films mentioned are essentially advertising the politicians of the Reform Party. Do you consider the production and public display of these films to be a financial advantage to be transferred by a legal person to a party member, including a service, which is not available to another person within the meaning of subsection 123 (2) (3) of the Political Party Act? ' This section of the Political Party Act deals with prohibited donations. An assessment of whether one or the other specific donation is contrary to the law shall be made by a supervisory body, which shall be the committee responsible for monitoring the funding of political parties. The National Audit Office asked for the position of the committee on the supervision of the funding of political parties on a specific case. The Commission replied that since MISA could be requested by all interested parties, this service cannot be considered as a benefit not available to other parties within the meaning of the party law. In the Commission's view, this problem should rather be addressed from the point of view of the effective use of money. I would also point out that, according to the explanatory memorandum to the party law, each donation should be assessed as to whether the party has received a measurable benefit. However, it is still not clear what this measurable benefit could be. The whole story has obviously not benefited the rating of the Reform Party. I do not believe that in the forthcoming elections, thanks to these films, it will be decided to vote in favour of the Reform Party. If politicians who participated in the films had received a reward that was originally even planned in the project, then perhaps we could talk about a measurable benefit. According to the explanations provided by AS Inforing, the planned fee for participating in the film was waived and this change was also formalised correctly in the project budget. Question 4: "Does the National Audit Office consider normal a situation where both the Chairman and the Chairman of the Board of the Foundation established by the state belong to the same party? Would such a governance structure rather encourage or discourage impartial and transparent administration in accordance with the democratic rule of law? " Party membership is perfectly acceptable in a democratic country. When assessing the activities of the directors of foundations established by the state, the most important issue should not be their party membership, but how they carry out their duties. It is not forbidden to belong to a party, but to favour someone in the exercise of their official functions. Regrettably, with such a governance structure, MISA has made itself easily attackable. I agree with Jürgen Ligi, who said this thing looks like shit. In a democratic society, the distribution of money must not only be fair but also seem fair. This case doesn't seem fair. I am concerned primarily with three facts. First of all, I agree that if eight out of 18 films deal with reform parties and the rest of the parties, it does not look good. Secondly, there were five members in the committee for assessing the substance of the projects, two of them members of the Reform Party. If these two members had not given very high assessments of AS Inforing's application, this project would not have received support. Other projects would have been supported on the basis of estimates made by the other members of the Commission. Thirdly, the same members of the Reform Party Panel wrote on the evaluation sheet of another project proposal: 'Lauri Vahtre is not a particularly appropriate form in this case, as he is directly involved in politics and the subject is politicised. " The plan, recorded in the same request for information, to introduce politicians in films, among other things, even though they were not mentioned by name, did not raise any questions. I believe MISA has a lot to learn here. It could begin with the fact that the requirement in the competitive terms to avoid a potential conflict of interest should also be clearly stated in the evaluation criteria. I believe that the MISA case also refers to a wider problem, which has been the case for many years and which concerns all the councils of the state and local governments, companies, foundations, etc. and their so-called manning with politicians. In other words, does the fact that politicians sit in these councils make the decisions made there more honest and impartial in the public eye, or does it have the opposite effect? Does the participation of a politician in the Council make the Council's decisions more competent? And I stress that it is not just a question of whether these politicians are actually tilting one or the other decision in the interests of their party or so-called economic friends. The question is, even if there is no tilting in reality, it may still look like this. Once again, it doesn't just have to be honest, it also has to look honest. And the depoliticisation of all kinds of Soviets should also be in the interests of politicians themselves, because in this case, politicians no longer fall into the shadow of bias in decisions taken by the Soviets, which may be unfair to them. However, I come back to the content of a specific question. In conclusion, I am convinced that neither the Reform Party, MISA nor Estonia's integration policy will win this case. I will also add a very personal opinion. All those who participated in the movies surely deserve much better films and greater recognition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U8	Thank you very much, Mr. Auditor General. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U9	Dear Mr. Oviir! Your reply revealed that the reform party members of the evaluation committee had a significant influence on the decision as to whether or not this project would receive funding. In this light and in the light of this whole story, there is a question of responsibility. WHAT management has said that they are not responsible for the evaluation committee. The Council has said that they are not responsible either, and the Minister of Culture, who is the founder's right holder, said to call Smirnov if you have any questions. Would you explain the structure of liability in this particular case? Who do you think should be responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U10	I'll answer that question. According to the Foundations Act, supervision is the responsibility of the Foundation's Board. So the main responsibility is the foundation board. The articles of association of MISA provide for the preparation and presentation of the annual accounts and the annual report to the auditor for inspection and approval by the supervisory board. It is also foreseen that the founder of the rights, i.e. the Minister of Culture, has the right to require specific checks to be carried out and to use the structural unit of the institution it manages to do so, such as the Ministry's Internal Audit Department. The Treasury Act obliges the founder to ensure that the foundation's statutes contain the requirements laid down in the Treasury Act, including requirements concerning the functioning of the governing bodies, the internal control system and internal auditors. The law states exactly who has to do what and who is responsible for something. I don't think there's a problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U11	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U12	Good Auditor General! Although the project is still officially unfinished and the analyses will be carried out later, do you agree that there is really hope that these films will be seen in the Riigikogu because of the fact that this topic was raised? Thanks to this, perhaps it will really contribute to achieving WHAT objectives and to the integration process?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U13	I imagine that, thanks to the inquiries you have made to the Minister for Culture, to the Prime Minister and to me, you will rise at 6:30 next Sunday and watch TV3+ for some of these films.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U14	Very good answer! Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U15	Good Auditor General! As I understand from your answers, it is certainly not an effective use of public money. As we all know, the use of taxpayers' money must be essentially fair and also fair. In your opinion, this does not seem fair in this case either. My question is, how do you feel right now, was it really fair or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U16	I will repeat what was written in response to the evaluation sheet of one project application. And it was that Lauri Vahtre, in this case, is not a very appropriate form because he is involved in politics. That would be my whole answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U17	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U18	Dear Auditor General, first of all, thank you very much for your answers. I have been a relatively little member of the Riigikogu for less than two years. I have the impression that not only on this issue, but also on a number of other issues, no one wants to take responsibility. EVERYONE, as they speak, is willing to confirm that everything is fine, but even for this good thing, no one wants to take responsibility. How do you feel, is that it? If something's good, they don't want to take responsibility, but worse, if something's wrong, it's not responsible. Looks like things are bad here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U19	Who of us would want to take responsibility in certain situations if it was not possible to assume that responsibility? In my opinion, the main problem is the politicisation of certain structures, institutions. That's the whole answer. By the way, I've been talking about this for ten years, but nothing's gonna change. You see, my offspring will come and speak for another ten years. It is very difficult to achieve a change of substance in this area. It is very difficult for members of the Riigikogu to exercise effective supervision of themselves, but it should be one of their functions and one of their duties. How all kinds of councils are manned, how all kinds of boards are manned, this is an area that the Riigikogu should pay more attention to. It's been talked about for ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U20	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U21	Dear waitress, Do you think the Minister of Culture has a political responsibility in this whole story, which is very detailed here? If so, what could this responsibility be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U22	This should take into account the large social resonance that has arisen around this issue. See how much has been said about how much has been written about how much Riigikogu has spent its working time on it! The minimum that the Minister of Culture should have done in such a situation, in my opinion, is that he would have sent a special check, who would have analysed the situation to the details. I have always wondered why the honourable Riigikogu, apart from the Minister of Culture, had to invite the Auditor General and ask him to speak about it. If you look at the answers of the Minister of Culture and the answers of the National Audit Office, they differ from one aspect to another. And that's the main question for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U23	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U24	Dear Auditor General, thank you very much for a very thorough and good overview of all this MISA issue! I have always admired your will and ability to see the Estonian state as a whole and also to look to the future, not just to live in today's day. According to you, the question was whether these films would contribute to Estonia's integration policy, and this remained a question mark in the air. We've read what you think, and we think it's about politicising integration, but I'm asking you more broadly. Sometimes the National Audit Office reports have tried to ridicule what you did in certain areas. Please tell me if there are any other areas of concern like this. How many are there in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U25	I can say that there are actually a lot of these areas. They are on the way to our development all the time, and we should constantly try to overcome them. If there are obstacles to the development of society, they must be removed, but new obstacles will emerge in the course of development. There's no static situation. That is why the state apparatus has been set up, which is why Parliament has been set up to analyse the situation, take decisions and overcome the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U26	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Auditor General. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Evgeni Ossinovski, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We have already said most things on this subject. The most important issue for us is certainly the same issue of responsibility. Thank you very much to the Auditor General for today's answers. I particularly noted what Mr Oviir said at the end: that he felt that the Minister of Culture should have sent a special check to check the case. Let's see what the Minister of Culture said here a week ago! I quote: 'I, by the way, am of the opinion that the media usually interview people who have done something, not those who only talk. I guess Mr. Smirnov found it necessary to interview these eight people. That's all I can tell you today. ' This is basically exactly what Prime Minister Ansip said in Question Time a few weeks before that: that he commends his colleagues for having found the time to participate in these films. In our view, this clearly shows that there is no desire to assume 'technical responsibility' on this issue as regards the procedures for and the conduct of specific calls for proposals. And even less, someone wants to condemn the substance of what happened, the fact that public money was advertised to the Reform Party. By the way, as a small reply to the statement of the Auditor General that the Reform Party did not win anything of this, I would like to point out that not all the costs of the election campaign will be successful, but that does not mean that this is not the cost of the election campaign. However, I do have quite serious concerns at the end of the day that it is being condemned at very different levels, that the spending has not been purposeful, but that there is still no conclusion, if in essence no one is willing to take responsibility. How, then, can we ensure that both the public and the Riigikogu have confidence that taxpayers' money, their own, will still be used in a targeted and effective way? Of course, on 27 January there will be an evaluation committee that will evaluate this particular project, but of course it will do so formally. As I said to Mr Lang a week ago: in law, everything is more or less out of place today, we have heard from the Auditor General that there are some shortcomings in the legal sense, but perhaps it is found that there is nothing wrong and that money cannot be recovered from the Inforing. At the same time, it is essentially an inefficient spending of money, as the Auditor General said today. I don't know how this story ends, but I'm afraid it ends just the way it's legally found to be correct and nobody's gonna be held accountable. Ultimately, however, it will certainly seriously damage our country's reputation in a much wider way and will also affect other foundations, public legal entities, etc. Unfortunately, it seems that in Estonia a great deal depends on the individual's own desire whether or not to be responsible. The law, as has been said, contains the relevant requirements, but these people are not in a hurry to take responsibility and the Riigikogu does not have the opportunity to exert particular pressure here either. But we hope that the National Audit Office will keep an eye on this matter and will continue to draw attention to this in the case of obvious violations. I'm sure that's what we inquisitors do, for our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U28	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U29	Next are the members of the Riigikogu Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Ester Tuiksoo, Lauri Laasi, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mailis Repsi, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassiliev and Aadu in Black. a Enquiry submitted on 14 November concerning Russia's accession to the World Trade Organization (No 211). I would like to ask my colleague, Enn Frontland.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U30	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. According to the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Russia's decision to join the World Trade Organisation (WTO) was approved at the eighth ministerial conference almost exactly a year ago, on 16 December 2011 in Geneva. Russia ratified the Treaty on 22 August opening up its market to a very large part of the world. Russia's accession to the WTO takes place in transition periods. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party considers that we have spoken too little about the details of the accession and therefore there is no overview of the impact on entrepreneurship between Estonia and Russia. Consequently, we have the following questions for the Minister. Question one. In the name of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and of its subsequent accession to the WTO, negotiations have been held with Russia for 19 years. What were the compelling factors that led to the successful conclusion of the negotiations? Secondly, 'Since Russia's accession to the WTO takes place in transition periods, please explain the impact of agreements on the Estonian economy in the coming years in various areas, such as agriculture and information technology. " Third: 'Which WTO countries have special trade conditions in Russia? ' And fourthly, 'How far is Estonia's negotiations on the ratification of the common border agreement with Russia, bearing in mind that the establishment of borders is essential for the smooth exchange of trade? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U31	Thank you very much, Mr Enn Frontland. Now I ask the esteemed Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet, to speak on the platform!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U32	Good afternoon. Thanks for asking. I will start with the first question, which was as follows. In the name of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and of its subsequent accession to the WTO, negotiations have been held with Russia for 19 years. What were the compelling factors that led to the successful conclusion of the negotiations? I would say that the most important factor, apparently, was the political will of Russia's own leadership to end this process. When joining the WTO, each country must be committed and ready to adapt its trade regime to what the WTO treaties and rules require. It must also be prepared to liberalise its trade with other members of the organisation. If the candidate has the will to do all of this, it is also possible to conclude the negotiations successfully. Looking back in time, Russia's negotiations to join the WTO were probably slowing down mainly because Russia itself showed a very inconsistent desire to join over time. In the meantime, this desire was greater, then it disappeared again and, of course, it all affected the length of the accession process. Finally, however, the country's political leadership took a very clear direction towards Russia becoming a member of the WTO, and this led to the successful conclusion of the negotiations. The second question: 'As Russia's accession to the WTO takes place in transition periods, please explain the impact of agreements on the Estonian economy in the coming years in various areas, such as agriculture and information technology. 'The obligations imposed by the Accession Agreement are very broad from lowering customs tariffs to harmonising regulations and removing other non-tariff import restrictions and making the trading system more transparent. When analysing the impact of WTO accession, it must be taken into account that it will be profitable if countries also fulfil their commitments correctly. At present, Russia has rather sought to maintain a number of unilateral restrictions and even new ones that contradict WTO obligations. Russia was obliged to lift all quantitative and regulatory import restrictions, such as quotas, prohibitions, authorisations, authorisation and licensing requirements, as well as other requirements and restrictions that do not comply with WTO rules, immediately after accession. At the same time, for example, rail transport charges for cross-border and domestic transport will be equivalent in July next year. Customs rates will also partially fall to the agreed level on the day of accession to the WTO, but in many cases transitional periods have also been agreed. However, it is estimated that more than 70% of the total impact of the fall in customs duties will have been achieved by 2014. The impact of the reduction in customs rates varies in time between groups of goods. In some cases, this effect is faster. In theory, it should have been faster, for example, in the case of live animals and animal products, but at present, as we know, there is no such effect due to the ban on imports. For other groups of goods, transitional periods are longer, for example for various industrial products. Financially, about three quarters of the savings from the reduction of customs duties fall into five headings: live animals and animal products; prepared foodstuffs; beverages and alcohol; textiles and textile products; vehicles, means of transport and various industrial products. As far as agricultural products are concerned, their customs tariffs were not so high before Russia's accession to the WTO that they would have prevented the export of Estonian goods. Russia's further tariff cuts are on average 5 to 10 percentage points for agricultural products. The exception is meat products, where Russia offers lower tariffs only for a certain amount of quotas up to 2020 and then abolishes those quotas. It is also important to us that Russia, as an important producer of cereals, cannot apply export duties under the WTO Agreement. As far as industrial goods are concerned, the expected impact will largely come in the next year. The biggest potential impact is on the sale of second-hand vehicles. At first, however, there are trade barriers which are incompatible with WTO rules that Russia has imposed on its imports from the European Union. For other industrial products, the average customs rate is quite high and the effects of accession are relatively evenly spread over the period up to 2018. As far as services are concerned, in the telecommunications sector, the restriction on foreign capital will be lifted within four years of accession to the WTO. Foreign banks can immediately set up branches in Russia, while foreign insurance companies can be established nine years after Russia's accession. Russia will open its market fully to computer services and the construction sector from the time of accession, which will benefit from equal treatment with local companies. Russia is also obliged to fully implement the provisions of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, which also has a positive impact on service providers, without a transitional period from the date of accession to the WTO. Question 3: 'Which WTO countries have special trade conditions in Russia? ' Russia's WTO membership working group included over 60 WTO members. Anyone who was interested could join it. In addition to the working group on multilateral negotiations, Russia's accession conditions to Russia could be negotiated bilaterally between any interested WTO Member State on the obligations and timetable for access to tariffs and services markets. Russia has concluded 30 bilateral service agreements and 57 agreements on access to the market for products, which were agreed by consensus by all members of the working group. Under the WTO most favoured nation principle, tariffs and other regulatory instruments must be applied to imports and exports in a non-discriminatory manner. Therefore, all bilateral preferential agreements with Russia during the accession process will extend to the entire WTO membership, not only to the subscriber and the member interested in the subject. For example, the European Union concluded four bilateral agreements in the process of Russia's accession: timber export customs, investment in the Russian automotive industry, maintenance of service obligations and taxes on exports of raw materials. They will also extend to all WTO members. There are two exceptions. These are preferential treatment of developing countries, in which all members grant special preferences to LDCs, and trade between members under regional trade arrangements. Russia, for example, has some opportunities to develop special relations with Belarus and Kazakhstan, should these countries also become members of the WTO. As regards Estonia and the countries of the European Union at all, bilateral negotiations with Russia were held by the European Commission on behalf of all the countries of the European Union, on the basis that trade policy is the competence of the Commission within the European Union. In the case of the four agreements concluded, Estonia was particularly active when it was the issue of timber export customs. Our Forest Industries Association wanted to achieve an export customs duty of 0% for coniferous wood, and we have repeatedly emphasised this position. This was taken into account by the Commission and negotiations were initiated at this level. However, the final result was 13% for pine wood and 15% for spruce wood. Our second major interest in these talks was the harmonisation of rail tariffs. We did not have a specific objective of how low or high this tariff should be. The interest was that this tariff would be equal for both cargoes to Russian ports and freight crossing the border. If the tariffs for intra-Russian transport are lower, this will, as we know, place Russian ports and railway companies in a privileged position compared to ours, for example. In this respect, it was agreed that Russia would harmonise rail tariffs from 1 July 2013. And the last question: 'How far is Estonia's negotiations on the ratification of the common border agreement with Russia, bearing in mind that the establishment of borders is essential for the smooth exchange of trade? ' First of all, we are not currently negotiating a border agreement with Russia. It is recalled that the negotiations had already ended before 2005, when they had lasted for 11 years, and then a border line was agreed. What's going on now? Following a proposal from all the political groups of the Riigikogu to the government, we consult with the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs on how and if it would be possible to reach the entry into force of the border agreements at the moment. Above all, this consultation concerns the political introduction to these agreements. Tomorrow the second round of consultations will be held in Tallinn. The representatives of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs will come to Tallinn tomorrow to hold these talks. As far as trade is concerned, the existence or absence of agreements on land and sea borders is certainly not a determining factor. Rather, the capacity of existing border crossing points, as well as the shortest possible queues at the border, is important. This is also a question that has been dealt with for a long time. For example, this April renewed the agreement between Estonia and Russia on border crossing points, which also updated the possibilities for border crossings. The issue of the border rankings was last raised at the end of November in political consultations between the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The National Audit Offices on both sides have dealt with the same issue. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications also spoke about facilitating trade in Moscow in early December with the Russian Minister for Transport and the President's Transport Advisor. In the field of transport, it was also agreed that the work of the bilateral Transport Committee would be resumed. Thus, work on the smooth running of trade between Estonia and Russia is ongoing and takes place at several different levels and places of discussion. If you look at the statistics for the year ending, this year in July and August Russia was Estonia's largest export partner. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U33	Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, Mr Enn Frontland, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U34	Thank you, Minister, for your inquisitive answers. I will continue to ask you about the negotiations. In a few days, there will be a summit between the European Union and Russia in Brussels, and according to current data, the Russian Head of State, Mr Putin, will also attend this meeting. It is known that at European level Russia's accession to the WTO has been quite problematic for many countries. Is it known from which position the WTO issue will be discussed at this summit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U35	On the basis of the European Union's preparations for the summit, the position is such that the European Union wants Russia to meet all its commitments when it joins the WTO. There are also issues relating to the fact that the European Union currently considers that there are unjustified restrictions on various goods in the European Union. This applies directly to the export of Estonian live animals, for example, but also to used cars. Different Member States may have different emphasis on different groups of goods, but the basic principle is that the European Union nevertheless assumes that if one country joins the World Trade Organisation, it will also comply with the general principles. Today, in the European Union, we see that in some parts Russia is not yet doing so. The most directly relevant issue for us is the export of live animals. But yes, at this summit this issue will rise. This would be the most logical and easiest way to solve these problems. It is always possible to have a dispute within the WTO itself, but it is, of course, a more time-consuming process. As I have already said, Russia's accession to the WTO eventually became decisive in the existence of political will. It is the presence of will that is essential to resolve these issues effectively and quickly, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U36	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U37	Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Recently, we could read in the media that the Government of the Republic refused to study the seabed in connection with the construction of Nord Stream's new gas pipeline. Perhaps Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs gives some reason why this refusal was justified and what is the risk of investigating the seabed to the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U38	Before the government formed its position and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs made the relevant decision, the majority of Estonian ministries, as well as other state institutions concerned by the issue, gave their opinion within the coordination circle as well as a whole range of research institutions. If you sum up these views, the opinion of many state institutions, as well as research institutions, was that permission to conduct marine research in the Estonian economic zone should not be granted. This was justified in different ways, but the main thing is the legal approach: it must be based on what is stated in Estonian law. Our EEZ law quite exhaustively lists the reasons why it is possible to refuse to grant such a study permit at all. It is precisely the EEZ law that gives rise to the reasons why the government considers that we are not granting this authorisation at the moment. There is a point on the possibility of obtaining information on natural resources in this area, another point on research technology. Our environmental experts from the Ministry of the Environment, as well as marine scientists, pointed out that one method of investigation is still drilling, but the law says that permission may be refused if one method is drilling. That's the foundation. All kinds of other assessments can also be made in conversations, but there is little to do with them when drafting a legally motivated decree.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U39	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain within the limits of the question. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U40	My question was intended to clarify the previous question. Doesn't the law really allow us to provide information about our resources? If we had found oil, shouldn't we tell somebody? And what about refusing it anyway? You argued that the public authorities, each on its own and on various grounds, suggested that this be refused, but our Prime Minister announced his refusal to the public a long time ago: we will not allow the second pipeline to be built, and that is it. It was only after that that the grounds for refusal began to exist in one way or another and in a third way. Which one was it before, an egg or a chicken?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U41	I'm sorry! Once again, you can ask a new question about this subject, but we are now discussing Russia's accession to the World Trade Organization.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U42	What happens then? Answer or don't answer, Madam President?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U43	As you wish, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U44	I can tell you all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U45	I understand you can talk about anything, but we're still in the middle of a specific inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U46	However, I will say briefly that it is clear. I don't know which one was before, either an egg or a chicken, it's still being debated in more competent circles. As regards the authorisation of studies in the EEZ, the Government announced its position on 6 December. On the same day, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued an order refusing to grant an authorisation. Before that, the personal views and assessments of several politicians sounded in the Estonian public space.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U47	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No, I don't. So the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U48	Next are the members of the Riigikogu Eldar Efendiev, Yana Toomi, Valeri Korbi, Olga Sõtnik, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Toobali, Jaan Õunapuu, Rein Randver, Jaak Allik, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Lembit Kaljuvee. A request for information on the importance of the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan submitted on 15 November 2004 (No 231). I would like to ask my colleague Eldar Efendiev of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U49	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, On 9 September 2010, the Government of the Republic approved the National Action Plan for Ida-Virumaa for 2010-2014. The plan offers a wide range of activities to address Ida-Virumaa problems, such as employment, culture and language learning. It highlights the importance of fairer and faster justice, the human resources policy of public authorities and the planning and relocation of the state's structural units to Ida-Virumaa in shaping the development of the county. The Action Plan also addresses issues of media coverage and information dissemination and focuses on the development of civil society. This document made it an obligation for ministries to take account of the objectives and tasks of the Action Plan when drawing up budgets. It was also agreed that, at least once a year, the Minister for the Interior and Regional Affairs would provide information on the implementation of the Action Plan at the meeting of the Cabinet and make proposals for the renewal of the Programme. At the same time, the Minister for Regional Affairs must prepare, in cooperation with other ministries, regional-based measures and actions to implement the amounts of the European Union's 2014+ financial perspective in Ida-Virumaa. Already last year's state budget procedure revealed that the Action Plan for Ida-Virumaa for 2010-2014 approved by the Government of the Republic has not been reflected in the state budget. The same can be said about the draft state budget for the coming year: the Ida-Viru County Action Plan will not be found in the state budget for the coming year either in the general text or in the chapters of the ministries. When you were asked about the perspective of the national action plan in the Riigikogu hall, you replied that there was a regional development plan for Ida-Viru County in preparation. We submitted this question because we want information on the activities carried out at national level under this programme. It's two years till the end date. 11 members of the Riigikogu from different political groups have signed the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U50	Thank you very much, Mr Eldar Efendiev. Please, Mr. Siim Valmar Kiisler, the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will answer four questions that have been put in order. The first question: 'Why has the national 'Ida-Viru County Action Plan 2010/2014' not been taken into account in the preparation of the 2013 state budget? ' The aim of this action plan is to address the problems of Ida-Viru County in a coordinated manner by linking the planned activities within the framework of the various sectoral policies with the solution of specific regional-specific problems in order to act in a mutually supportive way. In the state budget, the expenditure of the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan has not been broken down in previous years, and it is not likely to be written down in the coming years, as these amounts are recorded within the budgets of different ministries. One example is the move of the Prisons Department of the Ministry of Justice to Ida-Virumaa or the construction of Jõhvi bypass under the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which took 10,5 million euros. The government of the Minister for Regional Affairs can mention various measures that improve the living environment and are worthwhile, such as the repetition of the Central Alley and the reconstruction and construction of kindergartens in Kohtla-Järve, as well as the reconstruction of the upper secondary school in Toila. Almost all ministries have such activities. However, the move of the Prisons Division of the Ministry of Justice is a good example in the sense that the Minister of Justice emphasised, even before discussing this issue in the Cabinet, that this means additional operational costs for the Ministry. And when there was a budget debate, the Ministry of Justice's request to move this department to Ida-Virumaa found additional money to allocate the unanimous support of the government office and this money was found. This is simply reflected in the budget as an increase in the operating costs of the Ministry of Justice, it is not specifically stated that some amount is precisely for the implementation of the Ida-Viru Action Plan, but that is basically the case. The second question: 'Have you prepared an annual report on the implementation of the Action Plan and how do you consider that the Action Plan has been completed? " I presented an overview of what was done in 2011 and the planned government office in 2012 on 9 August this year. I would like to highlight the following activities that the ministries have done. First, the Ministry of Education and Research. This year and last year, the Ministry's budget line for educational integration was EUR 2.8 million, and a significant part of it went to activities in Ida-Viru County, as almost half of the schools with Russian language of instruction are located in Ida-Virumaa. In addition, education institutions will be supported through training, investment grants and wage supplements, as well as methodological advice and the development of language and bathing programmes. In addition, at the two Kohtla-Järve Upper Secondary Schools, the Estonian Academy of Home Defence will carry out internal protection pre-vocational training, police lectures and training in 2012 and border guard lectures in 2013. The latter are run by the police officers of the Eastern Prefecture. This activity is also planned to be extended to other schools in the region. The main objective of the Ministry of Justice is to fill all the judges in Ida-Virumaa, also to rotate law enforcement officials to Ida-Virumaa, and to strengthen the organisational measures within the judiciary. In 2011, the first two scholarships were awarded to outstanding students in Ida-Virumaa so that they could study at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu. The Ministry of the Environment supports the creation of water management infrastructure, the elimination of residual pollution and the regularisation of non-compliant waste facilities through various measures. In addition, the planning of the amounts for the European Union's 2014+ financial perspective takes into account the specificities of Ida-Virumaa and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the national development plan for the use of oil shale will be updated. According to the development plan of the Ministry of Culture, Ida-Virumaa is mainly concerned with cultural and sporting activities, plus an integration and cultural diversity development measure. The Ministry supports museums and libraries, folk culture, theatre and music. In addition, language immersion, support for national culture societies in the field of civic education and lifelong learning are important. Together with the Estonian National Broadcasting, the aim is to ensure more truthful media coverage. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has directed the "Entrepreneurial School" programme directly to Ida-Virumaa and supports the development of its industry and transport infrastructure. Of course, energy is also being developed. The objective of the Enterprise Estonia is to support the development of civil society organisations also in Ida-Virumaa. The Ministry of Agriculture promotes the development of Ida-Virumaa under the rural development plan, whose funds went to Ida-Virumaa in 2011 at 5.4 million euros. As of the end of 2011, a total of EUR 14,4 million had been allocated to Ida-Viru County. The Ministry of Finance is looking for ways to solve the problems of crossing the Estonian-Russian border on a domestic basis and on a bilateral basis with the European Union and the Russian Federation, while trying to raise the technical level of customs control. In addition, a significant part of the amount of CO2 quota sales goes to the education and social sectors and to improve the energy efficiency of public buildings in Ida-Viru County. In 2011 training was carried out in order to increase the capacity of local authorities and improve cooperation with public authorities, while training was carried out in order to design the professional department "Ethic of Public Service' and "Estonian language as official language'. This year, training was carried out to create common core values and to strengthen ethics, and this work will continue in the coming year. The most important of the activities of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board aimed at Ida-Virumaa are the provision of Russian-language information on their websites, as well as the use of publications, mass posts and services. There is a targeted media communication with Ida-Viru TV channels on tax and customs issues. The most important activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs in fulfilling the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan are providing treatment and rehabilitation for people with addiction disorders, implementing active labour market measures, improving the conditions for substitution care and improving the health of the population in Ida-Virumaa. The main activities in the field of internal security of the Ministry of Interior are the training of officials and the regional differentiation of the salaries of border guards and police officers and the payment of scholarships to the most prominent students from Ida-Virumaa at the National Defence Academy. The scholarship is also intended for outstanding students from other counties who, after completing their studies, start working in a specialty in Ida-Virumaa. In 2012 and 2013, the police and rescue buildings of Jõhvi and Narva will be completed and three voluntary rescue commandos from Ida-Virumaa will be supported. The main activities in the area of government of the Minister for Regional Affairs are the use of the possibilities of the European Union's Structural Funds and national funds in the framework of various measures in Ida-Virumaa. Examples include the construction of various industrial sites and visitor sites, the development of oil shale competence centre, the development of public urban space in Narva, Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve, capacity building at Narva border crossing points, and other such projects. We also have a specific measure to support the capacity of civil society organisations in Ida-Virumaa, within the framework of the Civil Society Foundation. In addition, a cross-ministerial Commission is acting under the direction of the Minister for Regional Affairs, which plans to use the Structural Funds from the European Union's 2014+ financial perspective for regional-based actions in Ida-Virumaa. The Commission has been involved in all ministries governed by the European Union's Structural Funds, as well as representatives of local authorities and opinion leaders. The Commission has mapped out the potential needs of Ida-Viru County and planned activities in the future financial perspective. The results of the Commission's work can be further assessed once final rules and measures for the use of the funds for the financial perspective 2014+ have been agreed. The plan for implementing the Action Plan can be found in more detail on the website of the Ministry of the Interior. In addition to the implementation plan, there is a report on the activities carried out in 2011 and 2012 in total, it contains 70 points by ministry. Question 3: 'Do you and what proposals have you put forward to clarify and update the action plan? ' The specification and renewal of the action plan are planned to be carried out in early 2013 on an ongoing basis before giving an overview of the implementation of the next implementation plan to the Government of the Republic. In addition, I have proposed the use of an integrated territorial investment implementation scheme for the next financial period 2014-2020, which would give up country-wide consistent measures for different sectoral policies and instead channel subsidies into one region on the basis of a flexible, targeted, multi-sectoral integrated scheme. The fourth question was that the Ida-Viru County Government has drawn up the Ida-Viru County Development Plan 2014 to 2020 and whether it was drawn up on the basis of the National Ida-Viru County Action Plan. The Ida-Viru County Development Plan 2014 has been prepared by the county government and received input from existing strategic documents at both national and regional level. Of course, these include the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan 2010/2014. While the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan has been aimed at setting priorities for ministries, the Ida-Virumaa Development Plan prepared by the county government includes not only the activities of the state but also the contribution of local authorities and third parties, including both private and non-profit sectors, to the promotion of local life. Finally, I would like to add that, when I introduced this overview to the Cabinet, the section was also included in the protocol decision of the Cabinet that, in 2013 and 2014, in addition to the activities mentioned in the operational programme, the focus should also be on increasing the country's representation in Ida-Virumaa by restructuring and moving public authorities to Ida-Virumaa. All ministries were obliged to analyse which structural units in Ida-Virumaa would contribute to the implementation of the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan. I look forward to what proposals come from the ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U52	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U53	Good minister! You said that the action plan would be clarified at the beginning of next year. My question is this: how much do you intend to consider that we have now become much smarter? Census data are available and unfortunately they are very drastic. Nearly the city of Pärnu has been lost in the Ida-Viru region for 20 years. How much do you take into account the serious fact that people are leaving this area when you specify the action plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U54	A very important subject! Of course, we are counting on it, but I also assure you that these figures are not surprising to me. I've been watching which movements are reflected in the population register. While this register differs somewhat from the census data, trends are very well monitored from the population register data. I have also told the public that this is a very strong trend in Estonia, that the number of people living in Ida-Viru, especially young people, is drastically decreasing. It didn't come as a surprise to us. But, of course, in reviewing priorities, we must take this seriously into account. At the same time, employers continue, interestingly speaking, to confirm that Ida-Viru is an attractive area for industrial operators, as there is still a workforce there. There is still plenty of free labour in Ida-Viru County. One objective of this action plan has been to invest in infrastructure in industrial areas in Ida-Virumaa, and we can see that the creation of industrial areas has progressed quite well. The interest of entrepreneurs in these industrial areas is serious, both in Narva and elsewhere. It is clear that more such jobs will be created, also with the help of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U55	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U56	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Life shows that the Ida-Virumaa action plans for the years 2010 to 2014 to 2020+, etc., are carried out by all rural government and local authorities. Members of the Riigikogu are sometimes invited to work there. But the money is divided into ministries, and it turns out that if you try to bring these programs together from below, it doesn't give the plus we're waiting for. Every ministry is acting on its own, there is no joint program. Perhaps it would be easier if every ministry did its own program, then we put all the points together, and the Ida-Virumaa action programme was ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U57	After all, this is how we draw up this joint implementation plan, asking for proposals from the ministries, asking what they are already doing and what other opportunities they will see. I agree that it is not easy to reallocate money. If the budgets of the ministries are there and now there is an ongoing need to change the emphasis, to raise more money to Ida-Virumaa, this means that something will be taken away from some counties. Such decisions are indeed very difficult to make, that is understandable. However, when this was discussed for the first time in the government, it was immediately decided that the planning of the European Union's funds for the next financial period must be seriously addressed and started early in Ida-Virumaa, so that we would be prepared for anything. As in many other parts of the world, there are also amounts that have not been locked up in many respects in previous years' budgets, and therefore the choice is clearly greater. At the moment, however, we are very much counting on the opportunities for the next financial period.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U58	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U59	Minister, thank you very much. This Ida-Virumaa Action Plan highlights the development of tourism as one of the most important priorities. In this context, the news from the beginning of last year was very positive that the Enterprise Estonia received support for a project to establish an adventure tourism centre in Kiviõli. As far as I know, the country has broken the word on this matter. The Ministry of Culture promised that it would allocate money to the project to cover the necessary self-financing, which has now been withdrawn. Would you enlighten the members of the Riigikogu on this issue? And if the refusal is true, how will the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan be implemented if the tourism money is taken away?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U60	I admit I don't really know what to say about the last position. I haven't been able to check all the figures. I know that the members of the Riigikogu discussed this topic among themselves in connection with the final reading of the draft state budget. The question is that we have foreseen a very large amount of support in the context of the measure to strengthen the region's competitiveness: EUR 3.2 million. In order to plan self-financing, at least 15% must be self-financing, the applicant must also have had a letter from the Ministry of Culture to show that they are supported in finding the money for this self-financing. Such letters normally have a clause in place to support, where possible or in the presence of resources. About this kind of clause was also on this letter, and now it really has been missing money. We certainly do not want to withdraw from the promise of support. I don't have an answer for you on how this is going to work out once and for all, but this self-financing is a relatively small part. All this support is a very large amount for us, certainly an important tourist destination in Ida-Virumaa. I very much hope that the problem will be solved and that we will be able to cover the applicant's own contribution. It would be a great shame if we had to give up all the support because the sum of our own contributions did not come together. I hope that the municipalities will also contribute something, but I repeat: unfortunately, at this point, the exact state of play cannot tell us how the applicant is dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U61	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U62	Dear Minister, I would still like to clarify, because indeed, neither we in this Chamber nor the people of Ida-Virumaa have any specific information to take from anywhere, unless there is any word on this programme in the general draft budget. Let's look at the ministries and there's nothing. We take reports on the implementation of the budget, not in general terms, not by ministries either. Here's the question: can you pick up the tail somewhere and make it clear whether or not this scheme works at national level? As coordinator, did you propose a budget based on this specific programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U63	In drawing up the budget, however, proposals are made by the ministries of the sector. As I said, we are collecting data from ministries, we are now asking over this for 2012 too, just as we were doing for 2011 in terms of how they have implemented these 70 points. What has every ministry done precisely to carry out the tasks that are set out in the operational programme? They will give us an answer on how they did this in 2012 and what they intend to do in 2013. We also ask whether they have proposals to change this plan. In order to get a summary picture of the matter, I am happy to send you all a link to this review. Here, these activities are clearly presented in a single table by ministries and can best be viewed from there. It's all scored out. For example, support for the construction of infrastructure in industrial areas is clearly indicated how industrial areas have progressed. This is one good example of how things have really moved forward in the creation of industrial areas. As far as tourism is concerned, I hope that the Kiviõli adventure park project will be successfully implemented. At the same time, we have much more to do in the field of tourism. I'm glad we got the money to reconstruct the Narva Bastion. We have also done a great deal to improve the living environment. If you look at the Kohtla-Järvet and Jõhvi city centre mentioned today, their appearance has changed very strongly because of our regional support programmes. Changes in the living environment of these cities are quite visible, and we also have several projects in Narva, which unfortunately are entangled in the repetition of parks and so on. There are changes, therefore, but the point is correct: we must all point out as a clear, coherent plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U64	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U65	Good minister! When you ask the Prime Minister how the government programme is going, he always answers that everything in its own time and don't rush ahead of time. One point of this action programme is that in order to alleviate long-term unemployment in Ida-Viru County, EAS offers individual large-scale industrial investment packages to help create new jobs in the region. The deadline for execution is set for the second quarter of 2012, which, according to my understanding, has passed. Since the Minister for Regional Affairs has been co-responsible for this programme, I ask what is the situation. What happened to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U66	I do not so well in these tables, nor do I quickly find out exactly which point you refer to. I already told you about the industrial areas, the development of the industrial areas of Ida-Virumaa Foundation has started quite actively. This is the foundation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The country has transferred land to this foundation, and we support it in this very measure of strengthening the competitiveness of the regions. It has been an honour for me to be present at two openings, where entrepreneurs have laid the cornerstone of the industrial area that has been launched with the support of the state, and now there are completely new investments in the city of Narva.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U67	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Mr Eldar Efendiev to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U68	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I'll try to sum it up in a few words. Indeed, we have the impression that there is a program called this, but nothing tangible can be seen. Such a question has arisen in all areas: is it or is it not? The activities take place in Harju County, but in Viljandi County, Põlva County and Ida-Virumaa? There's no such regional program anywhere else at national level, in Ida-Virumaa. What difference does it make? I want to say right away that I am in favour of the state formulating its interests in the region, and of course it would be very good if the plan were long-term, very concrete and with clear results. My colleague, Lembit, raised a very important question relating to the fact that our demographic situation is very different. Let me give you an example. Another ten years ago, the World Bank, which prepares annual estimates of resources for regions, assessed Ida-Viru County as a labour resource for the whole of Estonia. There was no such thing in a report five years ago. If we look at what has changed, we can see that five years ago there were a little more than 30% of people in retirement, but last year there were almost 50% of them. This is the trend and these changes will lead to problems in the future, where I do not know whether the state can solve them at all with its limited resources. All the proposals relating to the Ida-Virumaa programme that we made to change the state budget were unfortunately voted out and will not be dealt with in the future. Of course, the general activity, whether or not related to Ida-Virumaa, may be concentrated under different ministries, but the question of whether the Ida-Virumaa development plan really is a national policy of one region remains either way or over. Of course, we will examine the documents that the regional minister will kindly send us, and then we will see what happens in the future. But in any case, Ida-Virumaa's development plan will remain on the agenda for at least those people who have been elected in the region. We are analysing this and this is not the last time we are asking questions about it and we are interested in the implementation of this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U69	Thank you very much, Mr Efendiev. Evgeni Ossinovski, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Just a few small things, because the Minister for Regional Affairs did not quite understand Mr Lember's question. I simply state that the issue was not specifically at the point of the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan, but at the point of the government's action plan that, in order to alleviate long-term unemployment in Ida-Virumaa, a package of individual large-scale industrial investments should be envisaged through EAS. The deadline for implementation was set for the second quarter of 2012. We asked the Prime Minister about this at the beginning of this year, and he said it would come in its own time. We wanted to know how far MKM, along with the Minister for Regional Affairs, has now come with the implementation of the plan. There are a number of regulations that should be introduced, but some of them should be amended. As far as we know, this has not happened so far. This is, in any case, extremely unfortunate, as unemployment is certainly the most painful social and economic problem that has been plagued by Ida-Virumaa for a long time. Ida-Viru County unemployment has been nearly twice as high as the average in Estonia and the picture has certainly not improved in the last year. Although the number of registered unemployed in Ida-Virumaa has decreased by almost 2 000, the total number of unemployed in Estonia in Ida-Virumaa is 22%. There are over 4,000 unemployed in Narva, which means that more than 10% of all Estonian unemployed live in one city in Estonia. In this light, of course, all points in the action plan relating to the reduction of unemployment are of particular priority. Unfortunately, in this area, I believe that quite little has been done. The same can be said of the adventure tourism center of Kiviõli. According to my information, this is the situation of the regional minister who can correct me, that the grant authorised by the Ministry of Culture for self-financing has now been cancelled. The centre is almost ready, should be opened at the beginning of next year, and now we need to find EUR 150000 on our own in the next few months. If this fails, all this huge support will have to be repaid, which will call into question the opening and operation of this entire centre. The situation is very sad. On the one hand, something good has been wanted to do in Ida-Virumaa, but it has turned out as usual. There is a very high risk that this very important tourism investment will not be implemented or will not produce the desired results, as the centre will never be opened. I can't imagine where the people who've dragged this thing should find the money they need. In any case, it is an extremely word-breaking behaviour from the government, which does not coincide with rhetoric, that Ida-Viru County is an important priority and that solving the problems in this region is important to the government. As far as the biggest problem, i.e. unemployment, is concerned, I do not believe that enough has been done in this regard so far and, if we decide on the positions of the members of the government who have spoken here, we do not intend to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U71	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski. The Minister for Regional Affairs would also like to participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U72	I'll add a few words about the Stone Oil Adventure Park. This problem is serious, but it is certainly not the only example where the applicant is unable to secure self-financing. There really is a problem, I admit, there was such a promise from the Ministry of Culture, and it has not been fulfilled. There are, in itself, many issues of this kind with euro projects that are expected to start with additional funding, but will not be received later. But why did I come here again? I wanted to say that there is one area where it is clear that Ida-Viru has been acted on. I am thinking, in particular, of industrial areas and the creation of conditions for new businesses. I assure you that no such thing has been done anywhere else in Estonia, that the state participates in the foundation, that state lands are also granted separately for this purpose, support will be provided under the regional programme to build infrastructure and create other conditions, so that entrepreneurs can easily set up their own business there. And its first results are also seen in Ida-Virumaa. This is the kind of scheme we haven't used in other counties. I think it is a good example that Ida-Viru County has been given special attention and sought solutions in order to have more jobs there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U73	Thank you very much, Minister. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U74	The next members of the Riigikogu are Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Olga Sõtnik, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa and Lauri Laasi. a request for information submitted on 14 November on the organisation of entry of vehicles to the road border crossing point (No 219). Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U75	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher! On 14 November, 14 members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry, the content of which was as follows. Since 1 August 2011, the Estonian-Russian border crossing procedure is regulated by the electronic waiting queue system GoSwift, which is used at three Estonian road border points: Narva, Koidula and Luhamaa. In this context, a waiting area was established near each road border crossing point, where drivers can wait for border crossing time under the best conditions. As far as the Centre Party Group is concerned, drivers must pay both the border reservation fee, which is a minimum of one euro, and the waiting area fee, which depends on the waiting area and the vehicle category, before crossing the border. The fee for trucks, for example, is EUR 14. The reservation will take effect after the payment has been made. In practice, border crossings are obliged to use a waiting area and pay a fee for it. This regulation has been a source of resentment for drivers, as the waiting area is often empty and the car is immediately transferred to the border crossing point. The Ministry of the Interior replied to this question that even if there are no vehicles in the waiting area and the vehicle arriving in the waiting area is routed to the queue and to the border crossing point after checking the correctness of the queue, this is the use of a waiting area service. It is therefore justified for the lounge manager to charge the fee provided for in § 81 (6) of the State Border Act for the use of the lounge area. However, in the case described in § 83 (4) of the State Border Act, the charge is excluded. This paragraph provides that where vehicles are aimed at a waiting area for border crossings but do not use the waiting area for border crossings and are immediately sent to a border crossing point, no fee shall be charged for the use of the waiting area. The Chancellor of Justice has analysed the information and has taken the view that § 83 (4) of the State Border Act is violated when organising the entry of vehicles at road border crossing points in Luhamaa and Koidula border crossing points. The Chancellor of Justice presented his proposals and recommendations to the Ministry of the Interior on 19 April of this year, but until now the Ministry of the Interior has not eliminated the violation of the law. In this regard, we have three questions that we look forward to answering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U76	Thank you very much, Mr Velman. Please, Honourable Interior Minister Ken-Marti Vaher, to answer the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U77	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs, thank you very much for your inquiry. I will answer three questions. The Ministry of the Interior has held a debate with the Chancellor of Justice on this subject. We have presented our views to the Chancellor of Justice on quite a number of pages and I will present them briefly to you here too, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. But first of all, where we come from, or what really happened on the border of the Estonian state, not in the distant past, but quite recently. Before setting up this waiting-line management system for border crossings, the situation was such that in Narva the waiting time for both trucks and passenger cars was four hours in live order. The order was shorter in the southeast, but it reached at least ten hours. Those queues were so long that from the border they were looking at a large road over a distance of nearly 20 kilometres. This situation had been going on for years. In essence, it was not possible for the vehicle to leave Estonia via the eastern border road border crossing point without several days' waiting time and the vehicles were waiting to cross the border in the parks along the road in order. In doing so, they significantly impeded traffic, damaged the environment and caused people a great deal of discomfort. It also appeared that a waiting list of border crossings was occupied without the real intention of crossing the border. The long queues along the highway greatly reduced Estonia's attractiveness in the tourism and business sectors. Simply put, the picture looked very ugly and affected a lot of people who experienced it all. The waiting list system for border crossings, which was implemented last year and consists of a waiting list and a waiting area, has all solved these problems. The Ministry of the Interior considers that § 83 (4) of the State Border Act, which is a central problem in the letter of the Chancellor of Justice referred to in the inquiry, is not in breach of § 83 (4) of the Law on the entry of vehicles to the road border crossing point. In short, it would explain so much that the use of a waiting area service can be grouped in two ways. Firstly, it is a waiting-order management service for border crossings and, secondly, domestic services in the waiting area. Cross-border waiting-order management services include, in our opinion, waiting queues, parking in the waiting area of vehicles while waiting in the queue, placing the vehicle at the border crossing point and also receiving it at the road border crossing point. The second category is municipal services. This includes, for example, access to the Internet during waiting hours, lighting and surveillance, including video surveillance, collection of municipal waste and other services. From the point of view of the fee, the service for the use of the waiting area is a comprehensive service. It is not reasonable to keep separate accounts for each part of the service provided in the Act and to issue separate invoices to the person crossing the border. This would make the service provided even more expensive, for each part of the service, which is why we believe that it is justified to charge for the use of the waiting area, regardless of the extent to which waiting time ordering services and waiting area home services are used. A situation in which a large number of vehicles have taken up the waiting list of border crossings, but none of them have been found in the waiting area because their mandatory arrival time has not yet arrived, is not equivalent to a situation where there is no need to hold a waiting list. Therefore, the provision of the State Border Law, to which the questioning refers, does not apply in this case. Taking the opposite view would inevitably lead to a situation where part of the remuneration currently paid by drivers will have to be paid in the future by other border crossings, as the fee for the use of the waiting area for border crossings has been set on a cost-based basis. In our opinion, this would put at a disadvantage those who accidentally enter the waiting area for border crossings at a time when at least one vehicle wishes to cross the border, compared to those who accidentally enter the waiting area at a time when no vehicle wishes to cross the border. In addition, we would create a situation where vehicles form a waiting area again in front of the entrance, going one by one to the waiting area as soon as the previous vehicle has left it. However, honourable heirs, this would lead to problems prior to the implementation of the waiting list system, which I have already talked about. Vehicles would park on the road, pollute the environment, prevent traffic, etc. In order to avoid that, a waiting list system has been established. In addition, we would like to emphasise that, by defining the situation provided for in § 83 (4) of the State Border Act as also a situation where vehicles are in the order of border crossings, but none of them are currently in a waiting area, this would essentially mean abandoning the waiting list system for border crossings. In addition, there would be a situation where the charges for border crossings are not predictable in any way for the lounge manager or for the border crossing point, the fee may be absent or much higher to cover the actual costs incurred by the lounge manager. As a result of the above, we consider that the fee provided for in the State Border Act is the right of the lounge manager to take on even if the waiting area service is used in part. I am thinking of keeping a waiting list, including verification of the accuracy of the documents, the placing of the vehicle at the border inspection post and the adoption at the road border crossing point. We would like to emphasise once again that the main objective of supplementing the national border law in this Parliament was to solve the problems arising from waiting lists for border crossings. The current well-functioning system, which is known to serve as an example for other countries, was developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Tax and Customs Board, of course the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers and the then Narva Lounge Manager. Now there is reason to argue that the system created is working, the waiting lists for border crossings have disappeared. The solution implemented in Estonia is considered to be very good, which has also been referred to by the National Audit Office in its inspection report of 28 March 2012 entitled 'The border crossing of water at the land border between Estonia and Russia'. The Ministry of Internal Affairs considers that the successful operation of the system is accompanied by a comprehensive and sustainable solution based on an electronic waiting list with the possibility of pre-booking the queue and checking the identity of the person and vehicle in the waiting area of the border crossing before the vehicle is placed at the border crossing point. In view of the above, we are of the opinion that the fee provided for in § 83 of the State Border Act is also the right of the operator of the waiting area to accept a vehicle which uses part of the waiting area service. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U78	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Please ask a question, Mr Velman.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U79	Good Minister of the Interior! I don't argue with you in general. The new border crossing system currently in force in the country has completely succeeded and in many ways solved the situation that we had a few years ago. But I still want to keep asking. You said you gave the answer to the Chancellor of Justice. Did the Chancellor of Justice agree with your position? And do you find that § 83 (4) of the State Border Act contradicts what is currently happening at the state border?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U80	The answer to the Chancellor of Justice went on the last day of May this year. Right now, I don't know any more procedures. What can I say here in reply, if you ask, what are the cases where § 83 (4) applies? It has actually been implemented in Estonia, I can give you a few cases. First of all, the case from last year's turn, when in essence the barrier was lifted up and the vehicles crossed the waiting area and crossed the Estonian-Russian border without paying the fee. And that's because there was no queue. It is likely that the same situation will arise this year's turn, which means that this provision will be implemented. Another example is almost half a year ago, when a tourist bus was not paid at any time because there was no waiting list. We can talk here about a situation where there is no waiting list, in which case this paragraph could be applied. However, when it comes to queues and most of the time there is a queue, it requires management, direction and coordination, i.e. spending. Of course, then there will be a fee. However, if there is no queue, as was the case for these two examples, the fee has not been charged and the persons have been able to cross the border without paying the fee. In general, the comment is still so much that the fee is not obliged to pay the busses and holders of diplomatic passports when showing the diplomatic passport. These grounds come from the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U81	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U82	First of all, I want to point out that the situation you described has somehow been committed to the later. But the situation ten years ago and three years ago, they were still different. And the terrible situation you were talking about came about only because the state distanced itself from solving this problem. But here's my question. Right now, more or less the system works, and of course there are many pros, but either way or some questions arise. How do you assess whether in the future you will also take steps to make this model work with maximum efficiency and to remove the problems that still exist today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U83	Since August 2011, when this system is being implemented, analyses and feedback have been continuously obtained in order to improve the electronic waiting list system. We are, I think, relatively unique with our system in Europe. We do not really have much to learn from anyone, on the contrary, we are learning from Estonia. As I think I have said from this remote, my Finnish colleagues have been studying us or at least getting to know our experience. And there are those who appreciate the Estonian system very positively as an example. But, of course, I can also say very simply: we will learn at any moment to make everything smoother, even better. As this is an electronic waiting list system and technology is evolving, it will certainly also develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U84	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U85	We will go to the next question, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mailis Repsi, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta and Priit Toobali on 14 November (No 220). Who's gonna report it? Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U86	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We have heard a great deal about the scandal of unchecked instruments of thought in the Eastern Prefecture, which has led to the resignation of Raivo Küüt, Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, and the Prefect of the Eastern Prefecture Aldis Alus. However, there are still many concerns in this region that no one wants to pay attention to. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party submitted a draft decision a few months ago, where the Group proposed to the Government of the Republic to initiate a legislative amendment to reduce the language requirements of relief police officers from level C1 to level B1. This is to ensure law enforcement in the area of Eastern Prefecture. The Narva police station has a lot of auxiliary police positions not filled, and the biggest shortage is the patrol police. Police officers are among the most important elements in preventing violations of the law in terms of internal security, but unfortunately the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of the Interior did not see any concern on this issue. Rather, the idea remained that the ministry was going to reduce the positions of an assistant police officer. The problems related to the Eastern Prefecture have been discussed several times with Raivo Küüt in the Central Party faction, but the concerns that we Riigikogu ambassadors have brought to the attention of the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board have not yet been resolved. In the light of recent events, former Ministers of the Interior have also spoken, who believe that this is a crisis of the system. I would call it a systemic system crisis. Former senior officials considered that responsibility should be borne not only by police leaders but also by the Minister of the Interior. That is why we have asked four questions, which have been signed by 12 members of the Riigikogu and to which we are waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U87	Thank you very much. I ask Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Chair, to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questioning. To the first question concerning the composition of the Eastern Prefecture and its vacant posts and the resolution of the Prefecture's labour force at all, I will answer as follows. The number of police officers in the Eastern Prefecture is the same as in January 2012. Currently, there are 770 police officers. Of these, 312 are covered by the budget for a law enforcement officer, of which 282 have been filled (part of the population are on parental leave). There are also 71 staff members in these structural units, which mainly belong to the supporting side. The need for additional officials is primarily in the Narva and Jõhvi patrol services. To satisfy this, the most important prerequisites are, of course, human motivation and good pay. I am pleased that the 2013 state budget was adopted on 12 December, as this budget provides for a wage increase for both police and rescue officers over a long period of time. However, wage increases are subject to wage reform, which will be carried out next year. This has a clear impact on the incomes of so-called "frontier police officers" working in the counties. For example, we will raise all regional police, or national languages, to at least the current average salary of regional constables (including Ida-Virumaa) in Estonia, which is 855 euros. This represents at least a 7% salary supplement. It is precisely the word 'at least' that I emphasise, because there are a number of people whose wages are rising by more than 7%. This means a considerable increase in motivation and significantly better opportunities to find new people for jobs, which are also released due to the natural turnover of the workforce. The second question concerns the relief police. First of all, I would like to refute the statement on the reduction in the number of auxiliary police officers. I can't imagine where such misinterpretation could have occurred! First of all, the relief police are volunteers, and since I took up this position, our clear objective has been to increase the number of both volunteer rescuers and relief police officers. The more help police, the better! There are now nearly 70 active relief police officers in the Prefecture of the East, and we hope that their numbers will increase. The aim of the Ministry of the Interior is to achieve by 2015 a situation where there would be one assistant police officer for every thousand people in the country. There are currently nearly 600 auxiliary police officers active, making one assistant police officer for every 2,200 people. So there is considerable room for improvement. We keep this records by local government. By the end of next year, we want to move the number of relief police officers to at least 100 and hopefully beyond that. By 2015, this increase would be at least twice as much as it is now. There's money for that. The money has already been available this year and there will be a marked increase next year, in particular for the acquisition of personal equipment. As you know, it was only recently that the law of an assistant police officer was passed, which divides the relief policemen into two. For the first time, Estonia has established the status of both an independent assistant police officer and an assistant police officer working with a professional law enforcement officer. The third question concerns your reference to the claim that this is a system crisis. I'd say it like that. This is about the merger of the Police and Border Guard Board, which was decided on, if you remember, by a very large majority in June 2009. If I remember correctly, 74 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of unification. It was certainly not a convenient choice, but it was a necessary step. We are not so wealthy in our small society that we can maintain a large number of different institutions and bureaucracy. It is reasonable for authorities providing similar services to put together and use taxpayers' money in a more efficient way. It is clear that the creation of the Common Authority has already led to its own results. At the same time, the challenges associated with the Police and Border Guard Board as the largest institution in Estonia as a whole cannot be overlooked. On 1 January, it will only be three years since the merging of agencies and it is clear that this work has not been completed. One step by fusion is also the wage reform mentioned in the previous response, but there will be more and more of these steps in the coming years. I would also like to point out that one of the objectives of establishing the Common Authority was to channel resources into the main activity. Clearly, we must adapt to a changing world. Certainly one of the main features of today's organization is constant development, constant learning, how to operate better in one field of work or another than in the past, how to use taxpayers' money more efficiently. Internal security is certainly no exception. It is clear that the management system of the Police and Border Guard Board should be organised, which also applies to supervision. That's the analysis we're doing. As you know, there has been talk in this Chamber and in the committees about the organisation of the management systems of the Police and Border Guard Board, which we started in the summer of 2011. This is based on an analysis of management commissioned by Ernst & Young, an international consultancy firm, which has identified a number of bottlenecks and proposed ways of resolving them. Simply put, this requires clarification of the different management functions of the organisation, as well as responsibilities and competences. These changes are currently being implemented. The last question concerns responsibility. I can answer this as follows. The main responsibility here is to constantly develop the Police and Border Guard Board, to make it the largest organisation in the Estonian public sector more coherent, to link its working cultures and to provide for money and legal opportunities. Our next deadline for making these changes is March 1, which is also due to the Ernst & Young analysis referred to above. By 1 November of this year, the first important phase was completed, for example by ending duplication at different levels of governance. We eliminated the coordination offices of the Police and Border Guard Board, specifying in particular strategic and tactical leadership competences. The tactical level is the Police and Border Guard Board, the strategic level is the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But now we're going to go on to get even clearer about the competence of the leaders in the field, the competence of the prefects and the scope of management. There are certainly more questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U89	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U90	Minister of the Interior! When you answered the questions, you admitted that the existing governance system needs to be changed. The Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has dealt with the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and half the procedure has been amended so that the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board is no longer required to have prior police work experience. You mentioned, in answer to one question, that there are no ordinary police officers in Narva and Jõhvi, without specifying how many of them are missing. Nor did you make a promise before us here in the Riigikogu when they would no longer be missing. Could it be amended as one measure that people employed in Ida-Viru County are not required to have prior experience and professional education, just as the police leader will not be required to do in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U91	There are a number of aspects to this question, I will try to answer them briefly. First of all, it is not true that the amendment to the Police and Border Guard Act abolishes the requirement that the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board must have experience in police work. It was established already in 2006. Since 2006, the conditions imposed on the candidate of the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board include both prior service in the police system and at least five years of management experience in any Estonian state institution. In addition to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and the relevant departments have been mentioned. The amendment to the Police and Border Guard Act now emphasizes in particular that the largest public sector organisation in Estonia must be run by a person with long-term experience. This requirement is the main focus of the conditions for the candidate and, in my opinion, it is an extremely correct step. We have very few large organisations in Estonia. As far as I know, the Police and Border Guard Board is the second largest organisation, the largest one should be Eesti Energia with 7400 employees. As has been said, the Police and Border Guard Board, with about 5,500 employees, is in second place, and it is clear that the most important thing is its leader's leadership capacity, leadership experience. But I'm sure he's got to have an education. These requirements are all very clearly stated in the amendment that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the entire honourable Parliament are dealing with. As far as Narva and Jõhvi are concerned, it is clear that in an organisation of this size, there will probably never be a situation in which all posts have been filled. There's such a thing as natural fluidity. The number of posts envisaged should be determined on the basis of a clear analysis of the specific composition. The current formations are based on the 2010 analysis, but since the circumstances have changed, we will clarify the circumstances. It is certainly clear that the population is located and the risks have changed accordingly. The most important prerequisite for filling jobs is the motivation of people, the motivation of policemen. Next year, I believe that this should improve considerably thanks to the wage reform wage increase. This is particularly the case for those in lower positions. I will bring out, in particular, those with risks of life or increased risks at all, such as criminal investigators, police officers, border surveillance and patrol lines, law enforcement patrols, district police officers, or district constables in the language of the people. So there is progress. But it is clear that this is only one of many steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U92	Thank you very much. Please, Eldar Efendiev, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U93	Dear Minister, Once again, I would like to ask you the same question: is there really no intention in the Ministry of the Interior to pool relief police seats not only in Ida-Virumaa, but throughout Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U94	Auxiliary police station if there are no such places. Assistant police officers are helpers on a voluntary basis and, in my opinion, the principle that the more we are able to involve the help police, or community, across Estonia, especially in areas that are scattered, the better. No one has ever been able to say anything you're referring to. Our goal has always been to get help police officers. There are very clear requirements and rules for relief officers. You referred to language requirements here. Assistant police officers are subject to the same language requirements as police officers. Assistant police officers have the right to intervene actively in the event of irregularities. In order to prevent or eliminate irregularities, they may give oral and written orders to citizens. In the event of non-compliance, they may threaten by the application of coercion and, if necessary, by the application of direct coercion themselves. In other words, help police officers can act in a way that is very clear about the nature of the violation of fundamental rights and freedoms of people. And it is not permissible for this to be done by a person whose orders are incomprehensible, whose orders are incomplete, whose orders are not understood for one reason or another. I am, of course, referring to language requirements here. That is why help police officers are also subject to strict language requirements, and I do not think it can be any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U95	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U96	Minister, thank you very much. My question is based on the third and fourth questions of inquiry. The answers given to them were, in my opinion, lacking in something. There is a great deal of understanding that there is extensive surveillance, including, of course, illegal activities. I mean, eavesdropping and all. You have denied this, but in the light of the case of Mõdra, Dressen and Ida-Viru County, the people of Estonia cannot be certain that there will be no illegal pursuit, for example. What is the basis for your conviction that it is not there? Or do we have to wait for another scandal that shows that it has been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U97	Thank you for your question, Mr Kallo. After all, you are a person in an excellent position, you are a member of the special committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu, and I think that someone other than you should ask for it. Are you really saying that in the Republic of Estonia there will be extensive wiretapping within the framework of surveillance activities? Somehow I don't think you do. You are perfectly aware of the conditions and circumstances under which surveillance activities can be carried out in Estonia. As far as eavesdropping is concerned, I have commented on this June. In Estonia there are very few cases of eavesdropping; they do not make up any percentage of criminal matters. In most cases, this is done with the permission of the court, mainly in cases of serious drug crime. If you are of the opinion that this should not be done to prevent drug crime, I am sorry, but I cannot agree with that. Just as in other European countries, serious crimes involving organised crime are committed in the Republic of Estonia, which can only be proven by using the possibilities provided for by law in accordance with the rule of law for various surveillance activities. It is precisely this committee, to which you belong, that has been set up to supervise the security authorities in order to monitor the actions that the security authorities are carrying out with the permission of the court. On 1 January, the legislative amendment concerning the whole package of surveillance activities is known to enter into force, which is more refined and more comprehensive. I think you, along with other people from your group, have participated in these very long debates, both in this and in the previous legislative committee. In my opinion, the legislative regulation in this respect will only become clearer, even more thoughtful and more exhaustive. So I dare not accept your statement about eavesdropping.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U98	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U99	Mr. Minister! I'm coming back to the issue of an assistant police officer. We know that relief officers must be prepared and, after preparation, they must pass the test. In this regard, I ask how many of them are unable to pass the test at the first test. If you don't know the percentage, I'll ask you what happens if the assistant cop doesn't pass the exam. Is he going on or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U100	According to the law of an auxiliary police officer, there are really courses that need to be completed by an assistant police officer. It is provided for teaching, training for a specific number of hours and its validation by the exam. And it will be possible to improve your knowledge skills in the future. In my opinion, these skills requirements are not too strict. At the same time, it should be noted that the law on assistant police has not been in force for a very long time. Over the next year, we will examine the need for legislative changes. In any case, in my opinion, the aim should be to set reasonable standards for the assistance police and to find people who meet these requirements among the volunteers. I think Estonia still has much room for improvement in this respect. Statistics say that we have little involvement of volunteers in different areas, including security, compared, for example, to some countries in Central Europe or Scandinavia. The potential exists in communities. The question is how to encourage people to come, and one way is to give them a very clear status, including state support. I can say that the law on assistant police has given the area a very clear and European legislative framework. The money has already been allocated this year, as well as for next year, to get equipment for auxiliary police officers on personal protective equipment and uniforms. From autumn onwards, all the prefectures, as well as the Police and Border Guard Board, have coordinators to deal specifically with encouraging volunteers, coordinating their activities and negotiating with local authorities. This work has been very active and, by the end of next year, we hope for clear results in the involvement of volunteers in both the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board, who will need volunteers to rescue them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U101	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Let's open the negotiations. Eldar Efendiev, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U102	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I only came here to clarify the issue of the crisis in the system. And why? Because the Minister, answering this question, pointed out that since the police and border guards joined in 2009, there were problems that could not be resolved in the short term. So there was a crisis in the system, or I say it again, a systemic crisis in the system, as we have said. At the same time, we thought that the Police and Border Guard Board would become almost the largest institution in Estonia. On the other hand, the area is linked to a rather strict regime, to specific rules, in the sense that the Head of the Office gives orders to subordinate structures and their leaders and that they are to be enforced. That is why we raised this issue. In fact, there are no orders in this strict structure, plus disinformation and even illegal action. The case that caused the scandal really is illegal. However, solving the case is not that some drivers have had to resign from their duties; this system still has to be activated. If the situation that exists now persists, the crisis will continue, and it will be difficult for me to say what it will lead to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U103	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U104	Next are the members of the Riigikogu Kadri Simson, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Sõtnik, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev and Mailis Repsi's inquiry on the financing of EAS business environment infrastructure projects submitted on 14 November 2012 (No 224) to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. On behalf of the heirs, I would like to ask my colleague, Kadri Samson, to the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 14 members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry to Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, regarding the financing of EAS business environment infrastructure projects. The inquiry was handed over on 14 November, and it does not focus on the wider problems that have become public in the last few months with regard to the EAS, the next question of questioning is the question of how the EAS could help and should help to keep jobs in the Estonian regions, but unfortunately it does not fulfil this task. Just today, I heard news from national broadcasting that according to Eurostat, Estonia has been the country with the fastest increase in labour tax. This raises the question of why companies that are very important to Estonia should still keep jobs here at all, especially if they do not see the slightest positive action by the state. As we know, during the economic crisis, the Estonian state did not contribute much to maintaining its jobs, but the funds of the European Union were well used. The specific problem concerns Sindi city of Pärnumaa, which operates AS Sindi Lanka, which is a very large employer in the sense of Sindi: it employs 54 people. Unfortunately, the company is located in an area where the access road leading to it is inappropriate for driving in winter, and its angle of inclination is too large. The company itself does not have the money to rebuild the road, nor does Sindi City. This has led to a problem with EAS, as winter snow cleaning alone is not enough to make it safe for large vehicles to drive there. The Sindi City Government has commissioned a road section project to reduce the angle of climb and minimise the risk to drivers. The City of Sindi has turned to EAS because the city's budget does not have the money needed to support entrepreneurship in order to eliminate the bottleneck. EAS has given a formal reply to Sindi City and has said that they do not have a programme in which to submit an application with such content. The call for applications concerning support for business environment infrastructure projects took place in December 2010 and took advantage of all the amounts planned for the period 2007-2013. Consequently, the questioners have four questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications that I am not going to read out. Maybe the minister himself will do that to make it easier to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U106	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U107	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! First of all, the answer to the questioning concerns the country's programme to increase the competitiveness of the regions, namely the sub-direction to make the business environment in this programme more attractive. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for this programme. I can answer to the extent that the relevant information has reached me from there. The first question is whether it is true that the EAS-shared funding for supporting business environment infrastructure projects, which had been allocated for the period 2007-2013, has all been used up in 2010. That's not true. The EUR 6.9 million of unused funds for investments in the business environment infrastructure projects of the programme to increase the competitiveness of the regions. The second question: 'How do you assess the situation where grants granted for the period 2007 to 2013 have been used up three years before the project deadline? ' From the point of view of supporting infrastructure, this is not the case as the programme continues and is open. The third question: 'The early disbursement of support may indicate that there are very serious shortcomings in this area. What are the opportunities for companies whose infrastructure needs support? ' One way is to use the sub-sector resources of the programme to increase the competitiveness of regions through local authorities. Fourth: How would you, as Minister for Economic Affairs, solve the problem mentioned above? Do you see the possibility of supporting this project with exceptional state budget resources? ' Given the importance of this project for the municipality of Sindi, a respected questioner, I think it is elementary for the municipality to take care of this entourage and, according to my information, of a section of the road about a half mile long, so that the trucks can get up in the winter. The problem would have been solved! The amount of money I may be wrong, but I was talking to Pärnu County Elder today about how much this project could cost about 30,000 euros. We will allocate money to local governments to maintain roads, and next year these amounts will increase a little. I mean, not a little bit, but a lot. If we think about Sindi municipality, I agree with you that this is an important company. And the owners claim that I haven't met them, but at least according to your words, they're going away. If we now expect such fatal consequences for the Estonian economic environment, I think there is nothing more natural than that the municipality of Sindi will make this entourage and the road that passes from there for the winter. If the municipality does not have this money, it is possible to seek assistance from a regional programme with available funds of EUR 6.9 million. At the same time, I would point out that municipalities, non-profit organisations and foundations can contact this programme. The aim of the support is primarily to create jobs in rural areas. I'm sure Sindi belongs in the countryside. The amount can be applied for in the relevant Minister for the Interior or, more likely, in the Regional Minister's regulation, which is equivalent to the additional social tax over a period of three years. Thus, the level of infrastructure development, the amount of aid for renovation, depends directly on the new jobs created by the undertakings benefiting from the infrastructure, and the condition is that the object to be built, such as the road, must be in public use for at least five years, so that other undertakings can use the infrastructure if necessary. The municipality's minimum own contribution is 15% plus the difference between the size of the investment and the additional social tax over a period of three years. The municipality's net debt shall not exceed 60%. So this is another option, too, but everything depends on the real situation, business plans, etc. I'd prefer that first option. It is an object of such size that I believe should be affordable to you, given precisely that it involves the normal functioning of one company in winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U108	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U109	Minister, thank you very much. Quick line. You know very well that during the years of the recession, the local governments were deprived of the money for road maintenance. So when January, February, and March were snowy, the parish elders had to keep their fingers crossed so that the snow would not come down in December. There was no money to clean it up. I'm sure there wasn't enough money left to build a road. My question is: when EAS has sent a letter to one municipality that there is no money anymore, we distributed everything in 2010, but in fact it turns out that 6,9 million euros in kroons is a very large amount of money! The year before the end of the programme has not been shared, how will these applications be accepted? Which door does a municipality or company have to enter with a competent request so that they can speak at the EAS? Why don't you give me some advice? You're closer to EAS than any mayor or mayor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U110	I am just as far away from EAS as any mayor and mayor of Estonia, let alone you. EAS is a private foundation run by the board of directors and the board of directors, with whom I, as Minister of Economic Affairs, have a certain agreement that we conclude every year or for a longer period. Similarly, the Minister for Regional Affairs also has an agreement under which EAS takes certain programmes to comply with it. However, I am happy to comment on what you said. I listened carefully to the introduction to your inquiry, where you referred to this correspondence. I could have checked it or asked the EAS people to explain it, if it was really said that the municipality had applied and the EAS had replied that the programme was over. But if I may, I'll speculate in front of you in a chair. I think that this municipality probably wrote a letter asking if there were any other amounts for a matter, and the answer may have touched on another programme, perhaps from the point of view of the respondent, on which all the decisions have been taken. This concerns the development of industrial areas in local areas. For industrial areas, at least all funding decisions have been taken. But we don't know how it was. I do not have any information at all that anyone has applied for any investment aid in relation to a comprehensive industrial area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U111	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U112	Dear Minister, I'm trying to make sense here. Why don't you help me with that? When we were here listening to Kadri Samson's question, we realized that the company really needs help. There's no help from the state. At the same time, KredEx, which is active in your field, is ready to guarantee a loan from a company that already has a burning stench, so the entire Estonian state felt it. Where's the logic? Should you also recommend wealthy or politician sons-in-laws or something similar to them so that they can count on the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U113	The aid is not needed by the company. In my opinion, the municipality should now take care of one of the basic things that is necessary to put the municipal route to one of the companies in order. The driving conditions of this road become impossible when there is a lot of snow in winter, so it is a specific section of the road. I haven't been there myself to look at it with my own eyes. But yes, no help from the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U114	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U115	Minister, thank you very much. You said you were as far away from EAS as the questioner Kadri Simson. But how many members of the board can Kadri Simson appoint an EAS board?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U116	Kadri Simson can always come up with proposals if he has dignified candidates for the EAS Council. I have always said to those people who criticise the councils, their politicisation, etc. that I am always available to reporters, as well as to you, Mr Tamm, of course also to Esther Tuikkool and Kadri Samson. You can always make suggestions if you have a good, dignified candidate at the council. By the way, a lot of people have done it and what to deny, if there's been a good candidate, he's actually gotten into the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U117	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. This question is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U118	The next item is the inquiry to Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications of Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velmani, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Sõtnik, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo and Mailis Repsi, submitted on 15 November of the Riigikogu members of the Riigikogu. I ask Kalev Kallo to speak on behalf of the speakers in the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U119	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue with the Enterprise Development Foundation. In September 2011, an audit carried out by the European Commission reached the Foundation's leaders. Surprisingly to EAS, it also proposed to require the return of Paldiski Tsingipada from the company Heiti Vääli to EUR 700000, since the granting of the funds had violated the principle of the incentive effect of State aid that the company should not have started work before the application for aid was submitted. The audit recommended that a comprehensive analysis be carried out, as the authors of the audit felt that there might be a systemic error. According to the Postimees newspaper, EAS started to investigate the matter for its part and, by means of random checks, found that similar violations still occur in the amount of millions of euros. It was only in May 2012 that an action plan was adopted on how to proceed. By the autumn of this year, it was established that EAS had infringed State aid rules in 61 projects and that the total amount of possible recovery related to the infringement was EUR 10,5 million. It is also important that if the infringements had been identified by an external auditor, this could have endangered the accreditation of EAS and caused the freezing of all euro payments for the Estonian state. However, EAS itself sent a press release to the public, which said that there were problems with grants amounting to EUR 8.5 million. The beneficiaries are threatened with recovery and, at worst, bankruptcy. Businesses are also considering going to court to protect their rights. In view of all these circumstances, the decision of the Council in April to pay the head of the EAS a prize of EUR 4500. On 5 November, the Postimees newspaper announced that in 2010 and 2011, the EAS measure "Organisation of International Events and Conferences' has provided more grants than was promised and several dozen organisers are expected to recover a total amount of EUR 428000. According to the Postman, this error is likely to be paid by the EAS itself. In this regard, the heirs have a total of six questions that we are hoping for answers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U120	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U121	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would point out that the situation has changed compared to the time before the questioning was made, when certain information was published in the press. The information contained in the enquiry is probably based on the interim phase of the analysis carried out by the Enterprise Development Foundation on compliance with State aid rules, the results of which were not conclusive. Twenty-one projects have now been covered by the analysis, with additional expertise being carried out. It is possible that they will lead to a shortening of the list of problematic investment grants. It is possible to apply for State aid authorisation ex post in cooperation with the company, while some projects are likely to require a recovery decision. However, no conclusion can yet be reached. Of course, this can be done when the views of the European Commission are also known. In addition, the legal interpretation room in question certainly requires, in one way or another, a final statement by the court. I will be honest with you about my initial assessment. In many cases, this is a problem raised by legally very controversial auditors. We must respect the opinion of the auditors, but there will always be an opportunity for the company to argue, and then it will be clear how one or the other set of rules can be interpreted in a particular case. Before I go to the questions, I will sum up the content of the problem in a very simple way. Indeed, in accordance with European Union law, aid granted to an undertaking has an incentive effect if the beneficiary has submitted an application for aid to the Member State concerned before the start of work to carry out the project. The start of the work shall be deemed to be either the start of the works or the first legally binding agreement for the commissioning of the technology, with the exception of preliminary feasibility studies. These rather simple rules, however, have resulted in a number of interpretations resulting from real life, particularly in the face of economic crisis. With the large numbers that EAS developed in the interim phase of its analysis and on which the press published this topic, all the cases in which such a question could arise have been summarised. As I said in the introduction, compared to actual investments, the implementation of projects and the general guidelines on European regional aid, it has been achieved that the number of projects with problems has fallen considerably. But the whole issue has certainly not been taken off the agenda. Now the questions. 'How do you comment on the situation if there has been such a unfortunate incident in your administration? ' Partly I have already responded to that, but it is certainly worth recalling that the 2007-2013 period for the use of European Union funds is close to the end. The grant money allocated to Estonia has been invested mostly, and the targeted use of the grants granted during the period is currently thoroughly monitored, following all the rules. This is not just about this particular programme. There are other measures that we are in fact only learning how to interpret one or the other norm and assess their consequences from the point of view of the implementing body, which is EAS in this case, but also from the point of view of local auditors and case law. There are inevitably different interpretations here. It can be said that the findings of all audits do not constitute unambiguous infringements; often, it is necessary to argue matters clearly. I must say that the Enterprise Estonia, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and also companies have worked quite well together. Solutions have been found for problematic projects and we hope that these projects, which the European Commission can approve in the context of State aid, will also give a positive outcome. The second question: 'When were you informed of the situation in EAS as Minister for Economic Affairs? ' I was informed in April this year that compliance with all state aid rules could be an issue for a large number of projects. The subject needed further investigation and this has been the subject of the following months. Question 3: 'How do you assess the fact that EAS tried to show the amount of problem at EUR 2 million less? " Rather, it is a matter of misunderstanding, not of tinkering the problem. The starting point for addressing this issue has been the fact that the audit drew attention to problems with projects amounting to EUR 2 million. The EAS then carried out its own analysis, as I noted, and found that the potential risk of projects is EUR 8,5 million. That's 10,5 million in total. In different contexts, one number or another has been mentioned. In my opinion, it has not been attempted to reduce the problem, rather the opposite. The number and financial volume of problematic projects have initially been lower than those proposed after additional analysis. The fourth question is whether I consider it right that the Council awarded the head of the EAS a prize of EUR 4500. By this decision, the Council has not exceeded its competence. It is up to the Governing Council to award a fee to the Governing Board. In essence, I may have an attitude towards this decision, but legally it is correct. Question 5: Have you taken any steps to avoid courts between companies and EAS? ' To avoid a trial, EAS has worked closely with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. The fact that 21 projects remain on the sieve shows that most of the issues have been resolved. On the background, I note so much that over 7 000 projects have been funded by EAS during the six-year period. This period is not yet over, and in 2013 too, support will be provided through EAS and its implementing entities. Through the EAS, business applications decisions have been made over the whole period, amounting to EUR 338 million. The proportions of the amounts are very different. However, as far as the courts are concerned, you know that according to the law, the decisions of the EAS can also be challenged administratively, and in this case the dispute solver is the Minister of Economic Affairs. But obviously, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has certain limits to direct interference with the activities of EAS, as the company can also, by law, challenge any such decisions of EAS before the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Question 6: "Who do you think should be responsible for the problems encountered in EAS and the inconvenience caused to businesses? ' During the economic crisis, between 2007 and 2010, state investments through EAS were very important for Estonian companies and the economy as a whole. I would remind you that the initial planned volume of the technology investment programme was approximately EEK 250 million. It is precisely because of the economic crisis that we increased it about three times. And the reason was that many investments by companies, which in the medium to long term would have been very necessary to improve the competitiveness of productivity-enhancing companies, actually fell short, even though some contracts had been concluded and some companies might have been knocked down. During the economic crisis, however, the policy of banks on various investment projects changed sharply, and especially from an industrial point of view, we considered that these programmes should be supported. In this sense, of course, I also understand the EAS, which gained three additional workloads. In other words, if we take the whole context into account and look at the discussions in 2009 and 2010 at European level, at European level, at the way in which the various industries were supported, what the European Commission's views on State aid were, I think the current extremely formal interpretation is, in fact, questionable. But we have to accept the rules as they are, and it is likely that the final truth will be revealed in the case of several companies in court. That's the kind of questioning and that kind of answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U122	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U123	Dear Minister for Economic Affairs, When you answered the previous question, you said that if we had good candidates for the Council, you would listen to the proposals. Currently members of the EAS Board are Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Riigikogu, Reform Party; Tea Varrak; Kalev Lillo, member of the Riigikogu, Reform Party; Ahti King from your Ministry, as well as Kairi Teniste, Enn Veskimägi, Kristina Tauts from your party, Ivi Eenmaa Reform Party, Arvi Altmäe and Tiit Reha. The chairman of the council is Cinzia Siig. You say that you are not dependent on their decisions at all, and that even if the prize had not been approved by you, the Council was entitled to determine that. To what extent do you have the opportunity to call on or replace board members? What, and to what extent should the Council do wrong, so that you exercise your right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U124	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U125	I do not want to be spiteful during the Christmas peace, but the way you describe the status of the members of the private foundation board, the nature of their work and their personal responsibility has not been valid in the Estonian state for more than ten years. Maybe it goes to the city of Tallinn like this, I really don't know. But the city of Tallinn is also represented at the EAS Board • Kairi Teniste, Head of the Tallinn Enterprise Board. I suggest you turn to him. If the city of Tallinn that has submitted this candidate has made some suggestions, ask him how he voted at the time and why he did so. The councils, as well as all members, must make their own decisions and take responsibility for them. Otherwise, it would be pointless to put this council together. Otherwise, it should be the minister who makes every single decision. However, no minister could do such a job. I do not know where you take it that the Council must go in coordination with the Minister to decide whether or not to reward the Bureau. Good morning. Why this council, if he can't even decide it? Then why consider him? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U126	Dear Minister, It is clear that all these facts have severely damaged the reputation of EAS. We could read comments from the former chairman of the EAS Board, where he stated that all the decisions and executions of the board were actually based on the decisions of the board. While last week both the Chairwoman of the EAS Board and the Chairman of the Board, Raul Parusk, visited us in the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Parusk stressed that this is all actually a risk for businesses. He did not express any responsibility in this area, at least in words. But my question is, in fact, about the reserve relating to the EAS appeals: does it exist and, if so, how much? And can't it be used to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U127	I was unable to properly monitor this introduction to what is a company's risk and what is not a company's risk. When we are talking about applying for State aid or support for technology investments, whatever other business support is applied for, the company de ive must also, of course, monitor what the rules are. These rules are available to everyone. We know no one can excuse themselves by not knowing the rules. I have stated my principled attitude, as I have already tried to explain today. If we take into account the context of the economic crisis and the fact that EAS and businesses are actually on one side and paragraph on the other side, when we look at these individual decisions, some of which are also contested by me, then frankly, in most cases, I believe that both companies and EAS have been very bona fide. Yeah, well, there's a lot of projects in real life that come up with a lot of things. At the same time, I would make a big mistake if I were to generalise this problem to the point that EAS' reputation is now hopelessly bad and everything like that. Whoever's doing this is gonna happen! The error must be corrected and, in my opinion, the most rigorous interpretation of the relevant legislation and the corresponding solution are being sought in cooperation with economic operators at the moment. As far as the appeal-related reserve is concerned, you must have asked about this second measure, which includes grants for international events. I believe, however, that this is a completely different matter. For you see, the appeal-related reserve can be used when it is said that the company or, in a particular case, the NGO has received support legally. However, at the moment, the auditor and probably the EU directorate in question claim that the company should not have received any support from the state aid point of view. Consequently, no State aid may be granted from any other budget line if, in principle, the undertaking is not eligible for aid. But once again, I'm analyzing all these cases, I think they're workable. Of course, we'd like to see 100 percent of perfect decisions, no mistakes. But having also communicated with a number of entrepreneurs who have been very prominent in the media, I have concluded that sometimes it is important not to be as critical of decision-makers as we try to be. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U128	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U129	Minister, thank you very much. It seems to me that it would be really nice to be an official in your administration. Whatever you screw up, the minister says it happens. All we have to do is fix it and get in trouble like there isn't. I'd like that. But in answer to the fifth question, what steps are going to be taken to avoid courts, you said that these things could first be dealt with administratively by the Minister and that some of these cases already exist. However, if the Minister is to express his dissatisfaction with the Minister in this way, does it not occur to the Minister that the Council has done something wrong, that the more competent people should be put into office there, or that there will be too many of them to resolve the issues with the Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U130	Again, this Christmas peace slows me down from answering that question right now. First of all, I want to say that people have also been forced to leave the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but in general I think that there really is a time in Estonia when good people are relatively short-lived goods. You always have to be able to tell that if there is any error, whether it was simply laziness and sloppyness or a heavy workload. That's why you have to hang out with someone who's made a mistake. However, as far as the EAS Council is concerned, I repeat once again: anyone who, in one way or another, has received an EAS decision on the non-satisfaction of an application can file an administrative complaint with the Ministry of Economic Affairs in accordance with the law. The decision will be made by the Minister for Economic Affairs. By the way, these complaints are quite numerous and from very different areas, so the answers take a very long time. It is then also possible to challenge the Minister's decision. Now, you should also know this: under the procedure provided for by the Structural Support Act, no substantive decision is taken by the Council on the financing of one or the other specific project. Decisions on projects are subject to very thorough internal control rules, which include separation of responsibilities and different decision-making procedures at different levels. This decision is formally taken by the board of the EAS, not by the board of directors.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U131	Thank you very much. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U132	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It is very nice and easy to discuss money that is not personal money, but that of the state or anyone else. What I would like to ask you is that if you had EAS and you were 100% owner there, what you would say to people under your command, who would report to you, where there are 10,5 million deficits.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U133	No one has submitted such reports. A summary of the impact on the economy and the impact on businesses can be made next year when we have received final answers in each specific case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U134	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. This enquiry is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U135	Agenda item 8 is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Aivar Riisalu, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta and Priit Toobali to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts on 15 November this year. I'm asking for the chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U136	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 November, 14 members of the Centre Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The content of the inquiry is the subject of heavy goods vehicles. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures clearly states that tolls based on distance in the road transport sector are a fair and efficient economic measure for the use of infrastructure to implement a sustainable transport policy. Such charges are directly linked to the use of infrastructure, the environmental characteristics of vehicles, and the place and time of use of vehicles, so a tax rate corresponding to the cost of pollution and congestion resulting from the actual use of vehicles on the road can be set. Furthermore, tolls do not distort competition in the internal market as these taxes should be paid by all undertakings, irrespective of their country of origin or country of residence, in proportion to the intensity of the use of the road network. The subject is recommended in the European Union and Estonia has therefore not introduced a toll. At the same time, several heavy goods companies have been concerned that our companies have been put in a worse situation than other companies, as Estonia has not collected a number of tax money for which it could improve the state of Estonian infrastructure. The heavy duty in Estonia applies only to vehicles registered in the Estonian Traffic Register. The subject is, for example, about EUR 7 per day in Lithuania, EUR 8 per day in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, and EUR 14 per day in Hungary. Some countries also use tolls based on the distance travelled. In Germany, Euro 3 powered trucks are subject to a theme of EUR 0.224 per kilometre and EUR 0,155 per kilometre for Euro 5 engines. Also: heavy goods transport companies have ordered their drivers to avoid refueling in Estonia where possible, as fuel is much more expensive in Estonia than elsewhere. Minister, we have four questions for you on this subject. Maybe you're so nice and you read them yourself to save time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U137	Thank you. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the first three questions together, so I will read them all to you first. The first was: 'Why has Estonia decided not to introduce a toll on heavy goods vehicles? Secondly, 'How much tax money is not collected by Estonia because we do not have a toll? Has it been analyzed? " Third: How unfair do you consider it to be when Estonian heavy goods vehicles help to maintain infrastructure in other countries, but vehicles from other countries do not contribute money through tolls to maintain Estonian infrastructure? ' Here's what I'm gonna say. Under the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, Member States are obliged to apply the property tax on heavy goods vehicles to vehicles registered in their own country, and there is also the possibility of applying road tolls and user charges. According to this directive, heavy goods vehicles in Estonia are subject to minimum property tax rates, which are applied to all heavy goods vehicles registered in Estonia with a full or registration mass of 12 tonnes. Since you are being crushed and contaminated by heavy trucks, the directive also allows for the taxation of road use. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has analysed the introduction of road user charges in Estonia and concluded that this is not feasible. The reasons are as follows: First, the aforementioned Directive also provides that road user charges must not be directly or indirectly discriminatory as a result of the country of residence of the carrier or the country of registration of the vehicle or the place of departure or destination of the transport. This means that vehicles registered both in Estonia and abroad must be taxed on an equal basis and it is in no way possible to charge only tolls, i.e. road user charges only from external carriers. Secondly, it is therefore appropriate to apply tolls in particular in those countries where, due to their geographical location, the share of transit traffic is significant in relation to the share of inland transport. This is not the case with Estonia. On average, there are about 450 foreign vehicles per day on Estonian roads. This figure is based on expert judgement as there are no official statistics on the crossing of borders between Member States. So 450 foreign vehicles a day. Assuming that all foreign vehicles entering Estonia are purchased daily vignettes, the price of which is set by the directive at a maximum of 11 euros, the amount received from external carriers as road user charges would amount to 2 million euros per year. Remember this figure: EUR 2 million per year. According to the Estonian Road Administration, 21117 N vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 12 tonnes are registered in the Estonian Traffic Register. These are so-called heavy goods vehicles, which are also subject to the property tax for heavy goods vehicles in Estonia. Since a Member State may apply only annual tax rates to vehicles registered in its own country, the level of charges based on Annex 23 to the Directive, according to which the estimated average annual fee for a truck for using a road is 1000 euros, would be paid by Estonian carriers to the extent of 20 million euros. Thirdly, it is important to note that more than a third of the vehicles registered in Estonia travel most of their working time abroad ♪ in Estonia there is a minimal number of vehicles. However, the Directive allows vehicles registered in a local register to be subject only to an annual tax, which means that these carriers would pay road user charges both for their stay in Estonia and abroad, where transport is actually carried out. Also, despite the introduction of road user charges, it is mandatory to maintain property tax for trucks, i.e. heavy goods tax, which is received by the state budget at around EUR 3.7 million per year. Thus, the introduction of road user charges would significantly affect carriers operating international transports who compete with carriers from other countries, but as a whole the additional tax burden would be added to all Estonian heavy goods operators, which ultimately raises the final price of both transport services and goods to consumers and reduces Estonia's export capacity. The reason why there is no toll in Estonia is therefore simple: we have not considered it reasonable to tax our business and consumer further, as this will make our export capacity worse. Question 4: 'Why is fuel cheaper in the Member States of the European Union than in Estonia? 'The fuel prices of motor vehicles are not regulated nationally, they develop under market conditions and they are determined by the fuel retailers. Fuel excise duty and VAT included in the final price of the fuel consumer are the legislator, but it does not conflict with the relevant decisions of the European Union, in particular with regard to the minimum rates for excise duties on fuel. The absolute statement in the question, as if fuel in other countries of the European Union were cheaper than in Estonia, does not just correspond, unfortunately, to the truth in favour of you, in favour of me. We checked both the average prices of diesel fuel for 47 weeks and the following 48 weeks on the website of the International Road Transport Union, which is widely used by EU carriers. It turned out that in 18 countries diesel was more expensive than in Estonia, in eight countries it was cheaper. We also looked at 45 weeks and 30 weeks at random, when in 21 countries fuel was more expensive than in Estonia and the fifth was cheaper. Apparently in winter, this intercourse has deteriorated because the Nordic countries then use colder winter diesel fuel, which is more expensive than summer fuel. In terms of petrol, the picture is more in Estonia's favor, which is to your detriment and in my favour. With taxes, for example, according to the Oil Bulletin website on 19 November, the price was lower than the price in Estonia in only three countries: Bulgaria, Cyprus and Romania. This means that the price of Estonian fuel is much lower than the European Union average. It should also be noted that excise duty on petrol is lower than the rate in Estonia in only four countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U139	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U140	Minister, thank you very much. You must be mistaken if you think we like high prices. You'd rather like a high price than decide, for example, on the price of electricity you've designed. But it's your opinion! However, I doubt that Estonia is doing the right thing, being, as far as I know, the only country in the European Union where no toll is used. Maybe you have other data? For example, recently the heads of the dairy company Hello approached us and asked how to ensure fair competition when Lithuanian dairy cars come to Estonia for milk and transport our milk to Lithuania without having to pay the fee for tea. Where is equal treatment and equal competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U141	On your initial remark, I would point out that you came up with this as an absolute fact that Estonia has the most expensive fuel. I at least read it like that out of the question, and it seemed to me that there was a direct attack on me. It's like I'm the one who set the price for the most expensive fuel. Of course, given the general desire of the inquisitors to weaken the government's activities, there is nothing to be surprised about. But all right, let's get to the point. I've been, by the way, talking to Mr. Kruuda about this. He has a rather peculiar understanding that with this toll we are, as if, reducing cheap raw materials in this case, we are talking about the export of agricultural products to other countries. So this cheap raw material stays here, we ourselves can add value to it here and so on. I think this overall objective is reasonable, but whether to try to increase transport costs on this side is questionable. Especially when we look at how transport costs are distributed between different sectors in Estonia that actually export. And once again, let us remember: if we were to impose this road user charge or charge, no matter what we call it, on the basis of current statistics, we would receive 2 million from foreign cars, but at the same time we would be burdening our cars, our carriers with 20 million euros. Is it really worth burdening your carriers to get EUR 22 million? By doing so, this tax actually paid by carriers will fall on our exporters either way. That is why we have not taken this step. In other words, we are not able to talk here about large sums of money, so that it is as if we could get more money from non-registered carriers in Estonia to build you here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U142	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U143	Dear Minister, I don't know, in the end, maybe you could say that somehow 1: 0 in your favor? But that's it. You have so convincingly explained why you should not apply road tax in Estonia, and perhaps you are right. But here's my question. With regard to our inquiry, did you suddenly examine how much money is being paid from our transport sector as tolls to Europe and beyond?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U144	To be deserving to you, I offer you a tie. Anyway, it's a very worthwhile questioning. But I owe you an answer to that question. This would require a slightly more in-depth survey of carrier companies in order to bring the number together more or less. However, it is estimated that this can be calculated. If there is any interest in this, surely the organisation of car carriers would let us know more or less how much our carriers in the European Union are paying for these vignettes. But right now, I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U145	Thank you. In the case of an inquiry, each member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask a question. Any more questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U146	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I do not know if this statistics are true, but I hope that the Minister has true figures. But, in fact, the reason for this inquiry was the letter from Estonian transport operators. They asked for this question to be submitted. There must have been some disagreement that they did so and asked us to address this question to the Minister. I hope that we will address this issue further, and we will finally understand clearly why this tax has been introduced in the rest of the European Union and is not in Estonia. However, if the figures given by the Minister were true and the Estonian transport companies would face an additional huge tax burden, then I agree with you, Mr Minister, and I also offer a tie for my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U147	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There are no more requests, I will close the negotiations and I will close the debate on the eighth point.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U148	The ninth question is the inquiry submitted on 15 November by the members of the Riigikogu Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Toobali and Ester Tuiksoo concerning the shipping line of Tartu. (No 248) Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. In the name of the heirs, please speak to Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U149	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 November, five members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, on the subject of the Tartu-Pihkva shipping line. Since 2000, there has been a discussion in the media and relevant areas that Tartu should be opened immediately. In 2003, 1.2 million kroons were already contributed to this project, when a floating border point was built for the purpose of the shipping of Tartu. Half of the money has come from the Enterprise Estonia Foundation and the other half has been added by the Estonian Foundation for the Development of Inland Waterways. As the heirs point out, hope has sprung up every year, but the project has not yet come true. At the same time, South-Estonia's tourism development plan until 2020 foresees that by 2020 Lake Peipsi will have open ship traffic in the direction of Pihkva. It would certainly invigorate our tourism sector. In this regard, we have three questions and we are asking the Minister for answers to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U150	Thank you very much. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U151	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first question: 'Do you consider it possible to launch passenger ship traffic between Tartu and Pihkva? ' Launching passenger ship traffic between Tartu and Pihkva is possible if there is suitable infrastructure, ship and carrier ready to start the shipping line. Second, " What are the economic and political obstacles to this now? " Looking back a bit in time gives an idea of why passenger ship traffic on Peipsi between Estonia and Russia has not yet started. If you do not go into the chronology of the tests to start the connection, the subject can be summarised as follows. In the 2000s, both Estonian and Russian authorities have taken the necessary steps to open the shipping connection, as at that time it seemed to be of commercial interest to open this route. Initially, there were a number of technical and bureaucratic obstacles to the opening of the line which began to resolve over time as a result of the interaction between the two countries. Unfortunately, then, the commercial interest in opening this shipping line diminished. Question 3: "What benefits could Tartu's passenger ship traffic bring to the Estonian economy? ' As far as the Ministry of Economic Affairs is aware, no analysis of the profitability of this shipping line has recently been carried out. But it can be assumed that the shipping line can be attractive for both Estonian and Russian tourists and contribute to the development of the tourism sector in Tartu and Pihkva to some extent. At the same time, it should be noted that the Estonian-Latvian-Russian cross-border cooperation programme co-ordinated by the Ministry of the Interior... I'm sorry! ... three ports located on the Estonian inland waterways will be repeated and the port of Kallaste will be established in Tartu, Mustvee, Räpina. We hope that this will have a positive impact on the future development of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U152	Thank you very much. I'm so glad some questioning makes you feel so good! Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U153	Minister, I also like your positive undertone. I am also glad that you like this subject. But I'll ask what happens next. This whole initiative has been dragging on since 2000. Can we hope that tomorrow, for example, you will try to do something in the Ministry to open this shipping line? The tourism development plan also wants to be completed, and this is quite important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U154	Maybe Santa's gonna bag this shipping line for me. But seriously, I've been familiar with the development of this project for years, and I'm reminded of the few events involved in this preparation. It is clear that this shipping line will never be a dotable shipboard route. The opening of the line can take place when there is a real commercial interest. Something has been done with the efforts we've made so far. I looked up this information expected to be true, so that, in addition to bureaucratic cooperation to be able to travel from one country to another, there was also investment. For example, I have been given information that the Port of Pihkva was invested, but not enough to be opened. By now, the port is bankrupt. The port of Storožinets stands useless and decomposes. It is remembered that Estonia built a floating border crossing point for Praaga. Now this floating border point is standing at the Port of Tartu in the Port of Turku and is falling apart. In short, if there is a commercial interest, I believe that opening the route will not be stuck behind national obstacles, but the current lack of commercial interest, the economic reality, makes it difficult to implement this project.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U155	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U156	Dear Minister, I am not gonna laugh at this thing for the longest time and I know the twists that need to be made on both the Estonian and Russian sides of the year, including the deepening of the waterways at the so-called Estonian gate and the negotiations so that the ships of the Estonian state can fly under our flag in Russian territorial waters. But my question is this: can you confirm that the political problems in relations between the two countries have found such a solution that it is not an obstacle to starting shipping? However, the fact that a cost-benefit analysis has not been carried out is probably not the only reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U157	I seriously doubt that Estonian-Russian political relations have ever influenced the course of this shipping line. It seems to me that this statement is, to a certain extent, a revision of this shipping line. I understand that political relations between Estonia and Russia can create different moods and different transitions. It's always very interesting to speculate about them. As far as this project is concerned, however, I think that the central issue is actually a commercial interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U158	Thank you very much. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The debate on this point is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U159	Today's tenth item on the agenda is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Jüri Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnuhini, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassilyev, Jaan Õunapuu, Heljo Pikhofi, Kajar Lemberi, Karel Rüütli, Helmen Küti, Neeme Suur and Rein Randver, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, presented on 15 November. Tarmo Tamm speaks on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U160	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry concerns the prospects of Tartu Airport. I am pleased that, when discussing this subject, Mr President, we have once sat at a table and wondered how to fix Tartu Airport. Now the airport is in order, but unfortunately, it is a serious problem. Last year, with the support of European Union funds, the modern-day Tartu Airport celebrated its 65th birthday. Tartu and South Estonians at all are convinced that air traffic has an important role to play in ensuring international connections with Tartu. The development of the airport is essential to ensure the development and accessibility of the city of Tartu and the entire region. In particular, Tartu Airport is seen as an airport fulfilling the role of passenger transport, so that Tallinn, Helsinki and Riga Airports can be relocated to an airplane with which they can continue to fly around the world. However, the national transport development plan for 2006 to 2013 foresees that in the near future Tartu Airport will be able to serve international events and study flights in particular. According to the Ülenurmel Airport's regular passenger return study carried out in 2006, this airport was expected to demand 30000 passengers per year for the first year of operation and an increase in passenger numbers of around 10% was observed in the following years. In the current record year of the airport, i.e. 2010, 23,900 passengers travelled through the airport, 4921 fewer passengers in 2011 and this figure has been steadily decreasing. Currently, 12 scheduled flights are made from Tartu Airport per week: half of them to Tallinn, half to Helsinki. There are just as many aircraft arriving on scheduled flights. The lower than forecast number of passengers is certainly related to the number of connections at Tartu airport and the mismatch between flight schedules and people's expectations and needs, which is why Tallinn and Riga airports are preferred. Unsatisfying has also been caused by missed flights for various reasons. It is also known that the flight schedule does not take into account people flying to work in Finland. In relation to the future of Tartu Airport, Estonian Air's declaration of 31 October adds pessimism that the loss-making airline will, among other things, close the Tartu route. This will halve the scheduled flights at Tartu Airport. AirBaltic has expressed its wish to continue its flights on the Riga Tartu route, but there is no certainty about this at the moment. Minister, please answer our three questions. Perhaps we will then learn more about the future of Tartu airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U161	Thank you very much. I call again the Chair of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U162	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first question is what are the country's plans for the development of scheduled air services at Tartu Airport. I think that the first and most important plan to develop quality airport infrastructure in Tartu has been completed. In my opinion, the direct responsibility of the State to carry out this in cooperation with the various parties and, of course, with the European Union's funds has been met and this gives airlines the opportunity to operate on regular routes. It is clear that the development of air traffic depends on commercial interest. We know that the managers of the airport and the city of Tartu, as well as many other active South-Estonian people, local government leaders are trying to increase the attractiveness of Tartu Airport in the eyes of airlines. This is certainly limited by the fact that it is extremely difficult, not to say difficult, not to say impossible, to subsidise such air links. I also think about the routes that the Tartians and South Estonians probably need most, and which would offer the opportunity to fly to airports other than Tallinn to other parts of our region. We must continue to work on this. Currently, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has no plan to start subsidising Tartu's air connections either with Estonian cities or outside. If there is such demand and we find it essential for the development of South Estonia, we can certainly discuss this issue. In addition, as we know, Tartu is flying on the Helsinki route Flybe. As requested by the questioners, a number of airlines have shown interest. Some of them have started their flights and then shut down their lines. I know that there has been an interest in operating on the Tallinn-Tartu route by the airline Avies, the same company that serves the Tallinn-Kursaare and Tallinn-Kärdla lines. The second question: 'Do you think that the European Union funds used to develop the airport have been used wisely? ' My answer is yes. Overall, European practice shows that cities with 100,000 inhabitants have their own airport and so in Tartu. This investment grant was granted with the aim of raising the category of Tartu Airport, i.e. creating technical conditions for the airport to be able to serve international flights as well. This objective has been met. The money has been used wisely. Of course, we are all interested in having enough demand for regular air routes in Tartu. Efforts should be made to do so. The third question is what I consider the perspectives of international research cooperation in Tartu as a research city, based on air traffic and transport conditions at all. National and international associations are undoubtedly important for international scientific cooperation. The cost-effectiveness of transport infrastructure investment projects is calculated on the basis not only of the financial return but also of socio-economic profitability, bearing in mind the impact on time, safety improvements, the living, business and natural environment and other factors that may be relevant to a given project. This means that international air links with Tartu can be profitable from a social point of view even if they do not generate profits for a particular airline. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that any subsidy granted by the State to air connections is strictly regulated by the European Union's State aid rules. In the form of an airport, there are all technical conditions for offering good air services in Tartu, and companies have shown interest in operating on Tartu routes. As far as national connections are concerned, the Ministry of Economic Affairs considers it reasonable to develop rail traffic alongside bus and coach traffic, as it allows the needs of other settlements to be taken into account in addition to Tartu. Due to the arrival of new passenger trains, we have planned both the compression of the connection and the increase in speeds. In the perspective, the train journey time of Tartu could be one hour and 45 minutes. Is it slow, Mr. Apple Tree? Finally, the good performance of the University of Tartu is very important. For this we must strive to ensure that Tartu is as well connected as possible to the rest of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U163	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U164	Minister, thank you for your answers. It's probably what's going on with Estonian Air. Nobody knows what's gonna happen in the end. But I've heard one of those news that you've repeatedly said so that the state could start buying flights. So where are the flights he's going to buy? What are the destinations? Could Tartu be a destination?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U165	We have talked about this as a possible option if the restructuring of Estonian Air is not possible if it does not meet the conditions set by the State. These conditions we have announced several times through the press are three basic conditions. In this case, it is really an option to start subsiding the necessary connections. However, this is very difficult because such subsidies must in no way distort the situation on the market. Each such line should receive acceptance from market surveillance at EU level in the case of an international route. The need for such routes will, of course, be determined by the State, which will have to carry out an in-depth demand study. In fact, there are quite few such routes in European aviation. In practice, such a thing would only be possible if we really were to be in a place where we could not fly anywhere. But if you go to Tallinn Airport, you will see dozens of destinations there, where you can also re-enter a lot of cities to fly. In other words, licences for international lines distorting the market by such subsidies must be applied for on a stand-alone and time-based basis. No complex flight programs! This is quite complicated in terms of the complexity of obtaining a State aid permit for the reorganisation of Estonian Air. But we cannot completely rule out this option.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U166	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U167	Mr. Minister! I also think that this cannot be ruled out. Tartu Airport has made quite a lot of investments in order to repair the building and track, to purchase this ILS, not to mention the Estonian Aviation Academy, which is located next to the runway and has also cost quite nicely. I think it's all great. But at the end of this week, if Estonian Air stops flying to Tartu with its Saabs, then Flybe will remain there. As long as he stays there, I don't think any of us can answer. The possible high-speed trains between Tallinn and Tartu are, of course, one solution, but have you not thought that the state or local government could subsidise Tartu's air routes because it is regionally important?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U168	We were just talking about rules concerning international air routes. I've been talking to Tartu activists about this. They're very nice people, they're not the kind of people who walk, nose down and whine. They are looking for solutions, and I have promised them that if they have any ideas, then an airport with a direct interest must work. The airport has to earn that investment back. If it's up to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we're definitely betting. But bet what? It is necessary to complete the relevant procedures for international air services. It is said that the interest is to fly from Tartu to Stockholm, there is also talk of Copenhagen. There is also an interest in flights between Tallinn and Tartu, but if we look at the number of passengers, we have had some experience with it. We can compare whether the Tartu air link is as important as the flights to Tallinn and Kursaare or Tallinn. I doubt it. However, I would not place Tartu on our island level. If so, we would soon include in regional policy how to get from downtown to Õismägi. It would not be regional political support, it would be other support. But come out with your proposal! Let's see what it really means, what we do. At the moment, we have very clear experience of subsidising air links with islands. This is, in a sense, a regional policy measure, because sometimes it is difficult to get to the islands. But make a suggestion, you can discuss what we are dealing with when we are talking about subsidising Tartu-Tallinn air service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U169	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U170	Dear Minister for Economic Affairs, On the previous question, Mr Tarmo Tamm said that it was going to be as it was going with Estonian Air, and we do not know how it is going. If it wasn't so sad, it would be funny. But today's news is that Estonian Air canceled four flights. One airline is the most harmful, and its customers are most frustrated when it starts to spread, that flights are not cancelled for technical reasons, but simply because at some point in time it is cheaper to cancel half-empty flights in terms of savings, it will be cheaper for the company. What can Estonian Air do to ensure that flights are no longer closed down? There are too many cancelled flights now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U171	As a shareholder representative in such cases, I always expect an adequate explanation for passengers and for the public at all. I have not been able to monitor today's media if Estonian Air has commented on this. But as a shareholder, I will certainly not interfere with the operational management of an airline. It is also prohibited because there are very strict rules under the management of an airline.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U172	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U173	Dear Minister, You said, as well as from the media, that Avies has expressed a wish to use the Tartu route. How far are you from these negotiations? Is that just a thought, or is it something real?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U174	I have it written in this memo, I can read it again: Avies has shown interest in operating the Tartu route. But I don't negotiate like that. Such negotiations should be held by Avies with his potential passengers, and I am thinking about the matter at the moment. The company should examine the demand and, of course, conclude all necessary contracts with Tartu Airport, which is a structural unit of Tallinn Airport AS. Tallinn Airport AS is an active party from the point of view of the state, as for them, each flight is profitable. It's their job as a company.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U175	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U176	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this topic cannot be approached so easily, because Tartu is a very important regional political centre for all of South-East Estonia. Tartu is a research city ♪ We take the University of Tartu Hospital ♪ ♪ We take the Otepää Ski Centre. We honestly admit that the road we have to take in the winter between Tallinn and Tartu is not likely to attract visitors, researchers and other important people. Nothing calls for this road, let alone the railroad. We hope that there will be a positive change on the railroad in the near future. Certainly Tartu is important for regional policy and I think that the state should not passively watch air traffic disappear there. I do not know whether the country should subsidise this route or how to solve this problem, but it is certainly important for Tartu and the whole of South-East Estonia to be able to fly easily and safely from Tartu. As long as you are not ready for a good Tallinn road or a guaranteed decent railway connection, many people will not visit Tartu. I hope that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications will discuss with the people of Tartu how air traffic can be maintained and maintain such a level that flyers are satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U177	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. All enquiries to Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts have been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U178	The following is an inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu by Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendiev, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Mailis Repsi on 14 November 2012 for the target protection zone of the Haanja Nature Park Tallikõsõ (No 210). On behalf of the heirs, I ask for a speech chair in Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U179	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, this time 12 people, have already addressed you several times with questions that have reached us from people living in the territory of Haanja Nature Park and possessing real estate and land. We are deeply concerned about how far the Tallikõõõi target protection zone has been established. The troubles are the same. The creation of a target protection zone is likely to save nature, but it is quite devastating for a viable village, and I would say that it will also slow down tourism, because the area is located at the foot of Suur Munamägi. Economic activity would be achieved, especially in relation to forest areas. There is nothing to do, let us turn again to the Minister and ask for an answer. This time there are six questions, and we hope to get answers to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U180	Thank you very much. I'm asking the speech chair to respond to the Environment Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimanud!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear members of the Riigikogu, heirs! Indeed, some questions of inquiry have already been put forward in almost the same wording and have been answered some time ago. But it's okay, let's get back to you. I will answer by question, and since you did not read the questions yourself, I will also read them. The first question of the heirs is: 'What is the state of creation of the target protection zone of Tallikõõõ? ' As you know, management plans and other acts concerning nature reserves are currently largely behind the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act currently pending in the Riigikogu, if you could say so. If I am not mistaken, the draft Nature Conservation Act, which you are discussing in this Chamber, should soon reach a second reading before you. You are probably aware that the amendment to the Nature Conservation Act relates to the judgment of the Supreme Court at the end of May 2011. Consequently, it is necessary to clarify the Nature Conservation Act and to lay down more specific requirements as regards the assumptions of the protected area, to lay down more specifically which reasons must be stated and what is the possibility for people to participate in the entire process of granting protection and to defend their interests. A provision is included in the Nature Conservation Act which states that if more than two years have passed since the public display, or if circumstances have changed during the proceedings, there is an obligation to hold a new public display and, where appropriate, a new public consultation. This provision has also been introduced with the aim of better protecting the fundamental rights of individuals and avoiding surprising decisions in the procedure for granting protection. The Haanja Nature Park and its conservation code are one of the ones for which the same new public exhibition has to be organised and must take place between the second half of December this year and the second half of January 2013. There will certainly be a public consultation in addition to the public display. It will remain the same at the end of January next year, which is about a month from now. Following the closure of the public display and the reply to the views expressed in writing, it is possible to proceed again with the process and procedure for the approval of the protection rule. The second question: 'What is the feedback from local residents on the creation of the Tallikõõõ target protection zone? There are many kinds of feedback. Nor do local residents agree on the creation of the Tallikõõi target protection zone. As you know, just over 490 hectares, i.e. about 40% of the planned Tallikõõõi target protection zone is located in private land. The rest is located either on state land or on land that continues to be state-owned. An agreement has been concluded with some 50 landowners, while four landowners continue to disagree. On 7 June this year, a meeting of the residents of Haanja rural municipality took place in Haanja community building, where not only landowners but also other residents of the region formulated their position and made a request not to extend the target protection zones of the protected area to private countries. The specific information on how many of those who join this demand are residents of this region is unknown to us, we have not checked it. But yes, of about 493 hectares, there is an agreement for 457 hectares. So with regard to most territory, the residents have believed that the establishment of a target zone is reasonable and necessary. The third question: 'What compromise have you offered to landowners interested in economic activity in connection with the creation of a target protection zone in Haanja Nature Park? ' A great deal has been sought and proposed during this process and a solution has indeed been sought to ensure both the preservation of values in this area and the continuation of landowners' activities and land use. Where it has been possible to take the opinion of landowners into account, it has indeed been done and to find the compromise that has been tried as much as possible. The delineation of the target protection zones has taken into account the property owner's desire to use its forest land, and the zoning has been sought without any landowner, a forest owner whose forest would remain in the target protection zone at 100%. And if there has been a situation where not all the proposals of all owners could be taken into account purely for the reason that it is important to ensure the preservation of natural values, the landowners have been informed about the compensatory opportunities that the strengthening of the system of protection entails. It is probably known to you, but just in terms of repetition, there is a land tax advantage in protected areas, which is 100% in the target zone and 50% in the restricted zone, where there is no such heated debate. In addition, forest owners in Natura 2000 network areas will receive a Natura forest payment of EUR 110 per hectare in the target protection zone and EUR 60 per hectare in the restricted zone from 2008. Question 4: Is it possible to maintain Haanja as a tourist area by creating a destination protection zone? ' The expansion of the target protection zone certainly serves this purpose, namely to improve the state of Haanja Nature Park's natural value. And if you look for reasons and opportunities to develop nature tourism, the existence, preservation and contribution of these same natural values will help, not the other way around. So the existence of natural values is, in any case, a positive feature of tourism, if you put it this way. Question 5: "What do you think is a fair compensation for a landowner whose land remains in the area of the proposed destination zone? ' I have also answered the question before you in Question Time about the amount of aid and expressed the view that the current rate of aid, which is EUR 110 per hectare for the target zone, is not sufficient. Our proposal is to increase the aid rate in the forest area of the target protection zone to EUR 150 per hectare. Question 6: "Do you think that new target zones could be considered only with the consent of the owners? ' Demarcation and zoning of protected areas are generally based on the principle that the state's commitments to natural values must be met preferably in state countries and, in any case, in the case of restrictions, we are interested in reaching an agreement with landowners. I cannot agree that targeted protection zones could not be extended to private land at all or that nature conservation could not be developed in private land at all. If it is a precious natural value, regardless of which land it is on, it must be protected. Indeed, values can only be protected where they actually occur. There is certainly no way to move them to one place or another depending on the ownership of the land. Thank you. I will be happy to answer any further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U182	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Speaker. Congratulations to me too!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U184	Congratulations to you too!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U185	Thank you, too, for giving the Minister another answer on this matter. Actually, we were still hoping to find out more, but now it turns out a new exhibit is opening. So much time has gone by and people have been concerned enough about this issue. But you mentioned that, in your opinion, the appropriate compensation for the owner for a hectare of land covered by nature conservation is up to EUR 150. Where did this figure come from, have you done any research? Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U186	Thank you. For example, Latvia and Lithuania have been compared with rates of support, but they are not quite one-to-one transferable. I didn't realize you were asking about the practice of other countries, which is why I don't have those bills with me. In countries with similar constraints, our southern neighbours have somewhat higher subsidy rates. But I guess that's finally the conventional thing and the decision-making point, where exactly the limit is, is it just 150? Of course, financial opportunities must be taken into account. There are certainly owners who continue to consider that EUR 150 is not enough to compensate for all loss of income. It's still partial compensation. In the case of such grants, there is always a question mark where to draw the border exactly. This 150 euros is an estimated proposal, a real cent of the mathematical formula can't be back there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U187	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U188	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. First of all, congratulations on your election to the presidency. Minister of the Environment! If you subtract 493 hectares from 457 hectares, for which there is coordination, only 36 hectares will be left. My question is this: is there also the possibility that if there is no agreement, this part will be excluded from the target protection zone?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U189	Did you propose or ask a question? If that was a question, then the proposal on borders has still been considered and is based on where real natural values are located. Let me give you an example from another area. The Tuhala witch well is located in private land and it is a protected object. I don't think we can imagine that since he's in private land, the owner decides at some point that he's just gonna give up on this value. If it is of value, it must be protected where it is, and land ownership alone cannot serve as a basis for deciding that we are not defending that value. So if this is your proposal, you will certainly have the opportunity to present this proposal in a new public debate, but from a natural value point of view, we cannot apply such restrictive and subjective criteria.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U190	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U191	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I'm gonna take this opportunity and ask you a little bit more generally. We had a pretty good land exchange system here some time ago, where land under nature conservation could be traded for normal land on which to manage. I admit I missed that train. My own father farm also lives in the wild, and I cannot go there even at a certain time of the year, but it is an adult forest. When will the state seriously consider the possibility that it will take on the natural injustice of private property and that it will be able to manage its property calmly? After all, the country has plenty of land and plenty! I believe that such a restriction on the back of a private person is relatively unfair because, since this land was outside the Natura site, there is not even a compensation for land tax, but at the same time I must do nothing. When could such a situation end?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U192	Thank you. Without knowing the details, I can't comment on your particular case, I don't know what exactly that chronological line of protection was. But speaking in general, for example, our northern neighbour, Finland, has chosen the path that basically all the land under nature conservation belongs to the state, which means that the state has bought out the land under nature conservation from its owners. In our case, I consider it reasonable, right and fair that, if a private owner has acquired a piece of land with a residential, land-based or whatever function, where there is no conservation restriction, and he has not been able to be aware that there is some natural value in that land, but after the purchase of the land, it turns out that there is some very unique natural value, so that his right to property is restricted, it is still justified that the state buys out this land. The amendment of the law on nature conservation, which is once again under parliamentary procedure, sets out, among other things, clearer limits in this regard. If the land owner has already purchased land that is restricted, i.e. he has bought a piece of land under conservation, fully aware that there are restrictions that he cannot build or forest there, then it is not justified to impose such a burden on the taxpayer, thus forcing the taxpayer to buy this land further. If the restrictions are imposed afterwards and the holder's right to use his property is subsequently restricted, it is reasonable and fair to maintain the obligation to buy out. Specifically, the case you described, I cannot comment because I am not familiar with the details.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U193	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U194	I'm now taking this opportunity to congratulate you from this remote control!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U195	Thank you, Keit! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? It's a wish! I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U196	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will not take too long, but I would like to use the motto here, because this issue is under discussion. We live alone on a general basis and my very specific question to the Minister for the Environment was motivated by a personal tragedy. But there are probably such tragedies in Estonia. You see, 20 years of independent Estonia has been a tough time, because we have had to build a normal society in a very short time. In the case of natural conservation restrictions, we cannot say exactly the same thing that everything would always have been done prudently, honestly and frankly. I assure you that a particular personal tragedy has to do with the fact that when Natura sites were formed in Lääne County, where my father's farm is located, they were put together at no cost and the land unit I am talking about was outside Natura. At the same time, it is a first-class storage forest, if I am not fooled by memory, the restriction is very clear - this is the forest area. Let's just say that years of trying to do something about this country have not produced any results. And I think that since Estonia is a corporate society, I am even in the preferred position in this sense that I feel or have known all the decision-makers over the years. True, the present Minister for the Environment is certainly clean of this sin. I have not discussed this with him, but with previous environmental ministers. Another particular reason why I came to this remote control is that I have been able to prepare for the great Spring Storm in many years. If we take a map of the area to accommodate such a large exercise in a region and start to mark the layers of environmental restrictions on the map, I assure you that, from the point of view of nature conservation restrictions, Estonia is currently in a situation where it is not possible to dig a cannon into the ground. This is for the simple reason that one cannon battery assumes that there would be a plot of land of a certain size, but it is not practically possible to find it in Estonia. And then there goes the endless sequence of coordination, agreement and whatever. I think we should set ourselves the task of going through what we're doing. Let me give you a simple example. In the case of an old manor building belonging to me, the state also has a right of pre-emption. When I began to wonder if the right of preemption was the result of the heritage-protected restrictions, it turned out that there was a sacrificial stone inside the foundation of the Eesti Energia substation on my site, where the ancestors offered sacrifices. As a result, the state always has the right to preempt, if I wanted to make a deal with this house, buy it. During my rather long business career, I have not had any real estate transactions where there would be no collection ditch restrictions and consequently a state preference. I believe that the situation is abnormal if the country has a right of pre-emption all the time, which it does not actually use. But if you want the state to prefer to buy something from you and give you a chance to buy something like this instead, then we don't have a mechanism like that. I admit honestly and directly that these restrictions and this whole system are one of the big porridge and cabbages, and the people - the citizens for whom the country really is - are in trouble. However, we should find a clearer set of rules in this area so that any restrictions do not offend people's sense of justice and give them the opportunity to be happy in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U197	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. That's the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U198	Let's move on to the next question, the number 238 and the subject of fishing nets. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, responds to the inquiry. I ask the Riigikogu to introduce Kadri Samson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Seven members of the Riigikogu have also signed this inquiry, including Aivar Riisalu, who is still helping where citizens are concerned. This inquiry concerns honest fishermen who comply with the rules and respect the catch limits imposed. They are concerned that there are also fishermen who violate the established rules and that the violation is relatively beneficial because, unlike neighbouring countries, Estonia is allowed to sell and use so-called Chinese fishing nets for fishing. These are low-quality low-cost nets used by unauthorized predators as well as professional fishermen who catch less than or more than permitted traps. As Chinese fishing nets are cheap, the financial risk for those who transcend the ban is several times lower than for those who catch expensive and high-quality nets. If there is a risk of being caught, the cheap nets will simply be left in the sea and released before the inspection arrives. But the nets that have remained in the sea will not fall apart, they will remain floating in the sea and often catch fish in so-called floating waters, thus harming fish stocks for a very long time. That is why these networks are banned in neighbouring countries. Fishermen estimate that at least 30 to 40% of the nets can remain at sea. Enn Keeman, Chief Inspector of the Western Region of the Environmental Inspectorate, has said in an interview with Maaleht that about a thousand gill nets are taken out of the sea bordering Pärnu County alone a year, and most of them are of Chinese origin. So this issue concerns all fishermen who follow the rules, and one simple solution is to see more serious dealing with cheap nets. The Minister has been asked five questions that I am not going to read out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U200	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! The first question is this: "Are you familiar with the problem of poor and environmentally hostile fishing nets? ' We are aware and aware that so-called Chinese networks, as you call them in your inquiry, are being sold and used in Estonia. The Chinese networks are called cheap nets made of very weak and simple material, and experts say that they have been used in Estonia since the beginning of the 2000s. The price is really low, and this is the specificity of these networks, but also the efficiency of fishing, which is probably one of the reasons why the so-called Chinese nets are very widely used by fishermen. According to our data, both professional fishermen and amateur fishermen are actively using these networks, because it is true that if they are handled "beautiful" or "beautiful" with them, it is possible to catch them for a long time, and because the price is cheap, to do so quite cost-effectively. Of course, it is known that leaving networks in water bodies could be an environmental problem. When the inspection has gone to pick up these nets and, unfortunately, has always returned with quite a lot of catch, it has received quite a lot of public attention. The second question: 'Why, like neighbouring countries, is it not prohibited in Estonia to use cheap gill nets of very low quality made in China for fishing? ' I must say that we checked and asked our colleagues. You argued in the introduction to your inquiry that low-quality low-cost networks made in China are banned in neighbouring countries. According to our data, the use of gillnets in Finland, Sweden and Latvia is not prohibited due to their quality or cheap price. Maybe you can elaborate on that later. Of course, this issue has been discussed more than once, and you obviously agree that it would be very, very difficult, unfortunately, to define, and to allow or prohibit, purely by price, cheap networks. To ban trading from being a cheap net is obviously neither practical nor practical. It would be difficult to justify the basis of such a ban if the problem is not the price of the network or whether it was produced in China or elsewhere, but the kidnappers. These so-called cheap nets, as I said, are used by both professional and recreational fishermen. By simply prohibiting use by price, this would simply lead to an unnecessary increase in expenditure. Question number three: How does your ministry plan to resolve the situation? What have you been able to do about it? ' We have considered it reasonable not to go this way, to define cheap nets and to impose sanctions that, unfortunately, would probably unduly affect the same honest fishermen you mentioned. However, the focus is very clearly on better planning of control activities, improving efficiency, as the problem is primarily the catching of robbery, not the catching of cheap nets or Chinese-produced networks. The focus is on the ability of the Environmental Inspectorate to be at a good level. If you ask what has already been done in this regard, the focus of the Environmental Inspectorate is, above all, what needs to be done and what will be done. Question 4: "How will honest fishermen be protected from unauthorized predators in the future? ' Environmental inspections need to be stepped up as much as possible and, of course, not only do inspectors play an important role in monitoring, but it is also important that honest fishermen and amateur fishermen themselves report infringements to the Environmental Inspectorate. A short number is known to all, in 1313. This would mean that there would be a significant increase in monitoring eyeballs. After all, the fishermen who move around the water bodies every day know best when and how the predators operate, and their reports, as experience has shown, are the most valuable. This cooperation and exchange of information between fishermen, the inspection and the ministry has generally gone on and on in previous years, but of course cooperation can and must be made even more effective. Because, as you said in the introduction to your inquiry, the kidnappers not only damage the reputation of honest fishermen but also do real damage. Question 5: 'What is the budget of the Environmental Inspectorate? Is there sufficient budgetary resources for the Environmental Inspectorate to fight the kidnappers? 'The budget is 5.5 million euros, out of which fish protection is covered by this estimate, an estimated amount of 1.5 million euros. About a million of this will go to labour costs and half a million to monitor economic costs. In addition, the Environmental Inspectorate has received support from the Environmental Investment Centre (Environmental Investment Centre) of around 400000 million euros a year, or 0.4 million euros. The question of whether budget resources are sufficient is always a trick question. I don't know any supervisory authorities that say there's enough money. There is always more to be done if there is more money than there is now. In view of the fact that in Estonia, it is estimated that several hundred thousand people are exposed to recreational fishing in one way or another and that around 2 000 people are involved in professional fishing on a daily basis, it can of course be said that the supervisory budget could also be much higher. However, it is important that the instruments that are being used are used efficiently so that controls and monitoring, in cooperation with honest fishermen, are maximum under the current circumstances. That's it for now. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U202	Thank you, Minister. You have at least one question. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U203	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Those fishermen who are at sea every day because of their work say that controls cannot be very effective. There are cheap nets for sale, whose eye size is smaller than that allowed in Estonia, and those who knowingly buy such networks also know that the financial loss is not very great if they drown these nets as they approach control. Should control not extend to merchants, so that such networks should not be sold in Estonia? I mean not only the price, but also the size of the eye. Should these nets not only be controlled at sea but also on a commercial network?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U204	Thank you. That's one way to regulate it. There are other proposals. For example, the possibility of making the chip of networks mandatory has been discussed for a long time in order to allow better monitoring. Similarly, the Environmental Inspectorate has proposed to the Ministry of Agriculture that the coordinates of fixed fishing gear be indicated. If there were an obligation to indicate the coordinates in the logbook, this would again allow for more effective control and more precise identification of the position of the fishing gear. So there really are alternatives. Of course, there is one way of regulating which network is allowed to be sold. But once again, the inspectors actually control the catches at sea. This would also mean introducing a whole new branch for inspection and inspection. I think it makes sense to make the current conditions for predatory and catch control so precise that controls become more effective. But, yeah, what you brought out here is one way to think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U205	Minister, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U206	Let's move on to the next question, which is about the implementation of the Hunting Act and bears the number 239. The inquiry has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Karel Rüütli, Rein Randver, Jaan Õunapuu, Heljo Pikhof, Mart Meri, Rannar Vassijev, Priit Toobal, Ester Tuiksoo, Valeri Korb, Mailis Reps, Lembit Kaljuvee, Aivar Riisalu, Rainer Vakra, Kajar Lember, Neeme Suur, Indrek Saar, Helmen Küttt and Jüri Ratas on 15 November 2012. I ask the representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu to introduce the questioning of the speech chair Karel Rüütli!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Eighteen members of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry into the implementation of the Hunting Act. In particular, the Minister of the Environment must be guided by the provisions 4 and 6 of the Hunting Act adopted by the Riigikogu on 24 April 2002 which entered into force on 1 March 2003. The Ministry of the Environment has had ten years to deal with the creation of regions and the organisation of hunting grounds in accordance with the requirements of the Hunting Act. The time limit is laid down in § 65 of the Hunting Act, which sets out the special case of the entry into force of the Act: the Minister of the Environment forms hunting areas and organises the organisation of hunting ground in accordance with the requirements of this Act within ten years of the entry into force of the Act. Consequently, hunting areas complying with the requirements of the Hunting Act must be established and the hunting grounds organised by 1 March 2013 at the latest. The organisation of hunting grounds is governed in more detail by § 4 of the Hunting Act. The organisation of hunting grounds shall take place at least every 10 years and shall take the form of a plan for the management of hunting grounds, approved by the Minister for the Environment. The approved hunting ground management plan is in turn the basis for the establishment of a hunting area, its size and the establishment of a border description. In addition to the above, subsections 6 (3) (1) and 6 (4) of the Hunting Act set out a number of important conditions which the Minister for the Environment must monitor, inter alia, when establishing a hunting area. The most important of these are the boundaries recognised in nature, which are precisely verifiable when comparing the border description and map with the one that exists in nature. There are 64 problem hunting areas in total. There are 12 problem areas in Jõgeva County that can disappear after 1 March 2013, four out of 19, ten in Järva County, 12 out of 15 in Lääne County, 18 out of 21 in Valgamaa and 20 in Viljandi County. As the deadline is coming, there is a real danger that these regions will disappear. This means that a very large number of hunters may be excluded from the hunt, which lose the 'opportunity for action'. In addition, if these hunting lease areas are not formed, the total financial loss to the State could be around EUR 105000. Consequently, we have a number of questions for the Minister for the Environment to which we are asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U208	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U209	Good manager! Honourable interviewers! There is no risk that the regions will disappear, and there is no risk that there will be a situation where there will be no users in the hunting areas. I think, as most of the inquisitors know quite well, there was a new hunting law at the Ministry of the Environment in preparation for a long time, which has now been submitted to the government. It was my wish that this would reach the first reading of the Parliamentary Chamber within this year's number, but since you were very much involved in the debate on matters relating to the state budget, I have not yet started to burden you with such a fundamental question as the new hunting law. I will answer your questions as follows: I'm also going to read the questions because you didn't do it yourself. The first question: 'The Ministry abolished the Hunting Land Management Department in December 2009. 21.05.2009 Parliament approved amendments to the Hunting Act, which state that the organisation of hunting grounds is the responsibility of the state (Article 21 (1) of the Hunting Act). Who is responsible in the Ministry of the Environment for the organisation of hunting grounds in accordance with the requirements of the law? ' As the heirs certainly know and remember, the budget of all ministries was significantly reduced in the preparation of the 2010 state budget, and the ministries were therefore obliged to reorganize their day-to-day operation. The structure of the departments was also reviewed. At the time, the Ministry of the Environment made such an amendment that there was really no separate department for hunting land management, but for the works related to hunting topics, the Forest Department is responsible for the hunting law at the Environmental Information Centre and the Ministry of the Environment. At that time it was already, I dare not say, in full swing, but in any case began the preparation of the new hunting law. The issue of the organisation of the hunting grounds concerned by your inquiry was one of the first topics that were discussed in the circle where the interest groups were at the table in this key to how the new Hunting Act should be organised. Since it was found that the new law should maintain existing hunting areas, which are now explicitly and unambiguously set out in the draft, no intermediate bureaucratic approach was considered reasonable. The following question: '11.04.2011 was transferred to the Environmental Board 9 hunting plans for the Western Region (in connection with the integration of protected areas with hunting areas), which were forwarded to the Ministry in autumn of the same year. This year, 07.11.2012 the last 3 hunting plans for Läänemaa were forwarded to the Environmental Board. Essentially, all problem areas of Läänemaa hunting are in the ministry, some for nearly 1.5 years. For what reason have no hunting plans for Läänemaa been approved by the Ministry? ' The reason is again what I have already explained and what you know: a new draft Hunting Act has been prepared, which sets out the regulation of the boundaries of the hunting area and which does not provide for the approval of the hunting ground management plans. The regulation of the current law makes it possible to hunt both in the area of hunting issued and to limit the number of game in the protected area. As the new Hunting Act also lays down rules on the boundaries of the hunting area, which take more account of the views of both the users and landowners of the hunting area, it was not considered appropriate to impose such an intermediate rapid change of borders. Next question: '2009. In 2001, Viljandi County Manager, where the number of problem rental hunting areas is highest, approached the Minister of the Environment with an inquiry 07.10.2009 No 10-10/1280. In his reply letter of 16.11.2009 No 15-2/13495-2, the Minister for the Environment promises to the county governor that the Hunting Land Order will be completed in the first half of 2010. Why is this promise still unfulfilled? ' Again: since the new draft Hunting Act was being prepared, it was not considered appropriate in the meantime to make additional bureaucratic decisions on things that would be a completely different solution in the new Law. And I think it's been a sensible approach. Next question: 'At the moment, there are no hunting plans yet for 51 rental hunting areas that have not been re-registered as hunting areas due to the failure of the Ministry. If the Ministry had not eliminated the Hunting Land Management Department, the whole of the Republic's hunting grounds would have been completed this year and the circle would have been completed. What about these rental hunting areas? ' According to the new draft Hunting Act, rental hunting areas are considered hunting areas; there is no distinction. Perhaps those rental hunting areas formed under the pre-arrival hunting law will be regarded as hunting areas in the same way under the new Hunting Act. The last question: 'Who in the Ministry's leadership is responsible for the failure of the Minister of the Environment to comply with the Hunting Act? ' Of course, no one but the Minister can be responsible for the Minister's activities in the ministry's administration. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are making a plea in your question that is not correct. The boundaries of all hunting areas are still described, and the regions have users. So all hunting grounds are organized in the Republic of Estonia. And I really consider it reasonable, as Karel Rüütel, who introduced the inquiry, well knows, that Parliament would adopt a new draft Hunting Act, which has probably been done longer than the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia was, eventually, in the process and the rules would be in place. Then the constant speculations would clear up the thick air in the hunting areas, and everyone would once again be able to see for themselves that, according to the new draft, all existing hunting areas will be preserved as they are. There will be no new and very fundamental change in heel, and it is indeed a draft law in which the interests of both users and landowners are more taken into account in the regions than is the case today. So I hope that you will soon have the opportunity to debate a specific draft in this Chamber. But now I will answer all the questions that seem to be at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U210	Minister, thank you. Really, there are questions! Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U211	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that you would have liked to come to the Riigikogu with a new draft Hunting Act already this year, but since the Riigikogu discussed the budget so thoroughly, you did not want to interfere. At the same time, on the coordination round of this draft, which was already in September, the Ministry of Agriculture did not approve, and now it is news that last week the Ministry of Agriculture did not approve the draft. Are you ready to come to the Riigikogu with the draft without the Ministry of Agriculture, which is closely involved in this area, being satisfied with the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U212	No, absolutely not. The amendments tabled by the Ministry of Agriculture in September have all been incorporated into the draft and, as with the government, if in the meantime one or the other ministry has raised new questions that need to be answered, or there are new proposals that need to be introduced, this work must be done. There is nothing out of the ordinary about the proposal drawn up under the administration of the other ministry, and it is still the case with the drafts that are to be debated. Sometimes there are questions that have simply not been answered or have not been able to read the answer in, for example, the explanatory memorandum. These explanations must all be given; this is a perfectly natural process of drafting a bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U213	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U214	Thank you. Good minister! I, of course, acknowledge your efforts to complete the new hunting law, and, figuratively speaking, you are here today as if you were guilty of what previous ministers have passed on to you, and the Ministry is accused of what previous ministers have failed to do. The Hunting Act states very clearly that the organization of hunting grounds is a ministry's responsibility. In the same way, there is no word in the hunting development plan that the hunting ground has to be stopped. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, who was today in the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, said that in 2009 it was decided to stop organising hunting grounds in the Ministry of the Environment, because it is no longer necessary. This is also the reason why the 12 hunting plans for Läänemaa have not been signed, some of which, as was mentioned earlier, have been in the ministry for a year and a half. My question is, how is it possible for ministerial officials to decide that hunting ground arrangements are no longer needed and to put the whole ministry and minister in an extremely poor position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U215	Thank you. First, you've hurt quite a few people. My predecessors had a very large part of my work on hunting law. This work has indeed been going on for a long time and has perhaps been somewhat more passionate than in several other drafts. It is certainly not correct for ministerial officials to blame for what you have just accused here. Once again: in the Republic of Estonia, all hunting grounds have been arranged, borders have been described, and users also exist. So to create such an idea that the boundaries of the hunting grounds are not described, that there are no users, it is simply not correct. The reason why we are now, when only a few days have, hopefully, left before the new Hunting Act Parliament, and the debate on this should go on here soon, does not follow the old law and will not approve the hunting land management plans, is that this intermediate bureaucratic procedure is not very rational. The new Hunting Act lays down and approves all existing hunting areas. Unless all hunters agree differently between themselves as border neighbours, the borders will be maintained as they are today. That's why I don't just think it's reasonable to create this kind of in-between mess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U216	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U217	Thank you. Madam Minister! We discussed this issue today in the Committee on the Environment, where the round of questions and answers took more than an hour. We realized that really, the more we asked, the more questions came up. The main reason the law didn't get here in four years was because there were hunters on one side, landowners on the other side. For four years no compromise was reached between them. Now maybe there'll be a new law. My question is this: how do you feel that there will be no conflict between them now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U218	Thank you. Certainly, among forest owners, landowners and hunters, there are those who would like to have a more sandy bill from their point of view. The new hunting law is a compromise. In turn, compromise means that neither party can get the perfect solution for itself. So the committees and political groups of Parliament will have the opportunity to invite both parties who have really contributed very much to the draft to explain their views, to hear them out. Then each political group, each committee, can also decide whether the proposed compromise is the best or whether you will be able to find an even better compromise. If a better compromise is found in Parliament, I am only pleased about that. But this bill has indeed been written in section by section and there have been representatives of hunters and forest owners at the table. I dare say that the opportunity to make a more perfect, more advanced version of the ministry, in which both sides would agree with what was proposed, somehow sand down another corner or make the draft even more ideal, I do not see at the moment. This work has been thorough and quite tense, and the draft that we submitted to the government could really be acceptable to both parties in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U219	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U220	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I'm going to ask you a more general question. Hunting law has been done for many, many years. Let's just say passions are very, very hot. On the subject that we discussed together earlier, I argued that the state of nature conservation restrictions in Estonia is sometimes unreasonable. Recently, a citizen's concern came to me as a result of a study carried out on behalf of a private company that has moved butterflies from the northeast corner of the island to the southwest corner, strangely over the last year, diagonaling over the other location of the peninsula. I wonder if today's notice of arrest in the Environmental Inspectorate has anything to do with such processes? My question is this: how do you assess the situation in the Ministry of the Environment and the capacity of the Ministry to provide a normal living environment for Estonian companies and people so that nature conservation does not stifle them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U221	I thought you were accusing the hunters of moving butterflies from one area to another. That would have been a completely unfair accusation against hunters. There are a lot of people committed to their work at the Ministry of the Environment who are set to preserve Estonian nature, and I think they have done well with this work. It is probably quite inevitable that there are often conflict situations in the work of nature's protectors and keepers, where they are accused of holding too much nature and thus hindering, for example, the functioning of one undertaking or another. This is the art of finding compromises, i.e. the ability to explain to some entrepreneurs why it is equally important for them and for them that Estonian nature is preserved. I don't like this confrontation at all. I think that those entrepreneurs who consider the living environment of their people to be important, that the environment is as clean and well maintained as possible, are equally able to assess the good state of Estonian nature. So if the question was whether I believe the employees of the Ministry of the Environment will be able to do their job, then I think they will do this work with a great deal of commitment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U222	Minister, thank you for your answers. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask Karel Rüütel for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U223	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, hunting has caused a great deal of passion, especially in the last four years, and the parties have sought a compromise. Of course, the truth must be acknowledged that the parties have moved much closer to each other. There are some fundamental issues left in the air where consensus has not been reached, but progress is, in any case, quite significant. I just want to stress that there is currently a Hunting Act in force in Estonia, which was adopted on 1 March 2003, and this Hunting Act says very clearly: in ten years all hunting areas must be organised. The fact that the Ministry has at one point withdrawn from it and said that they are not fulfilling this objective, that is not their priority, essentially means that all hunting activities are lost in 64 rental areas. Yes, this problem could indeed be solved if the new hunting law was adopted, but these hunting grounds still need to be reorganized. This was confirmed today in the Committee on the Environment by the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry. My concern lies in what happens if, at some point, this draft Hunting Act does not come to the Riigikogu. This has been done for four years, but if you look at the last round of coordination, for example, the Ministry of Finance has also raised some serious questions and said that as long as their proposals have not been introduced into hunting law, they will not give coordination. There has also been little coordination from many other ministries. Thus, Estonia currently has a hunting law and a hunting development plan, which say that rental hunting areas need to be organised. Therefore, it is not possible for the officials of the Ministry of the Environment to say that organising hunting grounds for them is no longer a priority. It has raised questions, it has upset many hunters, and 64 hunting areas are now in this fight or struggle those who are actually suffering because an agreement has not been reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U224	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U225	We will move on to the next question that Riigikogu members Kadri Simson, Ester Tuiksoo, Aadu Must, Kalle Laane and Annely Akkermann presented on 15 November 2012. The inquiry, which bears the number 241, is once again a matter of recreational fishers from the fishing industry. Please introduce Kadri Simson, representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu's speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is time to move back from the hunters to the fishermen. The inquiry is motivated by the concern of the fishermen who are legally operating in Estonia that Latvian recreational fishermen are often present in both the Gulf of Pärnu and Lake Peipsi, who are engaged in robbery and fraud. This does not mean that all Latvian recreational fishermen are like this, but unfortunately, a few robbers are enough to displease our fishermen. According to local fishermen, various schemes are used to generate tax-free income. This problem has also been highlighted in the press. In Pärnu Postimees, for example, it was written how environmental inspectors captured the citizens of the Republic of Latvia in Tahkuranna, whose vans contained hundreds of kilograms of undersized bass, which accounted for 80% of the nature. Alas, such a case is not unique. This indicates that fishing standards and rules are not being respected. In addition, the problem is that, as we know, recreational fishermen are not allowed to sell their catches in Estonia, but local fishermen say that there are many cases where recreational fishermen from the south sell their fish. This is the way in which professional recreational fishing has developed. It is considered that the current situation seriously undermines the already critical stock in the Gulf of Pärnu. The illegal trade also worsens the situation of local professional fishermen and reduces their income. It is said that the Estonian state is not in a position to demand the full amount of the fines imposed on the citizens of the Republic of Latvia, and that is why they are not very afraid of fines. On the situation described, we have six questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U227	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U228	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! The first question: 'How much has the Ministry of the Environment been exposed to the problem described? ' The problem was described by Kadri Simson in his introduction, and I am not going to repeat that again. The answer is, of course, we are aware of the problem and have come into contact with it. We are also aware that there are a lot of recreational fishermen living in the Republic of Latvia on our waters during winter. One person who spoke to me on this subject suggested looking at the positive side of the matter and saying that it is in itself great that the Latvian people, our neighbours, want to go fishing on our watercourses, it is good to catch here. But, of course, it is not so unambiguously just a happy aspect of the matter. It is certainly not justified to make recreational fishing an independent source of living and to break the rules of fishing, whether it is citizens of our own country or fishers from other countries. As a result, we are forbidden to sell and buy fish from recreational fishing, with minimum sizes for fish caught. These rules must be observed. Recreational fishing is still a hobby, which also gives the catcher the opportunity to add to his food table. But, of course, both the supervisory inspectorate and the ministry are aware of cases where fish caught in recreational fisheries are allegedly still sold and purchased. It is true that proof of this is complex, especially when, as the inquisitor pointed out, it takes place across borders. I am slightly adjusting that it is certainly not justified to state as a fact that the offenders are mainly foreigners, not Estonian residents. There are certainly more violations by amateurs who are residents of Estonia, because there are just more of them themselves, and the violation of the rules is not so much a nationalist as a particular person. Most recreational fishermen are more likely to follow established rules and not think of the possibility that recreational fishing should become an independent earner or a livelihood. It is simply a border that must always be crossed when we talk about those who break the rules, so that all recreational fishermen do not feel touched or badly in any way. The second question: 'What steps can the Ministry of the Environment take to put an end to this illegal activity? ' The Environmental Inspectorate had a couple of questions back here for a long time. Compliance with fishing rules is also monitored by the Environmental Inspectorate. As we are talking about ice fishing, the monitoring of recreational fishing in winter is much easier purely technical. All fishermen are simply more noticeable and there are not many ways to hide their catches. So, if we ask whether there is still any need for monitoring methods to be put in place to detect infringements of the catch rules, then, above all, it is precisely regular checks that are important. As regards the sale of fish caught in recreational fisheries, it is certainly more difficult for monitoring, as I said earlier, to do so. According to expert experts, persons authorised to fish for professional purposes are also often involved in this process and through them it is possible to systematically channel fish caught in recreational fisheries into the industry, i.e. in legal language it can be legalised in the sales chain. One option that has been discussed and considered is to improve the transparency of the chain of first buying-in of fresh fish by extending the obligation of prior notification from commercial fishing to port, as an example of Lake Peipsi. On the page this obligation already applies, it is considered whether to extend it across Estonia. This would make it possible to verify during the monitoring process whether the fish sold have been caught in commercial fisheries or whether the catch is fictitiously recorded in the catch and sales documents, and whether the fish comes into the distribution chain via other channels. This is one of the ways that is currently being considered to make monitoring more effective. The Environmental Inspectorate has set up a separate working group to enhance fisheries-related control, which, in addition to the sector itself, is composed of representatives of scientific bodies and supervisory bodies such as the Tax and Customs Board. This group also addresses, among other things, the problems of selling fish caught in recreational fisheries. As you probably understand and know, on the surface of purely nationality or citizenship, when it comes to intra-EU movement, there is no way in which we can set the rules in such a way that we can make a distinction when the catchers come from our southern neighbouring countries, for example. Question 3: 'How much of foreign citizens will the penalties for non-compliance with fishing standards be paid? ' Here I would divide the answer in two. One party concerns criminal proceedings. During the last year, six criminal proceedings have been initiated against amateurs from Latvia, where suspects have also been detained. These matters have been settled in court under urgent procedure. Violators have been convicted of criminal offences and have been sentenced to parole in prison, which means that when they commit the next offence, they are threatened with real imprisonment. The other side is misdemeanor proceedings. Despite the fact that fines have been imposed, all fines have so far been outstanding. As the heir pointed out, the situation is much more difficult when it comes to receiving them. Question 4: "What do you think of the idea of tightening up penalties for non-compliance with fishing standards? ' If we look at the levels of penalties currently in force and think about the possibility of initiating criminal proceedings in the case of major environmental damage of a certain financial value, I would not dare to say that the penalties themselves are somewhat too lenient in the case of recreational fishing. It's pretty tough in there right now. Rather, it is a question of whether all the offenders have been punished and what kind of spirit is spreading in the catching circle, whether the perception has arrived that, in the event of conscious violations, they still have a very high likelihood of being punished. This is probably the part where further work is needed and where awareness of environmental inspections and sanctions for infringements should arrive. To this end, penalties do not necessarily have to be tightened up; rather, it is a matter of close and effective control. Question 5: Has the Ministry considered setting a daily limit for fish caught by recreational fishermen? ' We have discussed this topic at meetings with representatives of the sector, so that both amateur fishermen and professional fishermen have been at the table. As a general rule, professional fishermen are the advocates or initiators of the restriction. The argument comes first and foremost from the fact that professional fishermen feel that recreational fishermen take their fish out and fish too much. We shall consider whether the quantities of recreational fishing should be regulated and, if so, in what circumstances, with which arguments. Currently, quantities are regulated for recreational fishing of salmon and sea trout in rivers. The Ministry of the Environment can still impose these restrictions because of the conservation of the stock, but I would not rule out that in the end it will prove reasonable and necessary to regulate the maximum quantities allowed for recreational fishing. Where exactly to draw this line again, I do not want to speculate now, but I do not rule out the need for regulation. The last question is quite philosophical: 'How do you describe the situation of professional fishermen in Estonia? " The profession of a professional fisherman is certainly a difficult profession, and its efficiency depends not only on the person himself, not only on the hard work or skills of the fisherman, but on the whole range of things that are out of the control of the fisherman, whether we are talking about the state of the fish stocks, the weather, the impact of seals on fishing or much more. There are certainly a number of areas in Estonia where coastal fishing is relatively normal, where fishing fish are at high prices, and where stocks are also such that there is not much to complain about at the moment. At the same time, there are regions in Estonia where the yield is already very low and, in addition, a large number of right holders have been registered as fishermen. So even though it is a very small country, we also have very different situations for professional fishermen from one region to another. It can probably be said that the situation in the trawl fishing sector is somewhat better, as structural reforms are essentially coming to an end in this sector and the fleet has also been re-adjusted as a result of fishing opportunities. So there's a little bit stronger and better. That's it for now, and I'll answer the questions again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U229	Thank you! You have at least one question. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U230	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to come back to the third question. This concerned penalties imposed on our southern neighbours for infringements of fishing standards. You were forced to say that the fines were outstanding. I assume that such misdemeanours will also be imposed in the administration of several other ministries, such as speed cameras. It is likely that a scheme has been developed there, how people who are not Estonian citizens will pay their fine for speeding. Would it be possible to obtain penalties for infringements of fishing rules if there were more effective cooperation with another ministry? If the Ministry of the Environment does not have the strength to ensure payment of the fine in Latvia, could another ministry come to the aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U231	Thank you. This cooperation is certainly important. Today, however, we are still talking about recreational fishermen, fines and misdemeanours imposed on recreational fishing. Yes, of course cooperation is important, and the Environmental Inspectorate is really making very good efforts in this regard to explore the experiences of other Estonian ministries and find those places where we can take over what has already been done in another field, from which to learn and what to follow. So cooperation is important in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U232	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-17_U233	Good fellows! Anyone who wishes to participate in a free microphone will now have this opportunity. Anyone who wishes to speak in a free microphone, please register after the hammer hit! No calls, so I won't open a free microphone. Thank you! Today's trial is over. A lot of strength for you in your work! Closure of the sitting at 20.10.
