ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 12th working week. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of discussing, on behalf of the delegates of the Centre Party Group, an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip regarding the infamous Kapo Yearbook, which our esteemed Prime Minister described yesterday in this Chamber as the most anticipated periodic edition in Estonia. Those who don't like it, he suggested turning to the press board. The joke was good, of course, but we still have a few questions for him. The schools of Tallinn and Narva have challenged the decision of the Government of the Republic in court, which did not satisfy their request to continue teaching in Russian in Estonian Russian gymnasiums. According to the information published in the Yearbook, it is obvious that authors are already influencing the judgment by their actions before the appeal is dealt with. We would like the Prime Minister's comment on this. We also ask whether the Prime Minister shares the view that the preservation of Russian language and culture poses a threat to the constitutional order of the Estonian state, as the authors of the Kapo Yearbook probably think. We want to know to what extent Mr Ansip's opinion must limit the representation of the interests of the Russian-speaking community in politics and at national level. And the final question is which media channels have been officially declared hostile to the Estonian state. However, if such a blacklist does not exist, why are people who have interviewed Russia Today publicly condemned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U3	Viktor Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We, the 12 members of the Central Party Group, have a question for Minister Hanno Pevkur. This concerns the fact that an amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act entered into force on 15 January 2011, which allows medical students who completed the fourth course to work as an assistant doctor. In this regard, 40 doctors have been created last year, some 120 in that year. In total, there are estimated 300 students in the fourth and fifth courses, so these places are not enough. But what's worse is that these places don't have a cover. The current situation is that students in the medical school go to Finland as assistant doctors after the fourth course, as it is financed by the Finnish state budget. And if these future doctors have been working in Finland for some time, they won't be coming back. So I'd say it's a matter of national importance. In this connection, we have four questions for the Minister concerning the organisation of the assistant medical system and, most of all, the financing of this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U5	Honourable Riigikogu, I do not see any more requests. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries, the Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. I will also report that the Chairman of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U6	We go to the first item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs'. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Deniss Borodichi, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A second reading debate took place at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 16 April. No amendments had been received at that time. We agreed with the language editors' proposal to replace the word'signed' in paragraph 2 of the draft with'signed'. We didn't make any more changes to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U8	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. No amendments have been received to bill 199. The position of the lead committee is to put the draft to a final vote at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put draft 199 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 199 of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities' submitted by the Constitutional Committee has been adopted as a decision. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U9	Let us move to the second item on the agenda, which is the debate on the 'intergenerational solidarity is a potential' issue of vital importance. Allow me, before we go to this item, to briefly present the procedure for this procedure. Due to § 153 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur's presentation is up to 20 minutes, then questions and answers up to 20 minutes. After that, the presentation of Lauri Leppik, Professor of Social Policy at Tallinn University, will be up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. This will be followed by a presentation by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna, for up to 20 minutes and questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit two oral questions to all rapporteurs during the discussion on this item. After the round of questions, it's like we're always negotiating. At the request of the Committee on Social Affairs, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak to the representatives of the political groups and then to the other members of the Riigikogu. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Now it is my great honour and pleasure to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am extremely pleased to stand before you here today and discuss such an important issue. We understand that the importance of this issue is increasing from day to day. Let me start by thanking the Social Affairs Committee for the opportunity to exchange views with you here. I am very pleased that my presentation will be followed by a report by Lauri Leppik. It is as if, in combination with a good seventh mind, our two presentations are divided from the theme of the European Year of Active Ageing and the Year of Solidarity between Generations, so that I focus mainly on the first side, i.e. active ageing, and Lauri Leppik speaks a little bit more about solidarity between generations. We didn't have an agreement, it just happened. But now to the substance. Population scientist Poetry Zacchaeus has written down four important results of population ageing. Firstly, the proportion of the population aged 65 and over has increased by fourfold over 130 years, from 4.2% to 17.2%; secondly, the average age of the population has increased in 130 years from 23.5 to 39.5 years; thirdly, the share of the population aged over 85 continues to increase in the population over 40 years, from 133% to over 85 years of age, from 2.3 times more, and the increase in the number of recent years to around 6% per year; and fourthly, more than half of those now born should live more than 80 years. In view of both these eloquent facts and other trends, it was this week that the Ministry started developing an active ageing strategy for 2013-2020. With the help of the strategy we are creating, we want to ensure that the older people of Estonia have a wide range of opportunities for active ageing and living with dignity. Let me focus on four areas which, according to our understanding, could form the backbone of the strategy to be drawn up. Firstly, the employment of the elderly. As an ageing population inevitably leads to an increase in the number of people of retirement age, it is increasingly important to promote the employment of older people. In the coalition agreement, we have noted that in the view of the government union, the increase in the number of healthy years is even more important than the overall increase in life expectancy. The state values a socially active life that, when you retire, provides more income and gives everyone the opportunity to work as long as they want. Estonia has so far been characterised and I hope that it will continue to be characterised by one of the highest employment rates for older people in the European Union. According to Eurostat, Estonia was the fourth largest after Sweden, Denmark and Germany. The average for the 27 countries in the European Union is 47.7%, and in Estonia it is 57.5%. Looking at the activity indicator, i.e. readiness to participate in the labour market, we were even second in 2011 after Sweden. This shows that older people in Estonia work and want to work much more than it is on average in the European Union. This means that our people will work longer, not immediately retire, and those who lose their jobs will immediately start looking for new jobs. While the activity rate in Sweden reached 74.5% and 64.2% in Estonia, for example in Belgium, Italy, Hungary, Poland, Slovenia and Malta it remained below 40%. It is the relatively high employment rate of older women that increases the employment rate of older women compared to that of other countries. Older men want to work more, and their activity rate is higher than that of older women, but there are many men who are unable to find employment. We currently have 52.3% employment for older men and 54.9% employment for women. This, too, shows that male activity is high, but it is difficult to get a job at an older age. Looking at the employment rate by age group, between 45 and 74 years of age, it appears that employment has increased in all groups over the last 11 years. The greatest increase has been in the employment of 70-74-year-olds, which has almost doubled in ten years. The ratio between the number of working age and the number of older people should become worse in the near future, and this poses a particular challenge to the sustainability of the labour market. It is clear that if we want more or even comparable employment than we do now, one of the essential solutions is the willingness of people aged 65 and over and, of course, we can work. Estonian society as a whole is facing challenges and it is necessary to try to make even better use of older people's resources in the labour market. An interesting fact in this context is that according to one survey, there are more and more people who consider their education to be too high for work. Perhaps there is a potential for even greater participation of older people and also for employers' willingness to recruit them. The second is lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U11	Minister, I apologize to you. Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall! Please respect the waitress and those colleagues who want to listen to the presentation. I beg you so much! Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U12	Thank you. So lifelong learning. Although, as has just been said, many older people feel that their educational attainment is too high for the work they do, it is still necessary to acquire more and more new knowledge and skills to remain active in the labour market. Older age needs to be active, and self - training must also be pursued consistently. Successful participation in social processes, including in the labour market, is a prerequisite for being well informed of the development of both their field of activity and society at large. In many areas, being up-to-date today does not mean having a certificate of qualification or a diploma obtained years ago, but constantly acquiring new knowledge and increasingly communicating with other people and with the country. Apart from classical information channels, e.g. books, newspapers and direct communication with other people, all forms of interactive communication are increasingly important today. More and more online services have created opportunities to communicate with people and institutions around the world. The Internet provides access to information and is therefore an increasingly important tool for broadening our knowledge. However, using and finding information on Internet services requires constant knowledge of these opportunities. This observation was also made by various researchers in a study of social trends published by Statistics Estonia in 2010 entitled 'Coherence of Old Ages'. Professor Emeritus Ene-Margit Tiit has also stressed the importance of lifelong learning, noting that participation in lifelong learning, both in the general population and in lifelong learning over the age of 50, is directly linked to participation in employment. This knowledge is also complemented by a 2009 survey on older people's livelihoods, the results of which show that in the current core work, older people in employment and older people in the previous basic work, who are not in employment, had to complete up-to-date training or level training in nearly a third of the 50-74-year-olds. So we're not getting out of training. Thirdly, we would like to focus on services. It is known that the need to provide services in both health care and care institutions will increase significantly after the person reaches the age of 75. At the same time, in Estonia, we have been moving consistently in a direction that would allow people to live between their hometowns even at a high age. In recent years, the home care system has been successfully developed, as evidenced by almost a tenfold increase in the number of treatments for home care over the last eight years. At the same time, let us admit that without hospitals and nursing homes, we cannot imagine our society. This is evidenced by the fact that, despite the economic difficulties of recent years, the number of care users has increased by about a quarter over the last five years: from 850 to 10400. As far as the future is concerned, it is clear that the need to reconcile health and care services is increasing. And in the light of this knowledge, it is good to see that the number of people in our welfare system who have a professional certificate for both care workers and nursing staff continues to increase. Fourthly, I can also focus on inclusion, coherence and volunteering. We can talk about social cohesion when different groups of people are equally involved in all social processes. At the same time, we must realise that the cohesion of older people is different from that of younger people. In particular, the emphasis on working is also on coherence, as the end of working life will result in a significant reduction in the social cohesion of older people. In order to alleviate this concern, it is important to provide older people with comprehensive opportunities for active ageing, self-development, areas of interest and participation in cultural and social life. Of course, much depends on people's own activity, or on how much they can and whether they really want to take advantage of the opportunities created to be active, communicate and participate in society. We can also find this statement in the article "Coherence of Old Ages" published by Statistics Estonia in 2010. But if an elderly person has such a desire, he must have the opportunity to realize it. If we look again at developments in Estonia in recent years, we are pleased to note that in ten years the number of day centres in Estonia has at least doubled. There should be a little less than 100 daily centres in Estonia. In these centres, older people can take part in leisure activities, training courses, computer and language training, etc., and use services that promote livelihoods, such as home services, often also catering, etc. When you look at universities, the University of Tartu's Centre for Applied Social Sciences RAKE published an analysis of civic education and volunteering this year. It stated that in Estonia, people aged between 40 and 64 are more involved in volunteering. Of all 50-59-year-olds, it is estimated that 7% and 5% of the 60-64-year-olds are dealing with this, with even fewer older people. If we compare these figures with the willingness of older people to work, as well as employment activity indicators, we can see that there are very large scissors here. There is a huge gulf between social and labour market activity, which should not be. The more active and inclusive each of us is at a higher age, the healthier and more united society is in every sense. To sum it up. It is clear that in these few minutes it will not be possible to find a comprehensive approach to active ageing and intergenerational solidarity, and we will not be able to analyse all aspects. However, the above brief summary, i.e. an overview of the issues to be taken into consideration in order to support active ageing and solidarity between generations, was one of the themes on which the national strategy for active ageing focuses. Perhaps again in brief: firstly employment, secondly lifelong learning, thirdly services, and fourthly inclusion and volunteering. I call on all members of the Riigikogu to also make a valuable contribution to the development of this strategy. If you have any ideas as to what the content of Estonia's active ageing strategy should be, all proposals are welcome at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Happy year of active ageing and solidarity between generations for all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U13	Thank you, Minister, for your presentation and your good wishes. We also have questions. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U14	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Since you have dealt with this issue, maybe you know whether there are countries in the European Union or elsewhere where a person has to retire, it means that he or she has to leave work when he or she reaches retirement age. And are there countries where a person does not receive a pension as he or she does in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U15	Thank you for your question. Make me quit my job, I don't know. There are huge differences in the tax system with regard to retirement. In a very large number of countries, simultaneous retirement and employment are limited. The Estonian state has not restricted it, and I consider it reasonable for a number of reasons. One reason, of course, is that this is how we manage to keep older people more in the labour market. Another reason certainly is that our collective social wealth allows pensions to be paid out in the amount that we currently have. If older people are prepared and able to earn extra income from work, they should definitely not be denied it. When we look at the ministerial debate on active ageing in Europe, one of the most important keywords highlighted by most European countries is to keep older people in employment and return to employment. When we look at statistics from European countries, including to the east, these statistics speak very clearly the language that Europe is an ageing society. And in the light of an ageing society, in the 10, 15 and 20 years term, we have to admit that we do not have enough labour market hands to do at least the same amount of work we have to do now. So keeping people in employment and returning them to employment is crucial not only for Estonia but also for other European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U16	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Apart from the previous response, the reason why many countries do not consider it appropriate to pay a full pension to the older generation at work is that in very many countries pensions are almost 60% of the previous salary of a person. Unfortunately, we have a much smaller one. But you dealt with education on several occasions and pointed it out as the key to keeping a person active, which I am sure we all agree with here. However, as a minister, are you aware that in reality it is quite difficult for the older generation to return to education, including due to a number of formal requirements? Of course, there are no problems with courses and non-formal learning. However, if you want to pursue vocational education, for example, a very large part of distance learning opportunities have to do with secondary education. Despite a number of proposals to change things, however, it has been abandoned. As Minister of Social Affairs, would you propose a much more flexible approach to such formal requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U18	Removing any administrative obstacle that allows people to participate in lifelong learning is reasonable in any case. These obstacles therefore need to be reduced. Administrative obstacles do not in any way support our fundamental and clear understanding that lifelong learning is necessary. These administrative barriers vary between disciplines. I will give you, for example, medical training, where there is currently a retired person in a residency who has acquired a doctor's profession in one specialty but has re-entered the residency. So this specialty, maybe in medical science, doesn't have that barrier. But by lifelong learning, I don't just mean academic education. We could support ten or a hundred hands, or no matter how many hands we have in this Chamber of Riigikogu together, so that older people can also participate in non-formal lifelong learning. One good form of work that has been strongly confirmed in Estonia in recent years is the universities of third youth or adult education centres of the elderly, or whatever their name is. We can give examples of what is happening at the Technical University; we can give examples of what is happening in Pärnu, the University of Tartu, and there are older people and other places in Viljandi. These forms of learning require a great deal of activity and, specifically, fulfil the role of lifelong learning. So I would approach the matter on two sides: above all, there should be readiness from both academic and vocational training providers, but on the other hand, people themselves must be prepared to participate in lifelong learning, either through formal or non-traditional forms of learning. It is essential, for example, that younger generations teach older generations the basics of computers so that they can apply for various social benefits electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U19	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U20	Thank you. Honourable performer! I thought you had a very constructive and serious speech, but it seems to me that solving this task is not very easy. I'd like to start with the word'solidarity'. If you look at the history of the last 20 years in Estonia, there has been no solidarity and tolerance among young people towards the old generation. If you read online comments now, there is such a message that you are ahead of us, holding jobs, etc. Get out of the way! Hence the question: how do you intend to find jobs where an older person can go to work? And will the full pension continue in the future, or will there be some kind of change of mind and the actual full pension no longer be available when you start working?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U21	I'll start at the end. I see no reason why we should take away the motivation of our elderly to work and take away their pension. I don't see a chance. As far as solidarity is concerned, I can still see that it is businesses that create jobs. One important keyword here is certainly a change in the understanding of entrepreneurs. This is not only about older people, it is about people who need additional protection or help on the labour market. Yesterday, we discussed with the manager of Hoolekandeteenused AS how more people with disabilities, including the elderly, could be brought back to the labour market. Indeed, the world is developing very rapidly in this area. I have already brought an example of a German car factory in this hall: productivity increased with the help of older people. In Germany, there is another good example that concerns people with disabilities. It has come so far that a person paralyzed from his body is able to do accounting work thanks to a computer program and a camera eye. Camera eyes can track eye movements and use a special computer program in this way. There is an example from Norway where large freight vehicles are adapted so that wheelchairs can make long-distance journeys, etc., etc. Thus, employers can do a great deal to involve older and disabled people in the labour market. Even if, in a three, four or five-year perspective, we already have some surplus of the labour force, while some of the entrepreneurs are already talking about labour shortages, in the long term, 15 to 20, even in a 30-year perspective, all trends, all population scientists very clearly point to the fact that we have a shortage of labour. Every pair of hands is worth gold.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U22	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U23	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is well known that the Estonian people are aging at the earliest in Europe and that we have no choice but to bring more hands in the form of older people. The old really are the lifeline of our future. I'm almost asking the same question. Why, then, is it, as this study has also pointed out, that 71% of employers do not respond well to a particular worker after the retirement age? Pensionables are not likely to be employed either. We remember that the day-to-day dismissal was legalized some time ago, it was lost during the Jaak Aab. I still recall the seventh-grade human teaching, which still treats old people as older. I also wanted to say that parents have enormous advantages, which have been highlighted in the study. Young people have far fewer of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U24	Yes, as far as the concept of the elderly is concerned, we do not have a definition of who the elderly are. We know what year a person is entitled to a pension. But at what point do we say he's elderly? If we look at the same strategy that we have drawn up, which we have sent out this week to all the cooperation partners of the Ministry, we will not talk there about the age of 65+, we are talking about the age of 50+. We do not want to say that 50-year-olds are elderly, but what we want to say is that these issues and problems need to be taken into account much earlier in order to prepare for retirement than from the state age. If we only start dealing with the problems of active ageing or old age when we arrive at age 65, then we are hopelessly late. There are health issues, there are welfare issues, there are very many other issues. Of course, I also believe that older people have a very clear potential in terms of the labour market, and there is no doubt about that. I say that those entrepreneurs who contribute to the training of their employees, to their continuing training and to their longevity will certainly win more in the future. The development of technology will certainly contribute to this. We see that hard physical work is reduced and that there is more mechanised and computerized work, which means that people can be more useful to a particular company at a higher age and, of course, to the whole of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U25	Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U26	Thank you. Good minister! In your report, you touched on the need for an increasing number of social services. Today, older people have very different opportunities to receive supportive services to cope with their own lives. The quality of the services they provide varies greatly depending on the local government in which the person lives. What can be done in this area to ensure that older people are treated equally so that they are offered the same social services as possible, so that they are not discriminated against on the basis of where they live?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U27	Thank you for a very good question. It is true that most of Estonia's social work is done at local level. This is certainly right, because social work is a work of the kind that must be done as close to the person as possible. Undoubtedly, local governments have the best chance of doing so. Now, if you look at the services we offer, really, I have said this repeatedly in this Chamber, too, I am concerned about the different capacities of the municipalities. I am also thinking about the amount of money that can be invested in social protection by municipalities. Differences are too large and there could be fewer differences at all. Leaving aside individual investments either in a care establishment or somewhere else, it must be acknowledged that the contribution to "current services" is also very different. We have talked for quite a while with the local governments about the minimum package of social welfare services that all municipalities should offer in any case. Unfortunately, we have still not reached an agreement with the local governments on this. We have taken a step forward: at the end of last year, the guidelines for minimum welfare services were endorsed. I believe that these guidelines are a first step very clearly in the direction that every person, regardless of where he chooses to live, has the certainty that these specific services are provided by all municipalities. And if any service is provided by any municipality more, then it is only positive. Certainly, some competition between municipalities is also very important in order to value their inhabitants and provide the best services. But as I said, our aim is to come to the Riigikogu with amendments to the Social Welfare Act. We will be very clear there on what must be, in particular, social services provided by all municipalities. It is a 'necessary minimum'. However, we do not expect the state to provide these services. This must still be done by the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U28	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! As we heard from the report, and we hear it constantly from elsewhere, Europe is ageing. The problem is serious, as young people are reduced and the question arises of how to support the older generation. But for me, there is a paradox on this issue that I have not received a good answer to. Recently, listening to the news, the ear caught up with a different problem that unemployment among young people is higher than on average, not only in Estonia but also in other European countries. This is an interesting paradox that we complain that there are few young people, but that unemployment among young people is higher. Maybe it'll be until all the young people get a hundred percent job, knows how much time. How can we approach it? After all, this statistical information is clear that youth unemployment is higher, while we are concerned that there will soon not be enough young people to work. How would you explain the contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U30	I'd be happy to explain that. I'm sure I can't explain this for good, but if you want, we can have a little more talk later. If we take older people's employment and unemployment, for example, both are relatively high figures in Estonia, we are, as I said, second in number with our activity rate and fourth in number with the employment rate of older people in Europe, i.e. how many older people we have worked in Estonia, but we are also the top ten in Europe in terms of the unemployment rate of older people. The same parallel can be drawn for young people. This parallel is quite uniform and is due to the very high level of activity and willingness of our young and older people to go to work. As has been said, we also have high unemployment among the elderly. This unemployment figure, calculated according to the International Labour Organisation methodology, is based on the person's activity, i.e. whether a person is ready to go to work within two weeks. As a result, youth unemployment is also high. The latter is also greatly influenced by learning opportunities. For example, when we look at Estonia's most difficult time at the end of 2009, youth unemployment reached almost 40%. We are currently at the European centre level in this respect, we are fluctuating between 20% and 25%, and this fall has been the biggest in Estonia. There are two reasons for this. First of all, we have had a relatively higher number of young people working. Secondly, at the time of the survey, we had the highest unemployment rate, i.e. almost 40%, as in other countries, and the survey was conducted at the time of graduation. Young people did not yet know the interview included young people from 15 years of age, whether or not they could enter the university in upper secondary school, vocational school or a little older. In such a situation, their willingness to go to work was great. Perhaps that answer explained the situation a little bit. Yes, we have a very high activity rate for both young and elderly, around three quarters. This also means that both employment and potential unemployment rates are above the average.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U31	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, first of all, thank you very much for a thorough review. Indeed, the concept to be developed and endorsed for the years 2013 to 2020 is of the utmost importance for Estonia, and the Commission on Older People's Policy also plays a major role in developing it. It is an advisory committee at the Ministry of Social Affairs, where Estonian older organisations are also very actively represented, who are also monitoring the debate on this matter of national importance here today. One of the issues on the agenda is that when European Union funds finance the construction and commissioning of care and care facilities, both trainers and older organisations and project makers have been concerned that it is often difficult to obtain funding from European Union funds for projects involving the age group 65+, whether it be retraining or other training or something else. Projects should, like, target younger people. Do you see here an opportunity to contribute to the development of things, because indeed, gambling tax finances us well?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U33	Thank you for your question. I believe that this is one of the key issues for both the senior policy committee and the ministry, as well as the unemployment fund, when we draw up the conditions for using the Structural Funds by 2014 and beyond. Unfortunately, we do not yet know what the final European Commission proposal on the volume of Structural Funds will be. If this volume is clear, and it can now be expected that the size of the Social Fund will increase, then surely one of the foundations of the active ageing strategy, on the basis of which Structural Funds funds will be allocated for the next programming period, especially for the re-training and further training of older people, for lifelong learning, whatever it takes. The length of this period is one where we can already see what problems we have in the labour market. The European Social Fund is intended to address them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U34	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Lauri Leppiku, Professor of Social Policy at Tallinn University!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U35	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A few weeks ago in the Social Committee, I spoke about active ageing and the opportunities and challenges involved in Estonia. In today's presentation, I decided to devote myself more to the second half of the European Year of this year's theme of intergenerational solidarity and to look at this subject with a slightly broader perspective, but also with specific examples and references to figures. Europe's focus this year on active ageing and intergenerational solidarity are, of course, linked to an ageing population and, at the same time, to the hope that increased activity to a higher age, together with solidarity between families and generations, will be the forces that Europe's countries are driving through changes in population ageing. An ageing society needs the solidarity of generations, just as it needs the active contribution of as many as possible, regardless of age. Solidarity often associate us with woes, need for help and crises. It is true, as the old people say, that a friend is known for trouble. Indeed, it is the woes and crises that are often a test of solidarity. In particular, however, the concept of solidarity refers to those links and links that hold different social communities, human communities together. The stronger these links, the stronger society will be, and the easier it will be to deal with different problems. Thus, in our daily lives, solidarity, including solidarity between generations, is not just a pathetic category, but rather an important sign that unites different generations and parts of society. In the interests of society, the state must work to maintain and strengthen these links. The French sociologist Émile Durkheim has played a key role in the interpretation of solidarity, who, almost 120 years ago, described in his book 'The Division of Labour in Society' how the content and form of solidarity will change as society changes. Durkheim asked why the individual, on the one hand becoming more independent and independent, became increasingly dependent on society. And he found that in an increasingly complex society based on division of labour and specialisation, solidarity is based not only on similarities (a similar occupation, way of life, education, faith), but also on complementarity and interdependence created by specialisation and differences. In the context of a new major social change, an ageing population, we must rethink and perhaps also rethink the meaning of solidarity, including solidarity between generations. Intergenerational solidarity involves links, contacts, roles, division of labour and income transfers between generations, both within the family, within communities and at the broader social level. This is a question of the contribution, tasks and role of the various generations. Europe has set itself the goal of building an age-friendly society capable of adapting to changes in population structure. The European Union Social Protection Committee has formulated common principles for ageing. The focus will be on the inclusion of older people, lifelong learning, the elimination of age discrimination, the transfer of experience between generations, age-based work management, part-time work, adequate income, an age-friendly environment including goods and services, participation in community activities. Solidarity between generations is a form of social capital. This is the benefit of families, communities and social networks, and this solidarity as social capital has its financial value. Even if we do not measure this in national accounts for GDP, the support provided within the family, transfers, participation in community activities can be measured. When we talk about the indicators measured by GDP, we often fail to see the products and services of older people, both for use in Estonia and for export, as well as the economic potential. Goods and services do not ask how old are the people who have produced and provided them, but they ask how old consumers are. In a Eurobarometer survey a few years ago, only 33% of Estonian respondents agreed that goods and services for older people are important for economic development. This was the third outback figure among the 27 EU countries. On average, 64% of the people considered this to be important for the EU economy. Different generations can and will be solidarity-based at different levels: family, community, local and national. The various levels of solidarity should also support one another in the sense that one level applies when solidarity at another level fails for one reason or another. The solidarity of the generations is also aggravated by a number of factors, both from wider social processes and from the choices made by individual individuals. We see a growing physical and spiritual distance between generations. A rapidly changing society presents a number of challenges to adaptability. Old and young people often have different perceptions of what is good for society, which should be the objectives of society. In the Eurobarometer survey on intergenerational solidarity, already cited, 76% of Estonian respondents agreed that old and young people would not easily agree on the objectives of society, which would be good for Estonia. The increasing mobility of young people, both domestically and abroad, and the thinning of contacts are another factor for solidarity. A survey by the Estonian Institute of Demography a few years ago showed that only one fifth of people aged 40 to 50, who are still alive or both, meet their parents once a year. According to the same Eurobarometer survey, only 14% of respondents in Estonia were satisfied with the activities of public authorities in promoting mutual understanding between the young and older generations. This result was the second from behind in Europe. The worst estimates were only in Hungary. It is probably not just an assessment of the activity or inactivity of public authorities, but a broader dissatisfaction with intergenerational relations in Estonia. Both in the press and in political and academic debates, the challenges of population ageing are often mentioned in a sufficiently stereotyped key, focusing on negative development scenarios such as increases in health care, pensions and welfare costs. One might even say that we have developed a standard model of thinking about the way people talk about the ageing population in Estonia. True, not only in Estonia, these stereotypical thought models are often borrowed. One of the background ideas of this year's European Year is to disprove the view that older people are a burden on society. In fact, this is not the case in Estonia, although we also have enthusiastic speakers in the public space who repeat the opposite week after week. According to the Eurobarometer survey, only 6% of respondents strongly believed that the elderly are a burden on Estonian society. 75% of respondents disagreed with this argument. Indeed, intergenerational solidarity at the broadest level of society is the foundation of the large social policy systems, both health insurance and pension insurance. These systems depend directly on solidarity between generations and within generations. However, the issue of the sustainability of social security systems is certainly not just a question of the numerical relationship between generations. Intergenerational solidarity must not only be reduced to financial transfers from people of working age to older people. If there are closer contacts between generations, better mutual understanding and mutual cooperation, financial support will also have a different meaning. Solidarity at family level is, as we know, a constitutional obligation in Estonia. I refer here to § 27 of the Constitution, according to which the family is obliged to take care of its members in need. However, we should also ask whether this solidarity obligation is absolute. If not, where are its limits and how does it relate to other provisions of the Constitution, including the provision that the family as a basis for the survival and growth of the people and society is protected by the state. The obligation of the family to assist its members should not exempt the country and municipalities from their obligations in order to ensure that solidarity at family level is carried out and interrupted. Social protection professionals would say that certain risks are optimal and also fairer to share on a wider basis in order to avoid the re-production of risks. The maintenance load is a heavy burden on the carriers. Thanks to Tiina Kangro and Anne Lille, the Makers of the Puute Point, we have become more aware of the problems faced by carers of disabled children. The parent often cares for a disabled child even when the child is already an adult and the parent himself has reached retirement age. This is a kind of grotesque example of a constitutional family solidarity obligation, in which the change from an earlier donor to an aid need often does not alleviate the burden of care. The Institute of Social Work at Tallinn University has also analysed the carers who care for the elderly family member, which is the guardians of people aged 65 and over. We know from various studies that about 17% of the Estonian population regularly cares for an older family member. In our current care model, the local government, which appoints the carer and pays the carer's allowance, delegates all further responsibility to the family member. The emphasis here is on the caretaker's duties. About 450 guardians of older people were interviewed by Master's students of social work. A large proportion of these carers for older people are two- to-ones-on-one, also at retirement age. Thus, there is a situation in which one elderly person cares for another elderly person. However, a third of carers are of working age, often when an adult child cares for an elderly parent. 20% of carers work, 13% are inactive. Many of these carers have been doing this for a very long time, over five years, and have learned from experience by care professionals. Nearly half of them are involved in maintenance tasks for more than seven hours a day, or for them it is essentially a full - time job. Many people do this work because of their inner conviction and sense of duty at about 90%, but more than half of carers also noted that the cost of care services was too high. Basically, they don't have a choice. A large majority, 98% are willing to continue in this role, but information is sought on support for the health and services of the elderly, as well as money for care facilities. There is also an urgent need for a replacement for temporary absences. The increase in life is not just an additional burden on public finances. This also means some additional resources for society. However, the increase in life expectancy will certainly also change the relationship between generations within the family. Despite persistent myths that Estonian men do not live until retirement age, population statistics show that 70 out of every one hundred men in the generation and 90 out of every one hundred women live to 65 years of age. When, just a few decades ago, the majority of people who reached retirement age had both parents died by then, it is becoming more and more common for those who have reached retirement age to have either one parent or both still live. Social policy must also change when society changes. It must adapt to population change, on the one hand, by neutralising the emerging risks, but on the other hand, also by exploiting new opportunities arising from population change. In Estonia, policies and action plans for older people have been approved as a separate document, but the UN Action Plan for the International Ageing of Madrid, adopted in 2002, highlighted that the ageing of society is an issue that should be integrated into the various social and economic development plans. Within one course of Tallinn University, we analysed with students the extent to which development plans in different areas of Estonia take into account the ageing of the population, and we found a few positive examples. The "Roadmap for Mobility 2011/2014" developed by the Ministry of Culture states that it is never too late to start the exercise and plans activities for different target groups, including grandparents and senior citizens. The "Estonian Information Society Development Plan 2013" of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications provides for the development of courses aimed at older people to develop computer skills, including the use of the Internet. However, we found much more sectoral development plans that largely overlook the changes in society in older people and population ageing, including rural, adult education, civil society and public health development plans in Estonia. In this case, a stereotyped picture of active ageing is reflected in the fact that an active old man is walking on a long walk and going to day centres where he surfs the Internet, but we do not yet have strategic visions of developing rural and civil society in the context of population ageing. So the development of an active ageing strategy referred to by Minister Pevkur could certainly be a useful undertaking. However, we also need to review the development plans in different areas from the perspective of how the target group for older people and the ageing population are reflected in them. Finally. Solidarity between generations may or may not please us, but society cannot function without it. And by paraphrasing Brother John from the film "The Last Relic," it can be said that without solidarity they too will not get along. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U36	I dare say that it certainly provides food for thought for more people than it does for me alone. I really referred to these different risks, the different risks, which, even at a very practical level, make it more difficult to work on old models of solidarity. And growing distance is one of them. This was actually the reason why I referred to the Estonian rural development plan in the final part of my presentation. When I read it, I noticed that it was about encouraging young people to engage in entrepreneurship in the countryside. At the same time, this document largely overlooks the fact to which you rightly referred: the rural population is ageing, the share of older people is high in the country and is growing. Rural reality today is nothing more than before, and one sectoral strategy must certainly not overlook this fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U37	Thank you, Professor, for your presentation. You have questions too. Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U38	Good questioner! This is a regional policy issue that not only concerns older people but also concerns the development of Estonia as a whole. Without will, development has gone in the direction of job creation in cities, densely populated areas, fewer jobs in the countryside. It is the result of the urbanisation process that productive and rewarding work is others. The structure of the labour market has also changed accordingly. However, there are jobs in cities rather than in the countryside. When we look at the classic careers of older people in their youth, many of them were involved in agriculture. After all, there is no production in this form in the country today; the production of smaller farms or small businesses has been replaced by a lifestyle. I think we need to make informed decisions here. As a result of the use of European Structural Funds, it is precisely regional measures that have been invested in support of this way of life. As far as the activity of older people is concerned, although the percentage of Estonia's participation in volunteering is lower than the European average, I think it is not because they voluntarily do nothing for their community or their loved ones, but simply because we do not define it that way. We take some things for granted. At the same time, I believe that social and cultural activity should be more active, especially in rural areas, in order to keep its inhabitants socially connected. Maybe it'll create more jobs. However, I agree with the statement on the question of the questioner. We have a problem with jobs and services moving to cities and their surroundings. But this is not the case only in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U39	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U40	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I, too, thank you for this interesting presentation and their views. It is clear that society as a whole must be prepared for and able to cope with demographic change. One important area we have is the economy. How would you comment on our employment policy, the employment policy that takes account of older people in particular? Is it at a satisfactory level in Estonia, or do you have any proposals to amend it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U42	The Minister has read the bill to us here, and it could be understood that the situation is good. The employment rate of older people is high and the average age of retirement in Estonia is also one of the highest in the European Union, which is higher than the average age of retirement. Thus, a large number of people continue to work for at least some time after reaching retirement age. But I think it would be premature to put things together so that everything has gone well and nothing more needs to be done. I believe that it is still possible to implement a number of activities in Estonia that keep people active for longer. If we look at what are the main factors influencing job leaving, or why people are quitting, we have certain areas where people want to retire as soon as possible. This relates in particular to working conditions. In sectors where working conditions are difficult or difficult, people tend to stay home early. We have a number of questions relating to the employment opportunities available to people with health restrictions. And we still have relatively unknown age-based labour management strategies, both sectoral and company-level strategies, in order to reconcile older people with their respective roles. In certain areas, including the public sector, we still have enough thinking that 60 years are already too old for certain jobs. So we still have a lot of work to do in drawing up such strategies and changing thought patterns.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U43	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U44	Thank you, good waitress, for a very interesting presentation. As we know, we have a future pension linked to pay through a complex indexation system. There is the basis for one average salary, which means that those earning the minimum wage receive an estimated letter of less than one so-called pension year. And every time we meet this target group in our constituency, this problem is being raised. People perceive it as extreme injustice, for example, for those who have only earned a minimum wage at a store register or at a sewing line. Would it not be possible to reorganize the indexation system so that people can work on a minimum wage and still receive a pension year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U45	I must explain immediately that Estonia has borrowed such a point system or a system of annual coefficients from Germany, more specifically from the well-known 'Bismarck pension model'. In this respect, the person's contribution is compared with the average contribution: his or her wage or, more specifically, his or her social contributions paid on his or her salary are compared to the average national social tax. I agree and am aware that people are quite confused about the fact that this unit, which is called the retirement point in the German pension system, is called the annual coefficient in Estonia. This suggests that it should be a full year. The question is certainly complex and, on the one hand, linked to how we have a distribution of wages and how many of these wages are higher than the average, and how many of them are lower than the average. The strategy, which has been written into the Pension Insurance Act, is to reduce over time the share of pension dependent on pay and increase the share of an equal base for all. This mechanism, like it, also neutralises the inequality in pensions resulting from wage distribution. However, I cannot say whether this is only a cognitive, psychological issue in this sense, that people feel the current situation in a certain way. The Prax Centre for Policy Studies has also proposed alternative policies to address the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U46	Thank you, Professor, for your presentation and your answers. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The subject of today's debate is the statement that there is great potential for solidarity between generations, and I think no one is arguing against it. However, I would like to talk to you about the debate that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs and the reasons why the Committee on Social Affairs has brought this matter to you as a matter of national importance. Young people think the old know nothing, but the old know that the young don't know anything yet. This is a saying that contains a great many truths about today's subject. However, the substantive dissection of the issue of intergenerational solidarity provides an opportunity to overcome the barriers contained in this statement, so that the links between the various generations can create synergies and make them work towards common goals. 2012 is the year of active ageing and solidarity between generations in Europe. As early as 2009, the European Commission announced 29 April as the European Day of Solidarity between Generations. We will celebrate this next week and then there will also be an international conference, one of which will be organised by the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations. And, frankly, thanks to the Association of Estonian Pensioners' Associations, we are here today too, because their activity in political life and society at all is so great that they have proposed that the topics of solidarity and active ageing between generations be discussed here this year. The aim of this year and this theme is to draw attention to the rapidly ageing European population, to develop a friendly environment for older people and to find ideas on how ageing could also bring new opportunities. The potential of older people is often in the background, but society could take that into account. It bothers me, personally, that when we talk about solidarity between generations, we only talk about older people and their problems, their inclusion in society, so that they live a full life. We are talking about the potential they have, especially given that our society is ageing, people are living longer. The aim is for them to live actively longer and also to contribute to society as older people. But let's see what the word'solidarity' means. "Estonia's Dictionary of Righteousness" gives its meaning to'single-mindedness, common interests'. And if we are discussing this here in the Estonian Parliament today, as a matter of national importance in the Estonian Parliament, we could, in addition to everything the previous speakers have said here, open the subject from the perspective of the other half, the younger generation. Several generations live in our society, and the potential and opportunities of older people are certainly essential to the survival of our country, including our nation. The problem of ageing nations is starkly facing us. This is primarily because our population is shrinking, but the challenges we have to fulfil as a nation will not be reduced. Rather, they require more human resources. We have to go around here with our people in the Republic of Estonia very carefully, because there are very few of us. As a nation state, and as a very small nation state, we have exactly the same tasks as all other countries, including the great powers. Being a subject of international law, we are internationally fulfilling the same obligations as other countries and enjoying equal rights with others. We must maintain our community, our people, perhaps be able to manage ourselves. At the same time, we are in a very open world system, economically, socially and in the sense of the movement of the people. It gives us a special responsibility to care for every person and care for every person who lives here. But maintaining our country costs considerably more for every person than in larger countries. There have been forecasts and findings from this remote control today, which we all know: although we talk every day about the fact that we have very high unemployment, in the long run, our greatest, even strategic concern is that we do not have enough workforce. At one end of social solidarity is the elderly, whose problems we have discussed here today. The debate in the Committee on Social Affairs also focused in particular on the active inclusion of this age group. We have talked about how to include older people in the labour market, we have talked about other very different issues, and I do not want to repeat them, but I will briefly address some of the issues that arose in the Committee on Social Affairs and which have not been specifically mentioned here. One important condition for a person to be active in his or her old age is certainly good health. In this respect, rather startling data were presented in the Commission. How many years have our people lived healthy? The figures are as follows: A 50-year-old male's life expectancy is on average 25.1 years and a healthy man's life expectancy of 14.2 years. For a 50-year-old woman, life expectancy is 32.1 years and healthy life expectancy is 14.2 years. This means that men have to live for an average of 11 years and women have to live for 18 years when they are struggling with health problems. And it's not that men are healthier, it's just that they live for a shorter time. So, in fact, we live at our age, which is considered older in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe, on a large scale, in countries with health problems. Another important issue that has been addressed in the Commission, but has not received attention in the Chamber, is loneliness. It's something that's bothering a lot of older people. This is partly because the family model has changed not only in Estonia but also elsewhere in today's world, and certainly because the life expectancy of men and women is different. It is true that on average Estonian women must spend more than ten years of their lives alone. They have valued the creation of a family, but the companion has already left their side. This is, of course, a subject that cannot be described very easily with figures, but it has very serious consequences for a particular person's social activity, his emotional health, on which physical health is largely dependent, his ability to work and volunteer, including the care of his grandchildren and other relatives. Interesting discussion was about how old an elderly person is. Our stereotype is different, but people 50 years old and older are considered older. For most societies it really shocks, maybe not the younger ones. According to surveys in Estonian society, the question you consider to be not a young person anymore, but rather an old person is said to be 42 years old. I hope it will help break the stereotype if we look around at the 50-year-old and a little older people. There's no way we can tell them they're old when we're thinking about our idea of an old person. Unfortunately, in our society there is such an opinion that when a person is elderly, he is mostly in a bad mood and looks old and poor. In fact, that is not the case. One interesting observation made in the Commission was that the mentality of older people and their own stereotype should actually be changed. It is known that perhaps as a reflection of the general opinion of society, very many older people themselves withdraw from life. Philosophy, which people are now aging or to which they will one day reach in their minds, is that now is the time for me to withdraw from society. It's kind of wearing a fading message. But it shouldn't be like that. That is why it is very important to speak precisely about solidarity between generations. If we look, in the long term, at the challenges that the Estonian state and Europe have in general, these solutions, the strategies that the Minister of Social Affairs has told us about here, will not bring good results at the moment. These are very long-term solutions. That is why I want to stress that we need to start thinking actively about ageing at an early age. It may sound a little strange from my mouth, who I am, even by these European standards, still a young person, but we have to deal with middle-aged people, to build up their understandings, maybe make even the younger ones think about what their lifetime will be, their life cycle, how actively they will be able to act in the future. People need to understand that they are also full citizens of age, that their contribution is needed and that without their contribution the Republic of Estonia and the people cannot survive. The foundation is already being laid for them. These studies by Emor, which were presented to us in the Committee on Social Affairs, also show that, in fact, middle-aged people, not to mention young people, do not admit to themselves that they are aging. It will not be recognised until the age of 46 or 47. This means that people in some ways do not really care what happens to them in the future, how healthy they are, and how active they will be after a while. In a way, it's very painful to avenge. It has already served our people in the form of very poor results. The Social Affairs Committee has organised four sessions on this topic, involving people from a wide range of organisations, such as representatives of the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations and the Ministry of Social Affairs, Professor Lauri Leppik of Tallinn University and representatives of the University of Tartu, researchers of Emori, as well as representatives of the Association of Estonian Gerontology and Geriatrics and the Association of Estonian Youth Associations. At the end of last year, we had a debate on the labour market with the Committee on Economic Affairs. However, with my presentation, I would like to reach our last meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, where we had representatives of the Estonian Youth Association. The message that came from there is kind of encouraging, but at the same time I see that the whole society does not really resonate with that message. In fact, although we do not know much about this, our young people have been working quite seriously with our elderly organisations under the leadership of the Estonian Association of Youth Associations. There have been joint discussions, joint reflections. These have revealed some points that we have not followed very much in our daily routine. In fact, young people would be willing to accept suggestions and teachings based on experience from older and older people. This could primarily concern the debate on the labour market, which has been quite heated between the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations and the Estonian Association of Youth Associations. For example, there could be a measure that allows an older worker to transfer his or her experience to a young person at workplaces. I think that this idea can be implemented as the Estonian working culture develops. For me, it was heartwarming to hear that the debate between young and elderly organisations had one theme for 16 years of age. And if at the beginning these views were different, then now the discussion is going to be successful. By opening this issue, I want to come back to a broader and more fundamental issue: it is a question of changing the values of our society. We talked for a very long time about the problems of the elderly and about the fact that their potential has not so far been opened up and used as much as possible for the future of the country and the people. In this context, obviously one of the important objectives is precisely to change values and stereotypes, which were already mentioned. The Estonian people have a very serious strategic problem: we are a dying nation. The number of our births is lower than the number of deaths, and our birth rate is low. The other side of the subject of intergenerational solidarity is very active here: we have talked a great deal about the elderly, but we should also talk about young people. We should talk about unlocking their potential. We must admit to ourselves that 20 years after the restoration of independence, we are in a situation where we do not really know what happens to our children after they are born. We don't know that until they have to go to school. We know that 45,000 children are currently living in poverty. And the fact that they live in poverty means that their development opportunities are hampered. In other words, the development of our future adult members of society has been hindered at an early stage. Even if we know this as a society, we actually very often look past it. This problem may not be in front of us every day, and we may only be aware of it in connection with very extreme cases that reach us via the media. Only then will we pay more attention to them. Against this background, I think that, when it comes to the welfare of our young people, the solidarity of older people with younger ones is somehow more emotionally determined. A good colleague, Viktor Vassilyev, also pointed out that grandparents are better off with their grandchildren than fathers and mothers with their children. Grandkids feel good about their grandparents, and this bond is very strong. When we are talking about the paradigm shift in Estonian society, it is certainly the right direction to become more aware of the potential of older people, but we should take concrete steps towards opening up this way of thinking. One step definitely is the maternity pension, i.e. the parental pension, which we will discuss in this Chamber. It is precisely for raising children that this is an increase in pension. But the other side, I dare say it here, is that paradigm shifts do not always have to take place in society as a result of revolutions. They can also be the result of thinking. This is not a new idea, but I think that the Riigikogu hall could discuss, after a while, the proposal to grant the right to vote to all citizens of the Republic of Estonia, regardless of how old they are, i.e. from birth. It's just that minors' rights to vote would be exercised by their parents. With this step, I think we would be leaning more towards the younger generation in terms of the opinion of society, as well as the consideration of politicians and political parties. I believe that then we will see very serious changes in political choices and also in political party electoral promises. I wish you all strength! I hope you take this issue very seriously. The potential that the Estonian people are hiding within us has not yet been able to make full use of it, but it is the key to our survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U48	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have questions too. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U49	Thank you. You briefly touched the stereotypes common in society. Here's my question. What do you think of the idea that the elderly are united by the world view, and precisely the view of the world, which means a passive outlook on life and a gloomy mind? To illustrate this question, I read an old gentleman's account, which is: 'People who work often ask what we do as pensioners in our time. My lady and I went to town to shop. We were only in the store for five minutes, and when we got out, the police were writing a ticket for the car. We came up and said to him, "Hello! Can't you just count on the pensioners and give us a chance? ' He ignored us, and then I told him he was a Nazi. The police stared at me and wrote me a new receipt. She called him a tyrant, and she wrote the next receipt. We were joking because it wasn't our car. It didn't concern us. We took a bus to town. The question is, you gotta have fun at our age. '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U50	Good questioner! When we talk specifically about prices, they are very different everywhere. Everything depends on the municipality and the owner who owns the particular institution. Policy has been such that the level of ownership is in place and, rather, it has increased in recent years. But the subject that we have dealt with in a wider sense concerns a very sacred matter, this concerns our constitution and the care obligations it contains in relation to our loved ones. We are talking about the same thing that the good questioner referred to: if a person has lived a full life and has children, grandchildren and others close to him, then he has contributed to society and, in fact, the Constitution states that his loved ones must support him and help him. If he doesn't have any loved ones, the municipality will come to the rescue. We have met people in our own care organisation, who also very seriously referred precisely to the real consequences of the constitutional decision-making tree that exists in life. Surely this is one thing that we must pay attention to in addition to our elderly being active, they must also be able to grow very dignified in such a place, without any economic problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U51	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I really like the idea of giving parents children's votes. For example, Liisa Pakosta and I would get 12 votes in the election, not bad. But when Andrei Hvostov started this debate a few years ago, we discussed it at home, and I discovered that one of my teenage children was a fiery advocate of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, and the other was about reform. Have you thought that at some age, a child may discover that his or her mother and father are not as wise as they seemed at first, and a family's political consensus that can be enjoyed when a child is, for example, 10 years old may not be so great? How could a mechanism be created to make the choice of a child, not of a parent, reflected in the polling station?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U53	Good questioner! That is a very correct question. Perhaps this will also give families greater interest in political issues. If there's a family as big as you are, it would be great if the election debate, the debate about worldviews were already there. I think that perhaps sometimes it is that the younger ones refresh their parents' or grandparents' thinking and the world-view debate is rather positive. Now, more seriously, that is the question of social agreement when a person is of adult age and when he can decide for himself to the end. Now there are two debates: one is the question of reducing the age of election, which I have already talked about here, and the other is that we give the parent an extra vote for our children, because our society values children. We value it so that their voice in real life is more powerful. After all, on other matters on a daily basis, the parent decides for his or her child about legal acts and all such matters. There is no distinction between the realisation of its constitutional right relating to elections. But it's only natural when things are discussed. And if the child is a teenager, maybe a few more years to wait, and if the elections are down to 16, then he can go to the IRL or Reform Party or to the Social Democrats who are on the electoral list at the time. In any case, it brings more dynamics to society and perhaps to families, and makes people think more. But thank you very much for this question. This also led me to think in another direction, the results of which may be even more positive: not only is it important that politicians and political parties need to listen more to this electorate, but also these voters themselves sometimes start debating more actively within their own group and, thanks to this, are more aware of the opportunities they have.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U54	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'm going to ask you a question similar to that of Mr. Professor. The Minister told us about older people's employment, lifelong learning and access to services. For all of us, at that time, a pleasant urban environment was looming, where it all works. In fact, the proportion of older people in rural areas is much higher than in the city. What do you think we should do specifically to make sure that everything we're talking about gets to land, scattered areas, where we have large numbers of elderly people?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your substantive and interesting presentation. It's common for your reports. My question is as follows. The laws of the countries of the European Union differ in terms of care obligations. The family's obligations to participate in welfare costs vary. There are countries where the country has a minimum share. This country is also Estonia, where it is the responsibility of children and grandchildren, and municipalities only support according to their abilities. But within Estonia, the situation is very different, the municipalities are very different. There are municipalities that do not have the opportunity to support because of a lack of money, and older people are forced to do so. Decent ageing is not possible. Care obligations often fall to people at work, mainly to women. These women will be another elderly person with a very low pension. What do you think of this problem from the point of view of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U57	There were several aspects. One aspect relates to the care obligation, which, according to the Constitution and the Family Law, is mainly the responsibility of family members in Estonia. We know that in Finland, family members do not have such an unavoidable obligation; it is a possibility for family members rather than a legal obligation for them. In my report, I also referred to the fact that we should consider whether this constitutional obligation of solidarity is absolute and, if not, try to define these limits by means of practical loopholes. I also said that the obligation of the family to provide assistance to its members should not exempt the country and municipalities from their duty to do anything to enable families to fulfil their primary responsibility, and this system would still be a failure. Rather, it is, in my opinion, a question of shared responsibility and the definition of these limits.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U58	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U59	I would first like to point out that Estonia has ratified the revised and improved Social Charter, one article of which explicitly indicates that the contracting country is obliged to take into account the burden on people with family responsibilities when pension rights, including social security rights arise. As I said earlier, the question for me is, first and foremost, how pension rights are to develop: either on the basis of a mere contribution to work or on the basis of the contribution that is made to raising children. Rather, the current situation in which the time devoted to raising children is taken into account in a very modest way in the pension system is indirectly discriminatory for parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You spoke of an increase in physical and mental distance between generations and, as a result, a loss of solidarity. We actually know that a large number of elderly people live in our country. The proportion of older people in rural areas is much higher than in urban areas. A typical situation is that young people go into town and old people stay on land. What do you think this special package of measures in society could be like to prevent old people living in the countryside from becoming the victim of a loss of solidarity because of their physical distance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U61	Thank you. First of all, let me say thank you very much for your very interesting presentation. However, I would like to ask you about intergenerational coherence. Traditionally, we are used to grandparents helping to keep their grandchildren. According to Eurobarometer data, 84% consider this to be the most important contribution of the elderly to society. Grandparents play an important role in the development of a child, also in terms of the continuity of generations. At the same time, the longer older people are working, the more active they are in social life, the less time they tend to have for this classic baby-sitting. How do you see an opportunity to maintain this bond? How would this understanding between generations last even if children found that a mother or a father could help them to look after a child rather than to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U62	It is, in itself, a question of reconciling work and family life, perhaps in an unaccustomed context. For the most part, we think about problems of reconciling work and family life in situations where parents are young people. But we might as well think about it in a context where we are talking about grandparents and caring for grandchildren. It is true that we often think about intergenerational coherence, especially in the context of grandparents' custody of grandchildren. Here's something to think about. I believe that the issue is also that such changes in the structure of society necessitate the development of certain services, including childcare.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U63	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U64	Thank you! Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very interesting presentation. I agree that social policy must adapt to changes in population structure. At the moment, however, Estonian society is expecting a parental pension. Would you explain how, in the light of your presentation, solidarity between generations could be expressed specifically in the idea of parental pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U65	I would say that, for me, the idea of parental pension relates primarily to what we consider to be the basis for the formation of pension rights. In other words, whether we consider pension only according to a person's contribution to work or whether we also take into account periods when a person is absent from the labour market for one reason or another. And one important reason for this is certainly the time devoted to raising children. This is the period when social tax has been paid for the parent on a rather small amount so far. So the question for me is, first and foremost, the basis on which pension rights are to develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U66	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U67	Thank you very much for your interesting presentation. I was pleased to hear your answer to one of the questions in this Chamber today. In the hall, the claim was that Estonian society was rather hostile and unsolidary and that it viewed the elderly population differently. However, you pointed out, referring to specific figures, that quite the contrary: respect for the older generation is universal in society, which is also in the ear when walking around and listening to the people. However, my question relates to my predecessor's, the subject of parental pension. The President has mentioned that he does not like such a non-solidary pension calculation system because it discriminates against those who are not parents. I take this opportunity, Mr Professor, to ask: do you see an important constitutional offense when parents have the right to a pension supplement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U68	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U69	Thank you, good questioner! It is one of those probably thousands, and perhaps even tens and hundreds of thousands of stories, which show that this stereotype may not be true. That is my personal opinion, but I believe that, to some extent, the history from which we come will play a role in creating the intergenerational barrier. Families have been crushed for political reasons and perhaps later communication has proved difficult. The whole mentality that was injected into us during the last 50 years was not such that the older generation was valued in the same way as the new generation that was to come and be young. The latter must have been very progressive. However, the years after the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Estonia have certainly been affected, when everyone had to complete a survival course. The basic values concerning freedoms were very well in place, but perhaps there was not enough time for conservative values, including family values. Everyone had to deal with survival, reorientation, real implementation of new values. I hope that current and future generations will have greater value for the link between generations. I believe that, from the point of view of maintaining the identity of the Estonian people, it is vital in the long term that each of us know the story of our family. And that we have time and that our children have the wisdom to ask their grandparents at the right time what our family's story is. If these stories are listened to at a pretty early age, there will be at least an elementary respect or respect for older people in the nursery. But I've also met a lot of very good people with a sense of humor and nice elderly people who have a good time making fun of their old age and getting refreshed to get on with their lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U70	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U71	Thank you. Good waitress! My question also comes to the other end of the generational solidarity and the human life cycle, or children. In society, as you mentioned in your presentation, there is an idea in the air to give children their voices. But when do you think society will agree to any proposal to vote for a child? Are we prepared for such a paradigm shift?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U72	Good questioner! I think we're ready for the discussion. We are ready to discuss this. When we think about real needs and the reasons why this could be done, it is not just meant as an interesting legal experiment. There are very serious consequences that can change the paradigm. In fact, the paradigm is not changing, but the paradigm is changing, and it is precisely in the direction that we give citizens the opportunity to realise their most fundamental right, regardless of their age. So, in fact, we bring to Estonian society an extra 250,000 and 270000 additional political votes, which are realized by the parents of these children, but these parents are also responsible for the welfare of their children and are concerned about their development opportunities. These parents actually raise these children, care for them daily, and know very well about the problems that affect them. I imagine that if such a number of people, such a very specific lobby group, come to the political world in Estonian society, we must also take more account of this group when making our decisions in this Chamber. It's not a couple of thousand people. The second proposal is what young people have been talking about in order to give the right to vote from the age of 16. This is something that has actually been being discussed for years, but I have a feeling that maybe society is now more prepared to analyze things more calmly, without prejudice. And why not? Of course, the granting of electoral rights also involves giving all kinds of responsibilities, and I think that Estonian society is still conservative enough in this respect. This discussion is up, but one does not rule out the other. I hope that the Riigikogu will start debates on this subject in this Chamber already in its current composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U73	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U74	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I must say that today's debate has been very interesting and thorough and also important. Thank you, too, for the overview you discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. My specific question is: in the Committee on Social Affairs, did any specific proposals, such as proposals to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to other ministries, be reached when discussing this issue? Professor Lauri Leppik also stressed that social policy and sectoral policies must definitely change along with changes in population structure. Did any concrete proposals come up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U75	Good questioner! Our goal was to bring this issue to this hall. The Committee on Social Affairs did not formulate direct, very specific proposals, but during the reviews we listened to, proposals were made. They concerned, for example, geriatric treatment and the quality of treatment for elderly people ♪ a very specific system of implementation. We have fixed these proposals and we have forwarded them. I can say that one of the results of raising this issue is that the Ministry of Social Affairs sent us a document three days ago, which has been awaited for a very long time and which the Minister of Social Affairs was talking about here today. This is the basic document of the 2013/20 strategy for active ageing, which sets out the strategy's objectives as well as the timetable for progress on the subject. I think that our biggest mistake in the last few decades, rather than a mistake, has been that we have solved individual cases in different areas, but have not been able to develop a longer-term strategy that would oblige or affect all our ministries and agencies to act in the right direction. It is not enough for us to take just one decision or another. I can give you an example on the other side of this same life line, the same subject that I have talked about here a lot, children and families. At the end of last year, the government also took a part in the Social Affairs Committee on the development plan for children and families 2012 to 2020. This is a very specific development plan, which sets out very concrete measures, which are also behind an operational programme with specific figures. According to this, the Estonian state should proceed. I think that a great many of the problems relating to children's development opportunities, including child poverty and family opportunities, should be resolved in the course of implementing this strategy. However, raising today's issue could result in the development of an active ageing strategy and the establishment of a timetable. I hope that this strategy will be adopted in this Chamber in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U76	Andres Jalak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U77	Thank you. Good performer! My question is about nursing homes for the elderly, which, at the end of the day, also combines solidarity between generations. In fact, we know that the cost of a place in a nursing home far exceeds the amount of a pension. As a rule, those who have children cover the difference between children, those who do not have, the difference is covered by the local government. But it is often the case that these first years have been decent taxpayers for 50 or more years, while others often have an antisocial lifestyle. To them, the municipality pays the difference. My question is, don't you see injustice here? Have you even discussed this problem in the Commission, this price gap?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U78	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 12.37 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U79	Thank you very much, dear colleague Margus Tsahkna, for his presentation and for answering questions. Let's start the negotiations now. First of all, as a representative of the Group of the Liisa-Ly Pakosta Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I would like to ask for the floor's colleague, Mrs Liisa-Ly Pakosta.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U80	Thank you very much. If possible, I would ask the respected active ageing for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U81	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U82	Our great-grandfathers would probably have been rather surprised if they had heard the title of today's debate, which probably should have been translated into their familiar Estonian language. In Estonian it would sound like a useful point in communicating and caring between older and younger people. To remind you that in the pulpit, it sounds like there is potential for solidarity between generations. The more philosophical question is, of course, how in such a short time have we come to such models of thought that we have to practice generations as we have to do better with each other. Elderly people really want to work and be as active and respected members of society as any other member of society. There's nothing weird about that. Working for an elderly person is the basis for social cohesion, as the Minister rightly pointed out. Margus Tsahkna stated that grandchildren and grandparents often get along better than parents and children. Older people have a crucial role to play in achieving our most important goal, i.e. improving the demographic situation. We have probably all been personally exposed to this extremely valuable contribution. Is there anyone in this hall who hasn't been helped by an older person for an hour? Probably not. Lauri Leppik also said that we are no longer thinking so much today that there are grandparents to resolve parenting and family issues, and that opportunities should be found in this regard. There you go! If a working grandmother or grandpa would like to help his daughter or son in the care of a sick child at work, they can do so only during their out-of-work time or on unpaid leave. A sick child can only be held during working hours by a younger person, by law, his or her parent. Sounds like an illogical restriction. This is an illogical restriction, which is also one of the many intergenerational barriers that we ourselves have created in legislative terms. Let's take a look at the one example I've taken from the Family Policy Programme of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which you can find online at www.irl.ee family. Point 47 of this is exactly what we are talking about. We are a party supporting family values and it is therefore very important to us that older people are not excluded from the family. In practice, however, our legislation does so in many cases. Having dealt with the same issue for a long time, I can say that all the other parties have modestly supported the proposed changes. Perhaps today's debate will contribute to a better understanding of each other, because the solution is simple in itself. If a child falls ill, then the family could decide for itself how and who cares about the family for as long as the day is covered. At present, the sick person is entitled to care allowance for up to 14 consecutive days in order to compensate for the time taken to care for the child. The amount of care benefit is calculated by the employer on the basis of the social tax paid for you in the previous calendar year. The average of the calendar day's income is multiplied by the number of days on the maintenance page, 80% of which is reimbursed, plus income tax. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association are of the opinion that a child urgently needs to be nursed and assisted by a person close to him to he/she in order to he/she recover. The principle of law that it is also compensated, albeit only 80%, is also reasonable in our view. At the same time, a child's illness is almost always unexpected, sometimes only a few minutes before his or her parent goes to work. In addition to the concern for the health of the child, the mother and father also have to cope with their work and other responsibilities. And for example, a two - week break in work has an impact on both pay and parents' career prospects. The existence of small children can also reduce the chances of getting a job at all. If the family could decide for themselves, as proposed by the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, who would stay home with the sick child for 14 consecutive days, this concern would be a significant relief. In the event of a granddaughter's illness, it might be possible for grandparents at work to stay on the maintenance sheet. As the statistics reported by the Minister show, we have a large number of grandparents at work. Paragraph 51 (4) (1) and (3) of the Health Insurance Act and subsequent related points should be amended. The additional cost of the amendment to the state budget would be completely lacking, as the care allowance paid per day would remain more or less the same. The principles of calculating the amount of care benefit would not change; only the necessary number of days would be made more flexible by the adults of the family. We would not be the first country in the world to introduce such a system. According to surveys in Sweden, Sweden, the country with the happiest parents, has such an opportunity. In the near future, the country's tax revenues would increase as the possibility of combining work and family life more flexibly reduces unemployment among families with children. There would also be a strong incentive for employers to employ parents of children under 12 years of age. I repeat: general satisfaction would also be increased. As stated above, according to the Eurobarometer survey, 84% of people attach particular importance to the participation of grandmothers and grandfathers in raising grandchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U83	Absolutely agree! I will also bring two important indicators: 84% of the Estonian elderly contribute to caring for their children; 70% of the Estonian elderly support their families with money, especially young people. So I agree with your statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U84	Thank you. I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Pikhof, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Unfortunately, my colleague is not in the Chamber, so he can't come here. I would like to ask Mrs Maret Maripuu to speak as a representative of the Reform Party Group. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Society is in the midst of major changes because people's average life expectancy is the longest ever. The people of Estonia have never lived as long as they do now. All stages of life have been extended: childhood, youth, adulthood, old age. A Eurobarometer survey recently asked Europeans how old they are and how old they are. The Estonians, in their opinion, are quite European averages. A person is no longer a young man at the age of 42 and grows old at the age of 62. The fact is that we are used to looking at an ageing society as a problem. We are thinking of the increasing pressure on the social security system, the increasing need for care, etc. The second option is to view the older population as suggested by Professor Leppik, i.e. not so far the best-used resource, including the labour market. The Eurobarometer survey mentioned above showed that discrimination against older people is quite clearly perceived in the labour market across Europe. In Estonia, too, people have expressed the same concern. At the beginning of the period of independence, the flag letter was that only young people could succeed, which is because they have no experience. A young person was as a mirror image of a young country that had become free again, everything was novel, to try and test had to be done a lot. Such an attitude may have been justified in some areas, but the mechanical acceptance of the attitude resulted in many bitter people and skills lost to society. At that time, the provisions came from the Employment Contracts Act and the Civil Service Act, which allowed the termination of the contract solely on grounds of age. To date, these provisions are in the past. Now older workers often see the added value of experience, maturity and flexibility. An older colleague is a mentor to a younger man in this hall. It doesn't sound like a good word. Ladies and gentlemen, Learning and education are important keywords in the labour market. Education is the most secure guarantee that ensures better living and better coping regardless of age. In Estonia, people with higher levels of education are more active in the labour market. The labour market survey of Statistics Estonia shows that older people with primary and primary education had 30.3% employment in 2010, 53.5% for older people with vocational and secondary education and 65.6% for older people with secondary and secondary education. It is sad to note that for 20 years the Republic of Estonia has been unable to create an educational system that takes account of the changes and needs of society. We have specialties where youth growth is slower than the need for a market. The above-mentioned study shows that the most elderly are engaged in manufacturing, education, retail and wholesale trade, health care and social care. Moreover, when comparing older people's employment to that of the younger population, it appears that the differences between education and health and social welfare are the greatest. In these areas, there are more older people than young people. Given the already high labour shortages in these areas, it is important to ensure that workers in these areas continue to grow and make every effort to keep older workers active for as long as possible. The key word here is training, and older workers need to be provided with the necessary refresher training and qualifications to adapt to the new circumstances. Older people in Estonia are already quite active when compared to other European indicators, but a small resource is still. In 2010, we had a employment rate of approximately 54% between the ages of 55 and 64, which was higher than the EU average, while it was significantly lower than in Sweden, where it is more than 70%. So we need to think more and more about retraining. When we talk about retraining, we usually think about workers who are either in the middle of their careers or at the beginning of their careers, less often or not at all to those who are nearly 60 or above. Here too, there is great potential. The fact that more and more older people continue to work beyond the right to retire means a change not only in the labour market but also in family life. Traditionally, we are used to grandparents caring for grandchildren. This is still an important role in Estonia. According to Eurobarometer data, 84% consider this to be the most important contribution of the elderly to society. Indeed, grandparents are extremely important in the development of a child, even in terms of the continuity of generations. At the same time, many parents are familiar with a situation where grandparents are constantly busy, work and are socially active. The more older people work, the less time they have to take care of their grandchildren in a classic sense. A balance needs to be found here too. This is our current reality, which means that there is an increased need for different services, which will also help to better combine work and family life for different generations. Good listeners! We are a small country with no right to ignore its own people or to throw someone aside. We need to understand that every person, regardless of his or her age, is extremely important in society. Only old and young people together can keep society sustainable, both brave and age-friendly balance is needed. It is important to be able to take into account people's skills, opportunities and needs, to adapt jobs, to introduce different forms of flexible work, such as the possibility of working at home, working part-time or participating in various projects. We need to provide more support to reduce the burden of care, we need to provide training and advice to acquire or refresh our skills, and most importantly, to encourage people to participate in our common lives, so that the Estonian state can develop and that everyone here feels necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U86	Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. I would like to ask Mr Viktor Vassilyev to speak as a representative of the Centre Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U87	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and esteemed guests who are on the balcony watching us! Thus, the International Year of Active Ageing is under the keywords 'employment' and 'lifelong learning','services', 'inclusion' and 'voluntaryity'. It's all very important. After all, the older generation is especially important to all of us as a bearer of our history. If it weren't for our grandmothers-grandfathers, we'd know our past only from history books, but history books will be rewritten about every ten years. It is generally known that the winner will write a new history. But what has actually happened is known by grandmothers and grandfathers who tell us about it as long as we're little and we listen. So what happened in history and our folk traditions, fairy tales and old poems and songs pass from generation to generation, so our culture persists and so we ourselves remain a nation in this land. But let's take the word for employment now. They say you see, Estonians are such strange people that pensioners want to work. In countries with old culture, they do not want to work, they want to retire and they want to rest. But our pensioners do not want to work, they are forced to work because they simply cannot manage their pension. When we talk about lifelong learning, it is not about teaching a new profession to a 70-year-old. Rather, it is a social task to make interesting his leisure time. And that's why we have third-generation universities. But if someone retired goes to medical school, for example, well, it's still a waste of resources, how many years he's been working in his new specialty after he's finished it. Teaching a complex specialty is expensive enough for fun. Now for the services. Well, we can talk about services here, but what's really going on with them? Post offices are lost, pharmacies are lost. An elderly person is accustomed to socializing politely in this sense, writing by hand, weting the envelope edges with his tongue, and putting a stamp on them. It's politeness, he may not do it because he can't handle any new information technologies. For example, the President is still sending us a letter of invitation on paper. He'll sign there, and we'll get it in the envelope with the stamp on it. It's basic courtesy. Of course, health and social services are the most important for the elderly. They're what they are. One of the most important health services that should be provided to older people is geriatric help. However, we have even lost our specialty of geriatrics. In 1996, by ministerial decree, it was withdrawn from the medical profession list. Then we had the great enthusiasm for freedom that now we have to go on, bet on the young people that these old people are on their feet, they don't even deserve medical attention. That is how these services are done. The Minister of Social Affairs tells us from this remote control that in eight years the volume of home nursing services has increased tenfold. Ten years ago, this service was just set up, so ten years ago it wasn't at all. It is as good as comparing the number of mobile phones now and in 1913. Progress, of course, is huge! Of course, we would like our elderly people to be linked to younger generations. Yeah, biologically, they certainly are. As has been said many times in this Chamber, however, there is a very strong link between grandmothers and grandkids. The average generation is working, he's got his own problems, he's got leasing, he's got bills to pay, there's no time to deal properly with raising children. If the little punks have some fun questions, they'll go to Grandma's grandpa because they have time and time to explain, and there's some knowledge to pass on. This is a very nice bond, and it should, of course, be supported. But when we talk about the coherence of generations, we must inevitably talk not only about the old but also about young people. What have we done for young people in this Chamber of the Riigikogu? The Centre Party has submitted various drafts, such as for each child free of charge for school meals, it has passed the first reading and has failed to take account of the child's income support. We have proposed exemption from social tax and we have proposed that people with disabilities and young people be able to work as quickly as possible, so that the state pays the social tax for them. This bill was rejected. This is a topic that the coalition does not want to hear about anymore. But social cohesion also means that we have social solidarity. Very many support systems in our country are built on solidarity, such as health insurance. It is quite clear that young people who go to work pay for it, but they still consume more when they are older and sicker. Yeah, it's solidarity. Pension insurance is also solidarity-based: at present, older people are paid a pension using the tax money of their employees. Unfortunately, there's enough of this pension to keep you alive. What we are talking about is that in other parts of the world, pensioners do all kinds of volunteer work, and the keywords are "involuntarily" and "involuntarily." In the case of social services that function as a system in other European countries, much of what we do not have in Estonia is voluntary work. And that's not because we're lazy or stupid. We just don't have time to do any volunteer work. People have trouble earning their daily bread, and if you don't have enough for yourself, what you're going to share with others, whether it's a job or some other way of betting. You know, today's event really looks like Grandma's anniversary. Grandma turned 80. We come together and bring him flowers he doesn't eat, we don't give him presents, he has everything. We give beautiful speeches, how well grandma has always been and how beautiful grandma is and how kind grandma is and how good grandma is, we wish her strong health and long life. But then it's over, we're gonna split up, and we're not gonna think about Grandma anymore. And next time, we'll meet Grandma at her funeral. I hope we don't do that. Coherence between generations means that young people must also be contributed so that they grow into happy old people who live happily in their happy country. It takes a lot of work every day, even in this house. Good health and long life to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U88	Thank you. I would like to ask my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Active ageing means having good health in old age and participating in society as a full member, more satisfied with your work, more independent in everyday life and more active as a citizen. According to the Eurobarometer survey, 65% of the Estonian population think that older than 55 years of age should benefit most as workers, but 73% believe that they can contribute to caring for sick family members, and 84% to raise grandchildren. Hence the political choice of whether to deal with childcare issues or put unpaid work on older people's shoulders, or to consider how to calculate a pension for non-remunerated care obligations at home. Of course, these are attitudes that do not quite reflect reality, as more and more grandparents are in their 40s and 50s and actively in the labour market. The ageing of society means that they must be kept there as long as possible, otherwise we will soon face a shortage of labour. Since mental capacity in old age depends more on what abilities a person had when he was young than so much on his age, we need to think now about slowing down the growth of the under-educated group, bringing them back to the education system and making lifelong learning a reality. Our ageing workforce should be as well educated as possible, and there will certainly be fewer people who cannot cope, who have health problems and who need care. Investment in health care and continuing education is not less important. If 81% of Estonians think that a person must be able to work beyond the official retirement age, this practice must be encouraged. It is a pleasure that our pensioners do not lose their pension, which is a major exception in Europe. 66% of Estonians take the view that there should not be a fixed mandatory retirement age at all. The same is true of the Social Democrats, who have also come up with their idea here in the Riigikogu. This means that greater consideration must be given to the more flexible possibilities of retirement, which would give people greater freedom of choice. For example, everyone else would like to have the opportunity to work part-time instead of immediately retiring, to break off all relationships with a working collective and still professionally interesting work. Looking ahead, it is important to be more aware that older people face different obstacles in the labour market. According to Eurobarometer surveys, for example, they are a lack of flexibility in work organisation, an impossible reduction in working time over time, the exclusion of older workers from vocational training and the prejudiced attitudes of employers. Ros Altmann, an expert in the London School of Economics pension system, considers that the main issue is not how to care for the elderly, but how people work as they age. We are not facing a pension crisis; we are facing a retirement crisis. Retirement should be a process rather than an event, a journey rather than a destination. It is therefore very important to be able to work part-time in order to have more flexible forms of work so that retirement can take several years. A targeted change in society's attitude towards older people, changing myths and prejudices about the elderly, often attracted by them themselves. The school and the media must also make a targeted change in the widely used stereotyped perceptions. It is also essential to target employers by introducing both recommendations and best international practices to keep older people in work. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U90	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U91	Employers must also be informed of methods that reduce their risks, which may result from the need to take into account the additional responsibilities of workers due to their age. For example, adapting jobs and work schedules to meet the needs of older workers, giving extra holidays which would not mean costs for the employer, creating the necessary working conditions for older workers, etc. Employers should take into account age diversity when staffing. Opportunities should be agreed with the social partners to help keep older people on the labour market longer, such as the use of older people as mentors, advisors and trainers in collective groups. Basically, it would be necessary to develop the basis for determining pay that would allow not only the ICT skills to be assessed and valued, but also the knowledge and experience to be valued. You should learn from a different perspective to look at our artificial environment - how it responds to the needs of older people. Keeping older people on the labour market requires more active and inclusive labour market policies. Measures to bring retired people back into the labour market may soon be needed to alleviate the growing shortage of work. How, though, can we prepare people for longer working lives? This concerns the ideologies offered by both the education system and the media, how to change the way in which people's fundamental rights, non-discrimination, human dignity are understood when the perception that older people are a burden to society has been amplified up to now. Nor would it be good if the political texts would only make it sound that the problem is with older people in need of help. Let's keep thinking. After all, the services market and new jobs depend on it. In the longer term, the number of jobs associated with the provision of care services to older people will increase. This raises the question of whether the education system is ready for this. If we could control our own texts and messages, it might be easier to demand a change in the way we think, which has so far been introduced by both school education and the media: the old man is ugly, his memory is weakening, his senses are dulling, he is not beautiful to look at either. Perhaps the inevitability to take greater account of the elderly will help us to get rid of the current framing, confrontation and categorization. A youth - centered world is about to change, but there is no need to fear the elderly. Just as there is no need to fear that they will have greater weight among voters. So perhaps more life experiences, less risks, and more goodwill are the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U92	Mr Margus, I would like to ask for a brief answer now, because the time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-19_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question also relates to jobs. By way of introduction, I would like to say that, like you, I am moving around Estonia. We meet very different people, young people and parents. When I meet older people, I have rarely heard about the opportunities for older people to have a job and their place in employment at all. Rather, older people are worried about young people because young people are family creators, young people are domestic creators. I have also often heard that older people seem to give up their jobs for young people. Do you agree with me that the key to solving all these problems is jobs, whether in the city or in the country? Because jobs provide income, they provide security, they do not create competition as much as they create solidarity between young and old.
