ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! There's 40 comms registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U2	Let's get to the first question. Please, Mr Pikhof, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U3	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Many of the kindergartens built in the 1980s are single-room kindergartens, which means that these groups have an average area of 60 square metres. Half of it is under furniture, and children often have only one square meter of space to play and participate in their studies. On the pict of teachers in Tallinn, one teacher with a slogan "Tartu kindergartens like the specks of Tallinn!" '. This is very vivid in the situation of single-room day care centres. They're really like snails in a box. What are the standards of the premises currently to be applied in the child care establishments that have received a training permit before 2010? It has been said that these standards are foreseen to apply until 2030.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U4	Please, there's one minute to question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U5	The standards established by the government must be implemented. And these standards have certainly been put in place by the government. If you have a greater interest, you will find these norms on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs, I hope, and also among government decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U6	I would like to ask the first point to be clarified, Mr Pikhof. One minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U7	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! In fact, there are no standards. Health protection requirements for pre-school children's premises, buildings, premises, furnishings, indoor climate and maintenance must be met only by 2030, but in the meantime the vacuum will remain. I still have a question: which standards are you talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U8	All buildings have been built during the Republic of Estonia according to the construction standards in force. And even before Estonia was occupied, the Soviet Union was subject to quite strict construction standards. According to the rules, the kindergartens you speak about must also have been built. Once again, the Republic of Estonia has established construction standards for kindergartens. They will certainly also regulate the area which must remain in one child's playroom, and the area that is provided in the bedroom. These standards also concern air change and everything else that ordinary building standards regulate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U9	A second point of clarification, Mr Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U10	In fact, that is not the case. Currently, there may be 24 children in this same 60 square metre day care room, and half of it is under furniture, as I said before. Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U11	If you speak with such conviction about kindergarten rooms of 60 square metres, please state the name of the kindergarten. I have once been mayor of Tartu, I know more or less these kindergartens, and I am still well aware of their situation. If there is a particular problem in a particular kindergarten, name the place where we try to solve the problem, even though it is the competence of the local government, not the central government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U12	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U13	Thank you. Prime Minister! The longest queues and the poorest kindergartens in Estonia are probably in the capital of Tallinn. At the same time, the city of Tallinn operates free public transport. Politics is the art of making choices. How do you feel: is there a bigger problem with access to public transport in Tallinn or is there a bigger problem with kindergartens in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U14	Public transport could certainly be organised much better in Tallinn than it is currently organised. The Government of the Republic has decided to give the City of Tallinn a billion kroons to organise public transport better in the old money so that at least one line has new trams and there are no more 25-year-old trams that we now travel. But your comment on the shortage of kindergarten places in Tallinn is appropriate and it is also very appropriate in terms of investment shortages. During the crisis, the city of Tallinn reduced its investment in kindergartens and the sums released towards the development of urban television, which is certainly not appropriate. In commenting on the order of the kindergarten, I would also say that these queues are very different in Estonia. In some municipalities, children are registered from birth and therefore the queues seem longer. It would be right to take into account the number of children in the queues by whether or not the deadline has arrived, whether or not the child has received a day-care position at the desired time. This gives the impression that children have been in line since birth, even though they want to be put in kindergarten at, say, three years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U15	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U16	The next question is for my colleague, Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, the Minister of Agriculture, to Mrs Tuksole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! We have not talked for a long time about the common agricultural policy and the financial perspective. Some time ago, you promised to start bilateral negotiations with ministers from other countries, which would constitute a very good lobby in the interests of Estonia. Please tell me which ministers you have already met and how your negotiations have gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U18	Thank you for your question. Indeed, work must also be done within the framework of bilateral meetings to clarify their positions and find out what other Member States really want and what their expectations are. To date, I have also met bilaterally with agriculture ministers from around half of the countries of the European Union in addition to the Council meetings. These are, of course, our closest neighbours, Finland, Sweden, Latvia and Lithuania, as well as all the major countries in the European Union, then Great Britain, France, Germany, plus Belgium and Ireland. Ireland will chair in the first half of 2013 and certainly at that time very important decisions will be taken with a view to the next period. Further meetings with Luxembourg and Danish agriculture ministers have been agreed in the near future. I believe these meetings have been useful. Although I have become clearer about the positions of other Member States, I have also been able to explain Estonia's views. I dare say that in the Council of Agriculture Ministers there is a willingness to redistribute direct payments more vigorously and to equalise more than the European Commission has proposed in its original draft. That is the opinion I have developed from these bilateral negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U19	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U20	Thank you very much. You've had a lot of time to make appointments. However, I still have an interest in the way in which the proposal that Estonia will receive payments per hectare will be 90% of the European Union average. How is this viewed in detail, and which countries will support us in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U21	90% is the proposal proposed by the Commission. No Member State should in the future have a future annual figure of less than 90% of the EU average. As far as I know, no Member State has challenged this objective. Everyone agrees with this objective, differences of opinion are only about when and how to reach this goal. The Commission's proposal is to move one third closer to this goal in the next budget period, i.e. 2014/20. It's obviously too slow a movement that doesn't satisfy us. Estonia shares the view of all those Member States that are our partners in the future, i.e. whose subsidies are lower than the average and for whom this rate is also not acceptable. Redistribution is a complex process. It is now clear that this kind of money will not come into the common agricultural policy, so that subsidies from countries with lower levels of support can be levelled down. The money must be reallocated, i.e. taken away from the beneficiaries of the larger grants and given to the beneficiaries of the smaller grants. This makes the redistribution process very painful. Very simplistic and generalized, it can be said that all those who are taken away are opposed, and all those who gain more are in favour. So this is a very simplistic way of saying it. But as I said, everyone agrees with the general objective. The solution will be found in disputes during this year and at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U22	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U23	Thank you, Madam President. In any case, I wish you every success at these meetings. But in the autumn, a delegation from the Riigikogu was in the French Parliament, where the French Minister for Agriculture very categorically emphasised that not one cent of his is willing to change these subsidies. I wonder how you and the French Minister were meeting. Did you leave as friends or what France answered you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U24	Yes, I met the French Minister during the last Council meeting in March, and we left as friends. The French minister is very busy right now, he is the head of the Sarkozy election campaign. Of course, he is very busy with this, and his message must also be taken in this context. However, during our bilateral negotiations, the French Minister's position was not so rigid and he was prepared to discuss this issue. Of course, the French also have their own interests in the common agricultural policy. When it comes to redistribution, France and many other southern European countries have specific interests, such as wine and sugar production, the maintenance of wine-growing rights and aid. That is what the French minister acknowledged. This is, in fact, the subject of negotiations, and that is what he has made very clear. The common interest must be found in the Council's work. So the French colleague was not so rigid that there was no point in talking about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U25	I would like to ask you a question registered on the ground, Mr Kalvi Tough.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, I congratulate you on the work you and your colleagues have done in Europe. Tomorrow, the Committee on Rural Affairs will meet with colleagues from the Latvian and Lithuanian Parliaments and discuss the same issue. But here's my question. What is your opinion as a result of these meetings: what could be the result of what we are getting to? What are the percentages, and with what number are the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U27	This, I dare say, is even more complicated than weather forecasting. At the same time, it is not only abstractly spoken, it is not everyone who has added-diluted, and there has been talk of a certain percentage. Currently, direct payments for Estonian farmers account for 45% of the average level in the European Union, and should reach 58% by the end of the next period, on a proposal from the Commission. The orientation or outcome that has been discussed and could be real is 75% of the European Union average level for Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The Commission has proposed an increase from EUR 117 per hectare to EUR 156 per hectare in the next period, while 75% would amount to about EUR 200 per hectare, which is actually very large money for the Estonian state. The result of this dispute, or victory for the Estonian state, would be about 300 million euros. It's a lot of money. What's finally agreed, I don't know. What I have just expressed is anticipation or prognosis. We are not allowed that at all. There is still a lot of work to be done for this. And in fact, the final decisions will not be taken in the Council of Agriculture Ministers, but will certainly also be discussed by the ECOFIN and the Council, where the final decisions will be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U28	And now three more questions registered on the spot. Let's start with colleague Tarmo Tammes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Agriculture! How far is the solution for specially labelled fuel used in agriculture?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U30	We are in active negotiations with the Ministry of Finance in the framework of the preparation of next year's budget. In doing so, the existing tax laws will also be reviewed. So far, we have not reached the unanimous conclusion that a new system to stop selling fuel specially labelled to farmers and to switch to aid from the state budget, i.e. the subsidy that was in force ten years ago in a few years, would be simpler, better, more understandable and more sustainable than the present one. Once we come up with a solution, we're going to apply it. I'm afraid I can't tell you from what point of view this is. I very much doubt that this will be possible from 1 January 2013. However, it cannot be said that we will certainly not implement it, because negotiations are under way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U31	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The great victory, the EUR 300 million you have just talked about, is that the money should come from agricultural subsidies. But I'm still interested in some sort of more precise noise. Otherwise we're talking about winning, but when it comes, we don't know. And that's just as ridiculous as talking about getting into the five richest European Unions or countries in the world in 15 years. Could you give me a little more time to figure out when this could all be happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U33	I have not said that this EUR 300 million is in our hands. Don't take it like that! I spoke in my reply about what we want and what we need to achieve in a realistic way. But I dare say that victory is already an offer from the Commission. The Commission's offer, which does not satisfy us, is a win in itself. I mean that, in this period, if we received around EUR 500 million in direct payments for agriculture from the European Union's common budget, the Commission's offer is that we should receive EUR 900 million in the next budget period, from 2014 to 2020. It is already a very big real victory that we have in hand, and it will come true from 1 January 2014. Support levels reach a maximum of EUR 156 in 2017. EUR 156 per hectare is the Commission's proposal and will remain at the same level until 2020. These are specific years. And at least at the same rate, the aid would increase according to our proposals, but the limit is not EUR 156 per hectare, but EUR 200 per hectare. This is our effort, and I am talking about the period from 2014 to 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U34	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U35	Thank you, Mr President. I will continue in the spirit of the previous questions. I am very interested in whether we have friends and supporters on the issue of regulating agricultural subsidies in the European Union, for example Germany. It was an accident for me to be in the European Parliament when the Committee discussed the possibilities of reforming agricultural subsidies. And there Germany declared that their Minister for Agriculture understands that the Baltic States are being treated unequally, and agrees, if other countries agree, with some of Germany's subsidy for the Baltic States. But only on condition that other countries do. On my question, is this the politeest long-shot I've ever heard in my life, homely laughter broke out in the hall, and then I got patted on my shoulder: you got it. Let me get this straight. Is Germany an ally on this issue? Is that even a problem? I'd like your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U36	Germany is our ally. I can say this very clearly today, because the Germans have confirmed through the Minister's mouth in the Council that they support a more vigorous redistribution and faster equalisation. There are other Member States that have said so and who are actually losing because of redistribution. For example, the Swedes have also said that they consider it necessary to have a more equal approach to direct payments, even though they too would be one of the losers in redistribution. So not everything is based on quite simple mathematics that there is to win or lose, many look at the whole as such and are based on the principles of the European Union, on equal treatment, on a common internal market. But your question was about the Germans. Yes, I dare say that the Germans are our supporters, and the Germans have a pretty strong influence in shaping the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U37	Thank you very much, Minister for Agriculture. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U38	Next question, please, from my colleague Rannar Vassilyev to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U39	Thank you. Estonia has often boasted with its low debt burden. If we look at the debt ratio in 2011, it was 6%, by 2013 it will almost double, or it will reach 11,3%, if we believe the Ministry of Finance's spring economic forecast. Why don't you name the reasons that double our debt burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U40	You are certainly aware that the debt burden does not necessarily mean spent money. This also means investment and now, as the biggest change, our contribution to the EFSF. The EFSF has not been wasted, spent or even paid off, but statistically the loans issued by the EFSF are really in debt. We will also end the limitation on the local government loan if we do not change this decision, and it will also have to write a forecast in some way. And we also have state foundations that invest. That's one estimate, we'll see by the end of the day. But the government has not changed its policy in the sense that it would take a bank loan to cover current expenses, which is also recommended in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U41	Please, Rannar Vassilyev, the first point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U42	Thank you. So far, we have greatly improved the budgetary position of the social security funds, i.e. the sickness fund and the unemployment fund. In essence, this means that their income has exceeded costs, including in the unemployment fund, which means that the unemployment fund's tax has been higher than it should have been to compensate for the necessary costs. The Ministry of Finance expects the same trend in the future, despite the fact that the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions to 3% has been taken into account in 2013. Is it a government financial policy principle that unemployment insurance as one labour tax should be higher than what is needed to cover the necessary expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U43	The government has yet to make final decisions, but unemployment has often been the subject of discussions between us and, in principle, the stance has been taken that unemployment insurance is charged by law at 3%. We would actually like this rate of payment to be set in the future by the Riigikogu, because it is a very clear forced payment of people and a decision that has a very strong financial impact. It would be nice if the Riigikogu supported it. We have taken the view that reserves for at least two years of crisis should be in reserve at the unemployment fund. This is the most volatile exit of the country when the crisis comes. We hope that there will be no such thing, but if it does, it will come very quickly and, in the middle of the financial year, reacting in the way we had to react last time would not be desirable. We should not lower the payment rate at the wrong time, and when the crisis comes, we should probably deploy reserves very quickly. Unemployment insurance payments are very volatile and therefore a contribution to reserves has been knowingly made. And that doesn't improve the position, that's the position.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U44	Please, Mr Vasilyev, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U45	Thank you. The prognosis is that, in inflation, we will have the largest component of housing costs this year and in the future, perhaps as your coalition partner feels more linguistically than your home expenses. What is the Ministry of Finance planning to do to reduce home expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U46	The Ministry of Finance has little direct influence on home expenses. Only some expenditures in the state budget are likely to be reflected here, for example, in investments related to home heating. But it's more of an indirect effect of keeping finances in order. The inflation instruments held by the government are quite clearly known. First of all, the financial order! Loose fiscal policies would increase inflation, and that is what we do not want and do not want to go to this government. Secondly, the regulation of monopoly management. Also, of course, establishing the remaining administrative prices and promoting overall competition and, of course, wage policy. To try to define the part of the Ministry of Finance there is, in my opinion, not practical at the moment. Those are the known things. If they are in place and well done, the reasons for inflation must be sought elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U47	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I wanted to ask you about the debt, but I already got the answer. I would now touch on issues such as the ESM and the EFSF, because there was also talk about them in the debate on the economic forecast. Here's my question. If Estonia starts to pay another 30 million euros to the ESM, or the European Stability Mechanism, in addition to 30 million euros, will this money come from reserves? And how quickly will Estonia's public debt increase when the EFSF is paid out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U49	The impact of the EFSF has already been projected. If you want to be more specific, I can look up these payout schedules, but they are known, and the EFSF is rather an endless fact. As far as the ESM is concerned, I must stress that we still have court battles ahead of us. And the battles of the Riigikogu are also ahead, and I would not like to make promises that are contrary to the Constitution on behalf of the government. However, I believe that both battles will end positively for the Estonian state and also for Europe. In that case, we have two payments, one of which is currently entered into the state budget, the other has to be recorded in it with a budget amendment. In any case, at the last meeting of the Eurogroup, I have achieved that the relevant decision has been clarified, which was already in general the case at the level of the Heads of State, that October is not an unavoidable period of contribution, but that it is decided by internal procedures, which in our case means that the budgetary change, as is always the case in December at the latest, will be approved. But whether the money is taken from reserves or not, the current plan is that it comes from reserves, and we can certainly do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U50	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U51	The next question is from my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U52	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Our fresh group of five discussed yesterday the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior to move the Academy of Home Affairs to Virumaa, either in Vaivara or in Narva. This is a commendable, very serious position from the point of view of national security, as well as from the point of view of internal, regional and educational policies. I'm not talking about the colossal sums that this project requires. How do you see, as head of government, what's the timeline for working out the topics I've mentioned? And how many of those involved, and who do you want to involve in this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U53	Good questioner! You've gotten ahead of the government, the government hasn't dealt with it yet. However, coalition partners have agreed in the coalition agreement that the transfer or construction of the National Defence Academy in Ida-Virumaa will be considered. There are plenty of pros and cons. We are all convinced that state institutions should be everywhere in Estonia, in all counties, that they should not be concentrated precisely in Tallinn. Recently, very many arguments have been put forward in favour of the construction of the building of the Academy of Internal Defence in Ida-Virumaa. I do not have a very clear position on this issue; we will shape the position at some point in the government meeting. But just to balance the opinions of the advocates of the Ida-Viru County National Defence Academy, I would also mention some arguments against it. First of all, European practices today expect police officers to be trained more or less in the same environment where they will have to work later. During the Soviet era, for example, the police were trained in barracks and this preparation was not enough to work properly later. The trained, future policemen need to know all the nuances of life, know what happens at the discotheque, what the department store looks like and all that. If the training takes place somewhere far from the real job, it may not be working very well. There are certainly problems with lecturers in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U54	Please, Mr Kaljuvee, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U55	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Does the proposal of the Ministry of Internal Affairs also include a so-called college option, in which, for example, officers and master's studies would remain in Tallinn and the rest would be in Viru County? This is a question I was asked by my groupmate, the man Kalle Laane, who is unfortunately meeting with his constituents today, in the field of internal defence. But he asked me to ask if this option was included in this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U56	International evaluators have advised Estonia to concentrate all activities of the Estonian National Defence Academy in a single centre. This would allow synergies and cost savings between the different structures to be achieved. That's a suggestion. Whether to comply fully or partially comply with the recommendation, it is still up to the government and perhaps also the Riigikogu. Currently, we know we have a police school in Paikuse, rescue officers are trained in Väike-Maarja, border guards are trained in Muraste and we have a relatively large police training complex in Kosel. The options proposed so far include the development of Muraste as a single centre, the development of Kose as a single centre, or the construction of the National Defence Academy in Ida-Virumaa. The Ministry of the Interior has not offered a combined version to the Cabinet. Let it be said that the National Audit Office has already criticised all three options. The National Audit Office has found that all three options are overdimensioned and too expensive for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U57	Please, Mr Kaljuvee, the second point to clarify.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U58	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I have seen quite closely the activities and developments of Kohtla-Järve College of Technical University and Narva College of the University of Tartu and I think they have been very positive. But in order to solve the housing problems of the teaching staff of these higher education institutions, late President Lennart Meri once came up with a very interesting idea, namely to build a village for teaching staff at the seaside of Vaivara municipality. Something was even done there. With regard to the National Defence Academy, could this idea have a complexion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U59	In the current location on Kase Street in Maarjamäe, lecturers do not have to live; they can live in Tallinn. And now it is possible to invite lecturers from other institutions of higher education in Tallinn. It is also possible to teach in Tallinn by plane from other parts of the world. There are no such concerns in Tallinn. But I will say once again: I am simply making pros and cons, I do not have a clear position as to whether the construction of the buildings of the Academy of Interior in Ida-Virumaa is justified or not. But one additional cost is certainly also related to the transportation of teaching staff There are also kindergartens that were already mentioned in the first question. If a considerable number of lecturers move to Ida-Virumaa permanently, this also means that there is a need to provide additional kindergarten places. These are the weighing points. An optimal option must be found in financial, regional and security policy terms. But the quality of education must certainly be at the heart of all these different aspects.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U60	Now I would like to ask four questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Deniss Borodich.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! We all know that Ida-Viru County plays an orphan role in terms of both the percentage of its GDP, the unemployment rate and the demographic situation. Certainly, taking a large and important educational institution would give a strong impetus to the development of the region in Ida-Virumaa. The question is whether we can count on it as well. Will other steps be taken to develop this region? Do you think the ice will melt and the resources needed to realise the region's development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U62	Your assessment of Ida-Virumaa as an orphan of Estonia is not very appropriate, especially when it comes to the gross domestic product that is created in Ida-Virumaa. According to my memory, most of Estonia's gross domestic product is created in Tallinn, and the second place could be Tartu and then the third place would be Ida-Virumaa. After Ida-Virumaa, these orphans come as counties how many more. Yes, unemployment is a very big problem in Ida-Virumaa, but once again it has to be said that there are other counties where unemployment is either a problem of the same magnitude or a problem of almost the same magnitude, such as Valga-, Põlva-, Võrumaa. All Estonian regions must be developed and Ida-Virumaa must also be developed. Estonia has also made significant investments in Ida-Virumaa, for example Jõhvi Concert Hall has certainly enriched the cultural life of Ida-Virumaa. Building a prison in Ida-Virumaa is a regional project. It may be ironized, but it is also important for detainees to maintain a bond with their loved ones. If the prisoner stays in touch with the essential people at large, it is less likely to return to criminal life. This is confirmed by statistics from all over the world. Ida-Virumaa roads have also received very significant amounts of money, but in the near future the construction of the second energy block will be decided at Narva station. So there's a lot of investments going there, and there's more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U63	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U64	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Let us look at this decision in terms of regional policy, and this is certainly the right decision. I understand that the government has not said its final word in this regard, so I must apologise for the fact that our young hardworking group has come forward with its own questions. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that Pirita's residents, Pirita's older district and several societies have also come ahead of time, who have already had their greatest concern about what could be done with this 14-hectare land. There is one example, namely the sale of TOP hotels, which is still an issue of dispute. The developers want to build apartment buildings there. The people of Pirita have already declared their confrontation with it. As Prime Minister, what would you say to those concerned Pirita residents?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U65	One comment! Ladies and gentlemen, you are not a group, you are a non-group association.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U66	All right, set it up! Initially, the residents of Pirita have no reason to worry about the Kase Street property because the government has not made a decision. There are no very rapid developments in government preferences, too, because we hope to get money out of the next multiannual budgetary framework to build up the school complex. So it is now more a matter of consideration of ideas, not of a specific financing decision. Even in the current location of Maarjamägi, Pirita-Kose has many advantages. First of all, the same location - local people - are already accustomed to future police officers defending their domestic peace nearby. There are quite well developed certain infrastructure that does not require substantial reconstruction. At the same time, some buildings are from the Soviet era and are not suitable for modern teaching. All three of the new buildings that I have listed are very expensive, and the development of the old may turn out to be much cheaper. The Auditor General has also pointed out that the cost of training a police officer would considerably exceed the cost of training students of the medical faculty, the most expensive so far, if all three new building plans of the National Defence Academy were to be realised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U67	Mr. Prime Minister, two minutes have been given to you. Next question, Mr Allik.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U68	Prime Minister! With your first reply, you probably inadvertently placed Ida-Virumaa outside Estonia, saying that policemen must be prepared in the environment where they will work. But that's it. I actually wanted to ask you this: in connection with the idea of Ida-Viru County, some 100 million euros of new building was immediately discussed in the press. From Narva it is noted that the owners of Kreenholm's premises, the owners of Sweden who have them, have proposed that they build Kreenholm on the island of Kreenholm on the basis of these buildings on the basis of the PPP of the National Defence Academy and grant the complex to the State for long-term rent. Has this option come to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U69	He's a PPP or whatever, the taxpayer still has to pay for it. It is not a question of the financing instrument at present; it is a question of the quality of education, regional policy considerations and a matter of very many other considerations. At the moment, we do not tend to decide the financing instrument first and then see what is a good solution for Estonia, where this institution could be located. This placement of Ida-Virumaa outside Estonia is, however, your pure fantasy. I wouldn't have to tie it to what I said. I talked about training future police officers in barracks, and I mentioned that it is not compatible with the European concepts that were once suitable for the Soviet Union and that some totalitarian countries are still fit for the time being. In the world's democratic countries, it is considered very important to raise police officers in the environment where they have to work. The question is not whether it is here or outside Estonia. The question is whether future police officers should be trained so that they live in a barracks or somewhere in the forest in isolation, or whether they must be trained in a city where the conditions of department stores and discotheques are at hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U70	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U71	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! If I may, we would like to come to the point of this move once and for all. In fact, the Estonian National Defence Academy has a very high share of paid studies. If you look at the budget, it's over half. If the law that provides for the reform of higher education, which is currently being discussed back in the Committee on Culture, should be implemented in the form that the government has approved it and, as the Riigikogu voted in favour in the first round, the Rector of the Estonian Academy of Defence believes that their education of good quality for a long time may suffer if private money is taken away from it. Tomorrow, when you discuss this, will you also be guided by the importance of the future of the academy, the need to maintain continuity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U72	We are planning to discuss the location of the National Defence Academy today. Please do not switch to higher education reform. If students study well, their studies will be free of charge, we all need to remember that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U73	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U74	The next question is from my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul to the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U75	First of all, Mr Minister, thank you for your quite comprehensive answer to the written question. But I'm gonna ask for more tonight. I don't think I'm the only person who's been pretty upset by the book 'Food Magog' of a Swedish author that appeared last year. There is also a great deal of written about Estonian food. In fact, we know that the smoke taste of a very large number of sausages and hams has been achieved as if by fraud. It could be said that artificial smoke aromas, a certain liquid or a powder are used instead of ordinary smoking. It is also no secret that producers keep these products in a brine containing smoke aromas, which creates a delusion of meat that has been grilled with charcoal or made on a gas grill. Even barbecues are made to give the impression that the product is made on grill grates. My question is: how many producers use this method and how can the consumer distinguish?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U76	Yes, indeed, the food industry is developing, technology is developing and new methods of food production are also being introduced. But all this must be known and understood by the consumer. If smoke preparations have been used instead of natural, traditional smoking, this must be indicated on the label. I hope that this rule will also be followed. How many smoking products have traditionally been smoked and how many of those made using modern technology, I can't tell you that proportion by heart. But if this data exists anywhere in Estonia, we will definitely send it to you in writing afterwards. However, I can assure you that some and others are actually in compliance with the established requirements. Our foodstuffs do not contain any excessive harmful substances for human health and fully comply with the food safety requirements established in the European Union. So there is nothing to be afraid of in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U77	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U78	Actually, I think it's even worse than they say. Our situation is slightly better than in the large industrialised countries, which eat 6 to 7 kg of various additives per year and spend billions of euros producing them. In fact, the goal is to save on the basic food. All these "Grandma-like' tags, "Home-made', 'Mamma-made' content are actually something else, because Grandma doesn't use, for example, 22 substances that improve the taste of flour and speed up the rise, as well as all kinds of emulsifiers and enzymes, and I don't know what else. And they make vanilla out of rotten Christmas trees. Let's just let people know that. My question is: as a minister, have you done anything to stop this attack? It's not like we're really used to all this. During the Russian era there were saltpeter and a few other substances, now there are several hundred and thousands of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U79	I have not tried to stop innovation and technological development in the food industry as a minister. Rather, we have tried to monitor it and regulate it so that it does not lead to undesirable developments. As far as possible additives are concerned, one of the objectives of the Ministry of Agriculture is for the consumer to know: the label of the product contains all the additives contained in one or the other foodstuff. In fact, we have, of course, also called on producers in the Ministry of Agriculture to produce food as naturally as possible and to use as few additives as possible. Its importance has been understood by a large number of producers both inside and outside Estonia. It's a big plus in the marketing of food when there's less additives. I am thinking of those additives that may not be the healthiest, such as the various preservation or dyes that can actually be avoided in the manufacture of foodstuffs. This has become an additional argument for marketing. We have also tried to manage this process by raising consumer awareness and we must recognise that we have made some progress in this too. Consumers have become increasingly aware of what additives are and want more and more natural and organic foods. However, it is not worth noting that foodstuffs currently circulating in trade and catering, which have been manufactured using additives, would not comply with food safety requirements. They're compatible. I guess I was afraid you'd ask, and I had the officials prepare the answer. Unfortunately, the time limit does not allow you to read it, I will send it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U80	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul! The second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U81	Thank you. The problem is really serious. I remember that in the early 1990s we were initially allowed 40, then 200 additives. Many thousands are now allowed. Perhaps Western society is more accustomed to them, but we are less, because we see the number of allergic diseases increasing. But when it comes to what's on the package, yes, the packaged goods really have the correct label, though very small. But the problem is just the bar. The seller can't tell you exactly what's inside, even the origin doesn't often know. How can we proceed with this in order to make the situation clearer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U82	We would certainly still need a "Knopka"-like show to educate and inform consumers. It would be a great help, maybe the national broadcasting will take it. However, in fact, the legislation provides that, even in the case of bulk goods, the attendant must be able to provide the exact same exhaustive information as that required for packaged goods. Everything, of course, depends very much on the service culture, the knowledge and professionalism of the attendant, but I hope that as a rule this will be respected in Estonian trade. So the counter attendant has to be able to inform the buyer. This is provided for by legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U83	I would like to ask a question registered on the spot, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U84	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Does the consumer of the Republic of Estonia have the right to choose where he buys something, for example, buys ironed or real meat, or buys the sausage where the spruce's salary has been crushed? Does the consumer of the Republic of Estonia have the right to choose whether to go to the market or to one store or another or to a third store? Do you think that the question raised by Mrs Tuus-Laul here is a real problem and worth raising in the Riigikogu Hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U85	Consumers will be able to choose from all the shops and catering establishments they want. That's my short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U86	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U87	The next question is for my colleague, Marianne Mikkolt, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In autumn, the Riigikogu adopted with one vote a decision obliging the government to develop an action plan to reduce the pay gap between women and men. In the action plan, we wanted to see concrete measures such as national supervision, analysis of laws, collective bargaining. The Prime Minister has recently stated before us that the agenda for the pay gap is being discussed by the government. The Minister of Finance also has a role to play in solving the problem. I ask: is the Minister of Finance prepared to disclose the salaries of all officials in his ministry and administration, together with the extra fees, in order to speed up the reduction of the gender pay gap in the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U89	We do this in accordance with the law. Government decisions will be discussed before they are made public. As far as the disclosure of salaries is concerned, it is no secret that I have disagreed with the government on this issue. In my opinion, this is an invasion of excessive privacy, especially in the case of people who, in today's world of matriculation, seem to be in a poorer light. I don't think everyone's salary should be disclosed in a forced manner, but the government made a different decision. There are limitations in the state sector, and ironically, in the future, the only benefit is that a neighbor will know your exact salary. My wish was to find out the position and the pay range.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U90	Thank you. Our Question Time is about to end. Many thanks to the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions! Thank you very much for replying to the members of the government. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U91	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 11th working week. Is there a desire to pass on drafts and enquiries? I see they want to. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi. This concerns the European Stability Mechanism, with which the Treaty of Accession was signed in the Riigikogu. In February 2007. The mechanism should start on 1 July this year and initially the rescue fund amounted to EUR 500 billion, with EUR 80 billion of paid-up capital being paid up by euro area countries in equal shares over a period of five years. As we know, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder has expressed the opinion that the provision of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, which in exceptional cases allows decisions to be taken on financial contributions to the States Parties to the Stability Mechanism by a majority of 85%, is contrary to the Estonian Constitution. Nevertheless, our Minister for Finance attended a meeting where it was agreed with the ESM that the capital would be paid up at a much faster rate than originally foreseen in the agreement, and also agreed that the first instalment would be paid by July of this year and by October at the latest. As a result, the interviewees have five questions for the Minister of Finance concerning the obligations that Estonia assumes, as well as how the Minister was able to give his consent to the issue which is still under discussion in the Supreme Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U93	Thank you. I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Here's the news. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Aliens Act and the State Fees Act, initiated on 9 April, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on funded pensions, the State Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws, initiated on 9 April, Committee on Social Affairs. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Can we do a presence check now? Requesting presence check! 85 delegates registered as present, 16 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U94	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, the International Sanctions Act and the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act 157. I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U95	A few words about this bill. The draft provides for amendments to the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act. These are due to the need to bring the Estonian legal system more into line with international standards for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. It has also appeared since the entry into force of the previous Act that some provisions have been confusing and that it would be useful to clarify their wording. So that's what this bill is trying to do. The draft was drawn up on the basis of the evaluation carried out in 2008 by the Council of Europe Committee of Experts on measures to combat money laundering and the ex-post evaluation carried out in 2009 concerning Estonia. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has submitted its proposals for amending these laws to the Financial Intelligence Unit, the Estonian Banking Association and the Estonian Insurance Association. No amendments were tabled in the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 12 March and 2 April. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Commission adopted six amendments by consensus, which are set out in the list of amendments together with a brief explanation. The most interesting debate in the committee concerned cultivated pearls and focused on whether the word 'cultivated' could be replaced by 'grown', which is more characteristic of the Estonian language. In general, however, it was considered that it is more appropriate to define the precious stones in the European Union under the Trade Group Regulation, which uses the term 'exploited pearls'. If the Commission still considers that our own language term is much better, it is possible to continue this debate. The Commission decided by consensus to propose the completion of the second reading and, if so, to send the draft to the third reading on 18 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U96	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. Please ask a question, Mr Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U97	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Are these pearls already cultivated somewhere in Estonia, to the Commission's knowledge, or are we dealing only with imported goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U98	I cannot answer on behalf of the Commission, because whether or not pearls are cultivated in Estonia was not discussed at the hearing. And I must admit, as a Member of the Commission, I cannot answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U99	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U100	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When we first discussed this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the question arose as to whether a legal person could set up an investment firm or an investment fund. Can a self-employed person in Inara Luis, for example, set up an investment fund in Setumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U101	Good question! I don't dare make a legal assessment from this remote. But it is certainly possible to address a written question to the Ministry of Finance or the Committee on Monetary Affairs and obtain an exhaustive and precise answer. I do not dare to claim from this that, if the self-employed Inara Luis had such a desire, he certainly should not do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U102	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Six proposals have been put forward to amend this bill, and we will start reviewing them. Proposals Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 are all presented by the lead committee and are therefore fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 157 is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U103	The first reading of the Bill 196 of the Riigikogu's decision to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, submitted by the Government of the Republic, begins. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! According to this draft decision, Estonia's participation in the Council of Europe Development Bank will be increased by 5086 certificates of participation for a total value of EUR 5086000. The Bank's capital will be increased by 40% in total, from 3.3 billion to 5.3 billion euros. The decision of the Riigikogu is necessary as the potential financial commitment of the state increases. This is the sixth increase in capital in the history of the development bank. Estonia joined this bank in 1998; it participates in the capital increase for the second time. As in the previous case, the bank only asks the owners for a share of the capital to be recovered if necessary, the financial contribution is made at the expense of the bank's reserves. Thus, 569000 euros of the bank's reserves will be paid out of Estonia's growing holdings, and the remaining 4517000 euros will be the capital to be recovered if necessary. This may be requested, for example, when a bank is wound up if it fails to fulfil its obligations. However, the call for capital is not foreseen as the bank is well capitalised, is pursuing a strict lending policy and is constantly in profit. The average profit for the last ten years has been EUR 90 million per year. The capital increase will allow the development bank to better take into account the increased credit needs of customers in the post-economic and post-financial crisis situation where private capital flows have decreased. The Bank provides long-term low-interest loans for social-oriented projects, such as the creation of jobs in underdeveloped countries and the construction of housing and social infrastructure for low-income citizens. The loan may be granted either by the Member States or by the legal entities of the Member States, with or without the State guarantee, depending on the bank's risk assessment. Estonia can also benefit from the bank's growing lending capacity if interesting projects are found. The approval of the Riigikogu is a prerequisite for increasing Estonia's participation. The increase in bank capital in the development bank has already entered into force as a sufficient number of participants have confirmed their participation in the increase. More specifically, 32 out of 40 countries have done so. Shareholders' support for capital growth will enable the bank to maintain the best AAA rating from the three core agencies, to continue to obtain finance at a good price from the markets and to lend them to its members on favourable terms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U105	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Please ask a question, Mr Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! When you introduced this bill, you said that the Estonian state will increase the possible financial commitment. Would you explain what this increase in financial commitment is about? Will he increase our debt?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U107	No, it may not increase the debt burden. This still depends on where this hypothetical possibility of additional capital being put in place materialises. At present, there is no indication that the capital actually called for would be needed. However, if this is needed, Estonia will know enough about it and be able to plan these amounts in its cash flows and in its budget. There's nothing going on here, all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U108	Please, colleague Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said in your previous speech that the development bank is managing itself very successfully. Hence the question: could shareholders ever expect dividends from this bank?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U110	That is not the purpose of this bank, and I do not know that there is a distribution of dividends. In the present case, the profits are allocated to core capital. It cannot be ruled out that dividends are being distributed, but I do not know that it has been done so far. I have to check.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U111	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Now I would like to ask my colleague from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Saare.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed a draft of 196 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the Council of Europe Development Bank' on 2 April 2012. Martin Põder, Head of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as the initiator's representative. The purpose of the draft is to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the Council of Europe Development Bank by 5086 certificates of participation in total value of EUR 5086000. The Government of the Republic shall be authorised to take the necessary steps to mark certificates. Now, on the issues and on the issues that were discussed in the Commission. What is the mechanism for increasing participation? Share certificates worth EUR 5086000 are indicated; no real contributions are required in Estonia. The amount of the contribution of EUR 569000 shall be transferred from the general reserve of the CEB and shall be treated as the paid-up capital of Estonia. What happens if Estonia does not agree to increase its participation? The answer was that then the national voting right would simply be reduced. It was also discussed on the subject of decision-making processes. Most decisions will be taken by a majority vote once the decisions have been given a mandate from the Council of Europe. If the Council of Europe does not have a mandate, it will require at least a two-thirds majority. There was also a discussion about the distribution of profits, which was asked about here. The practice so far has been that profits go either into reserves or into use. The loan has so far been granted to countries, local authorities and banks. It was suggested, for example, that Greece had also received the loan, while Greece has so far made its repayments without delay. Interest was expressed in the impact of the development bank's activities on job creation. It was asked whether there was an Estonian representative in the supervisory body. The governing bodies of the CEB are the Administrative Board and the Management Board, the Estonian Ambassador to the Council of Europe is a member of the Executive Board, and the Administrative Board represents Estonia as Head of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance. In conclusion, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 11 April, to close the first reading and to set the deadline of 13 April at 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U113	Thank you very much, Mr Andrus Saare. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for tabling 196 amendments. tho 13 April at 3 p.m. First reading of the bill 196 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U114	We will begin the first reading of the draft Act 191 on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaheri, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft amendment to the Penal Code and related laws by number 191. The aim of the draft is to increase the security of Estonian residents by creating an additional opportunity to reduce the number of criminals who are foreign citizens in Estonia. The draft creates a new possibility of leaving Estonia as an alternative to expulsion for a foreign national who is accused or convicted: the possibility of concluding an agreement to voluntarily leave Estonia and apply an entry ban of five to ten years. The citizens of the European Union are being banned from entering Estonia, while third-country nationals are being introduced into the Schengen area as a whole. If a person infringes an entry ban, the part of the sentence not served shall be enforced. The law currently in force in Estonia provides that a foreign citizen may be left in prison on probation or released on probation before the deadline without applying a behavioural check if he or she is expelled from Estonia. It is possible to transfer a foreign national on the basis of the Convention on the Transfer of Punished Persons. This draft adds one option that will help to reduce the number of foreign criminals staying in Estonia, taking the opportunity to commit crimes repeatedly in Estonia. As the conclusion of an exit agreement involves an entry ban of up to ten years, it becomes more difficult to maintain criminal ties here. Our current foreign policy does not favour the staying of criminals in Estonia, but unfortunately the departure of an alien from Estonia depends largely on the willingness of an alien to cooperate, the desire to apply for a travel document quickly and not to cause any disruption in the process of expulsion. It is also important that the country of origin is ready to receive the person. Currently, the majority of foreign criminals who have been punished in Estonia are from the Russian Federation, where expulsion is difficult, but generally possible. Each year, illegal immigrants come to Estonia from African countries, where expulsion is very difficult and has no perspective on many countries. In addition, most of Estonia does not have an embassy of these countries, and Estonia does not have representatives of its embassies in these countries, which makes the negotiations even more difficult. For such foreign citizens, voluntary departure from Estonia is the only real way to stop a person from staying in Estonia. Thus, the option created by the draft is likely to become increasingly important in the future. For years, the voluntary departure of foreign-citizen criminals to their home country has also been encouraged by several other countries of the European Union. For example, the United Kingdom and Belgium provide for the possibility of reducing the person's penalty if he voluntarily returns to his country of origin. The same regulation is in place in the Netherlands. In its 2010 report, the Council of Europe has expressed its support for the implementation of voluntary return schemes, including a positive example of UK regulation. As the initiators of the draft, we do not consider it right that Estonian taxpayers must support criminals who are foreign citizens and face the burden of doing so. The task of the state is primarily to protect its inhabitants and they can feel the safer the fewer foreign criminals there are in Estonia. The Ministry of the Interior has already been approached by several detainees who have been interested in concluding an agreement to leave Estonia voluntarily. This shows that, like many other European countries, Estonia is ready for such a change. The implementation of the draft does not entail any significant costs. The main costs are the working hours of the officials, as well as the costs of convoicing persons. At the same time, the draft will help to increase security and reduce unjustified costs associated with the presence of foreign criminals in Estonia. The draft is intended to enter into force in s. a on 1 October. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U116	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Now the questions. Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U117	Thank you. Good minister! What is the so-called trade balance of Estonian criminals: are there more foreign criminals in Estonia or are there more Estonian criminals abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U118	This is, in my opinion, a very appropriate term for the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The balance sheet is rather inclined to our detriment in light of this bill. In Estonian prisons, about 250 foreign citizens are currently serving the sentence. Approximately 190 of them come from the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U119	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U120	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! We also talked in the Commission about how much of the foreign citizens in our prisons are from Russia. Knowing that movement within the Schengen visa space is quite free, the question arises as to whether criminals who move within the Schengen visa space will not now be able to simply replace the sentence and return later. Should this draft not be applied only to those countries that have better control over cross-border movements by means of the visa regime?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U121	As I said, this expulsion, or voluntary agreement, naturally involves a ban on entry, which could last ten years. The refusal of entry applies to third-country nationals throughout the Schengen area, and to citizens of the European Union to Estonia. If this prohibition is infringed, the penalty imposed must be paid in full. The most foreign citizens in Estonian prisons are citizens of the Russian Federation. As of now, it seems that by the end of 2012, hundreds of foreign citizens will be subject to this draft. They could be the subject of a voluntary agreement in such a way that an entry ban would also be introduced. This is, in my opinion, a very important nuance, because, on the one hand, if the detainees are motivated, for example, by conditional early release, then, on the other hand, the state is motivated by the fact that these persons are leaving Estonia and cannot come back here during the period that the court determines for up to ten years. So I think that thanks to this, the people of Estonia are much more protected from the citizens of lawbreakers coming especially from the east than from a situation where these people may remain in Estonia after they have served their sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U122	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister of the Interior! I had this question: if the people currently serving the sentence are familiar with this bill and they have a desire to leave voluntarily, will they be able to do so? Does this law have a retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U124	Thank you for your question. This bill has two circles of subjects. One is convicted foreign citizens who are already serving sentences in prisons, and the other is possible accused persons who can also be subject to this law. As I mentioned, there are 242 convicted foreign citizens in Estonian prisons at the beginning of 2012, almost 190 of them from the Russian Federation, with just under 20 Latvian and Lithuanian citizens and even fewer others. As convicts, there are about a hundred potential subjects. They shall meet the following conditions by the end of this year: In the case of a second-degree offence, the person is a criminal offence punishable by at least one third, but not less than six months, of the sentence of less than five years' imprisonment. The first-degree crime must have been carried out by less than half, then we can even begin to talk about possible early parole and agreement. In addition to this, there are a number of other conditions: the consent of the Police and Border Guard Board and the prosecutor and, of course, the court must confirm this once and for all. So in this sense, the answer can be yes, the law has retroactive effect. In the case of persons who are already in prison and who have already been convicted, this can also be applied. As I mentioned, the interest has been shown: there are foreign nationals who wish to conclude a voluntary departure agreement, which also means that these persons must be counted against a maximum entry ban of 10 years. For Estonian society, however, this means that the taxpayer does not have to support them as convicted persons, as detainees, and that the considerable costs that could arise if these persons were to be deported will also fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U125	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U126	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to continue on the same subject. When we are talking about voluntary departure here, we are talking about partial, even largely replacing criminal punishment with voluntary departure. There has also been a lot of talk about a ban on entry. At the same time, it is clear that compliance with the entry ban within the Schengen visa area is a rather complex issue. Is it not appropriate, however, to talk about voluntary departure across the Schengen visa area and the related increase in security? When we talk about a neighbouring neighborhood and replace the sentence with the possibility of leaving ourselves, we are actually replacing it with the possibility of coming back ourselves, because it is very difficult to comply with the ban on entry.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U127	Your question is when we talk about the number of convicted people, a very small proportion of those who are foreign citizens and are currently in detention. They may be subject to an entry ban as an additional penalty. It is true that in the Schengen visa area, where borders are really open, it is more difficult to check whether the person who has been subject to either expulsion or voluntary departure agreement comes back here and starts committing crimes again. But it is a conscious choice for a person if he decides not only to commit new crimes but also to break the law in other ways. Of course, there's a significant risk that he'll get caught. You, on the other hand, probably thought of the European Union's member states, the criminal gangs from which we came to the south, who could come to Estonia to gastritis. Today we are talking about a choice that has a great many decision-makers for. Our aim in this law is not to give any dobro'd, so that these people can simply be expelled from Estonia, so that this problem can be resolved with the help of the miracle rod of this law. No, that's not how it works. Such a decision must first be made by the investigators together with the prosecutor. The prosecutor must submit the application to the court and the court must confirm it, accepting that such a solution is reasonable in a particular case in relation to a particular person. This must, of course, also be justified. But, as has also been said in the introduction, the main circle of law subjects is third-country nationals. And as you can see from the statistics, they're an absolute majority. In my introductory speech, I also spoke from the Black mainland, if I may put it this way, i.e. illegals from the African continent. These are potential offenders, to whom our good colleagues in the European Union, other Member States have also implemented voluntary departure on the basis of an agreement. And that is precisely to reduce the number of criminals who come from there. This is a very effective measure because expulsion cannot be applied to them. As I said, there is no individual's own will for this, and there is no host's, or country of origin, will for some kind of contact, for some sort of logical dialogue and for the readmission of these people. Therefore, voluntary departure is the most sensible. For us, this problem may not be very topical at the moment, but in the future it may become this way. In any case, for example, with our northern neighbour, our good tribal brothers, this is already a topical issue. This is also a acute problem in the UK, as well as in Belgium and the Netherlands. It is there that voluntary departure has been implemented for third-country nationals as the most effective measure to get rid of such persons in the country, how to reduce the burden on taxpayers and, of course, to increase the security of society. These persons will no longer enter this country. And these are countries outside the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U128	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Pomerants, from the chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, of the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U129	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can imagine, the Committee on Legal Affairs has discussed this draft at its meeting. We did this on April 2nd this year. I would first like to start the debate with my colleague Neeme the Great, a little out of the context of the debate in the Commission. Since you have already raised this issue, I would like to point out that, thanks to the new law, the benefits of punishing the Estonian state can be much greater than those of doing so in a situation where a person sits in prison for two years, then steps out of the prison door and looks at what to do with his life, either to commit a new crime here or somewhere else. If this person agrees with the Estonian state that he or she will agree to leave this country, thereby also getting a refusal of entry, the result will be much better for the Estonian state than if the person has spent his or her time in prison and nothing else will follow. After all, the countries of the Schengen visa area also apply the principle that a person is obliged to leave a particular country and be refused entry without a similar law. This may concern, for example, and probably concerns a number of Latvian citizens who are not in prison in Estonia at all and may never do so. Now to the Commission's discussions. It must be said that the debate was very lively. The cross-cutting issue that raised doubts or doubts was that we would not turn Estonia into a paradise of criminals by this law, where you can expect to be asked back home soon, and that is what will soon be. As an example, such court cases as Ustimenko's were brought to the fore, is he now free? The answer is very simple: there are specific sections of the law as to the conditions under which such an agreement may be ruled out. There was also a debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs on whether the circle of these paragraphs could not be a little wider. For example, there is no espionage paraphrase. But there will certainly be an answer to this question once we have received amendments and we can discuss them. Professor Gräzin asked if it wasn't the so-called reverse Galojan law, but we didn't discuss what would happen if Galojan's case were reversed. But most importantly, I want to repeat again, it is the free will of a person to cooperate with the Estonian state and do everything he can to leave this country. We also discussed that it is still possible to expel a person under the arrangement procedure. Indeed, a person can agree with the country on a'simplified sentence' and agree to be expelled from the country. For its part, however, it may do nothing to really enable it to have a valid travel document and all other necessary procedures delivered. The question also arose about double citizenship: what happens if a person has Russian and Estonian citizenship, for example? The answer is very simple: if a person also has Estonian citizenship, the Estonian state will treat him as its own citizen and the specific bill or future law will not apply to him. There was also an interest in how the Police and Border Guard Board could assess whether a particular person met the conditions and could at least potentially be expelled under such an agreement. In response, the representative of the Ministry of the Interior expressed the notion that it could be assessed by communicating with different authorities. It is still possible to initiate the expulsion process, although this law does not yet exist. The Commission was also concerned about how to explain this draft to the public. How do you explain the regulation that you're gonna commit your crime, make a deal with the country, and get free? Here's the answer. Even now, imprisonment does not have to be the only consequence of the crime, there are various alternatives. The adoption of this law does not give anyone the right to demand an agreement with the state to be expelled from Estonia. Depending on whether or not the criteria are met, a particular person may be in the target group for whom the agreement can at least theoretically be called. After discussing this draft, we have come to the conclusion that it is ripe to send the draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the first reading. We proposed discussing it today, as has happened today, ending the first reading (seven people voted in favour of it and one was impartial), setting the deadline for amendments at 25 April at 4 p.m. and setting me as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-11_U130	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for tabling 191 amendments at 16 a.m. on 25 April. Draft 191 first reading is over and our agenda is exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 2.43 p.m.
