ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! There's 44 comms registered, no 57. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U2	Let's start with the first question. Please, Mr Simson, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U3	Prime Minister! The well-trained dialogue with your previous Question Time with my colleague, Randpere, also raised some questions about the Estonian tax structure. Eurostat and the European Commission's annual study "Tax trends in the European Union" state that indirect taxes in Estonia account for 42.4% of the total tax burden. We are the third largest in the European Union. Why is the share of indirect taxes so high in Estonia? The EU average is 37.7%, while the euro area average is still less than 36.2%, but the share of indirect taxes in Estonia is 42.4%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U4	It is a question of national choices whether to apply more direct taxes, apply more indirect taxes or apply more property taxes. As we know, the share of property taxes and capital taxes in Estonia is virtually non-existent. However, in a large number of countries, especially in those countries where the overall tax burden is high, some parties want to have 10,000 kroons of car tax per year as usual practice. There are also property taxes, capital taxes are high and therefore their tax burden is not only divided between direct and indirect taxes, but there is a third area yet. If you look at the same Eurostat survey, to which you rightly referred, Estonia's indirect taxes on gross domestic product in the European Union are at the top of the 15.2% of GDP are indirect taxes. Sweden ahead of us is 19%, Denmark 17%, Hungary, Austria, Bulgaria and Cyprus. And with 0.1%, we're going to be left behind, for example, France. Looking back at them, it stands out that in Spain, for example, the share of indirect taxes is small, but also in Greece, the share of indirect taxes is very small. It certainly cannot be said that the same is true and the other way is wrong, that the same is good and that the other way is bad. The final result should be assessed. The efficiency of tax collection in Estonia is good, Estonian public finances are in order. We should not try to align ourselves to those who have no tax collection efficiency and who have mismanagement of public finances.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! I understand that your political choice is that in Estonia, the company's reinvested profits are exempt from income tax. At the same time, there has been a serious increase in indirect taxes here in Estonia. The problem of rising consumption taxes is their regressivity on the basis of the Praxis 2010 edition, which is why poorer households pay a relatively large proportion of their income in the form of these taxes. Why has the government worsened the situation of people with lower incomes through its activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U7	It cannot now be said that the government has worsened the situation of the low-income population. We know that there is an exemption from personal income tax, which is much more beneficial for a person with a lower income than for a person with a high income. This certainly also compensates for the fact that the lower income person's consumption basket has more of what VAT is paid on. I think our tax system is effective at the moment, but the tax system is good. It can always be better, and I'm not saying it's perfect. However, to this conclusion that Estonia has a relatively good tax history, we also arrive when we compare, for example, the individual tax rates that apply in Estonia and in some of our neighbouring countries. We can see that the tax rates in Estonia are relatively lower than those in neighbouring countries. But if we compare the overall tax burden, we will see that it is smaller in southern neighbours than in Estonia. Why? But because, in the case of higher tax rates, this money could not be collected in the form of taxes. The Estonian tax system does not punish entrepreneurialism; the Estonian tax system is aimed at reducing environmental pollution, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! The main promise of the Reform Party has been a reduction in the rate of income tax. At present, the income tax rate is 21%, but compared to 2002, the employee's share of unemployment insurance has increased by 2.8% and the funded pension contribution by 2%, corresponding to a total of 25.8%. Why have you cheated on your voters?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U10	The Reform Party has never promised voters that it will abolish the funded pension system. On the contrary, we also consider the funded pension scheme and, more broadly, the pillar system in pension insurance to be our creation. Such a promise has never been made by the Reform Party that it will lose the state's contributions to the second pillar, and such a promise will never be expected of the Central Party's Reform Party. This will not be the case, because the policy of the Reform Party has always been a responsible policy and we believe that workers must secure their future by raising sufficient resources for retirement days.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, since we have a lot of questions registered today, I promise three questions registered on the ground. Please, first of all, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! In the run-up to the elections, today's government parties quite eagerly promised a reduction in home expenses, a reduction in prices. This, of course, has not happened. On the contrary, there has been a very large increase in home costs. My question is: why do you not want to tell people that home costs can still be reduced only by the government lowering indirect taxes? Until now, excise duties and VAT have risen steadily for heating, fuel, electricity and indoor heating. If the government lowered them, home expenses would be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U13	I didn't answer the previous questioner about this unemployment insurance part. It is clear that all of us who are working must contribute in solidarity to the case of one of us becoming unemployed. As a result, unemployment insurance contributions must always cover the necessary costs and, if more reserves are built up, the rate of unemployment security will, of course, be reduced and, next year, it will be planned by the government. Now it's home expenses. Ma'am, you obviously have not noticed that, for example, the money received from the sale of Kyoto allowances is very large sums of money aimed at making housing more energy-efficient. That is what helps to reduce home expenses. Years ago, a long time ago, when I became Minister for the Economy, this was also a rapid rise in energy prices, to which Europe reacted relatively painfully. And then the Danish Minister for Economic Affairs said that they intend to react to the rise in energy prices by increasing the rate of natural gas excise duty, because so far they have one fossil fuel less taxed than other fuels. He said that they wanted to channel more resources into energy savings rather than subsidise the useless burning of fossil fuels by the taxpayer. And an observant observer does not need to be very observant to do this; it is enough to look at the surface as well. The government of the Republic of Estonia has invested a great deal in energy savings, instead of stimulating more waste with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U14	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! I didn't get that answer right now. Household expenditure has increased by up to 40% according to the latest statistics. But my particular question to you is about the price of fuel. The price of petrol in Estonian money is about 22 kroons a litre, and half of this is the tax in the state taxes that we pay to the state. Isn't that a little too much? As we know, petrol sales have also decreased. Maybe you've overreacted to these taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U16	No, absolutely not. You have a party partner who is able to visit Eurostat's home page, and he will certainly also guide you to the site where we talk about fuels, including gasoline. If you look at this table, you will see that in only a few countries, such as Bulgaria, the price of petrol, as well as the rate of excise duty on petrol, is lower than in Estonia. So, who do you want to go after? There are not too many of these countries in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U17	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U18	Thank you. The subject is currently direct and indirect taxes. I, too, believe that the share of direct taxes should be rather small in order not to penalise people's work and the collection of wealth. Rather, it is right to limit consumption and pollution by indirect taxes. But since Kadri Simson so fiercely attacked indirect taxes, I ask the Prime Minister whether the introduction of Tallinn's sales tax was an increase in indirect taxes or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U19	This was, of course, an increase in indirect taxes. It was supposed to bring, I don't remember, harmony and peace and happiness to the people of Tallinn, which it didn't bring. The City Council of Tallinn and the City Government of Tallinn, i.e. the Centre Party and the Social Democrats, have also contributed to raising indirect taxes, with an entirely inappropriate contribution. This contribution from Tallinn could have led to Estonia not being able to meet the Maastricht inflation criterion, so at least the experts warned in their time. But this, of course, did not hold back the Social Democrats and the Centre Party in Tallinn. I wonder what the goal was, either to gain a little more tax revenue or indeed to thwart Estonia's accession to the euro zone. As far as excise duties on petrol are concerned, the rate is lower than that of Estonia in Bulgaria, Romania and Cyprus, and there are no more of these countries. Therefore, place Estonia among the 27 Member States with this knowledge and decide whether or not the excise duty on petrol is too high in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U20	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U21	The next question is from my colleague Jaak All to the Minister of Culture Rein Lang.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U22	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister of Culture, A review of the activities of the Chancellor of Justice presented to us in the autumn stated that the Minister of Culture promised the Chancellor of Justice already in 2008 that the Ministry of Culture would prepare a draft law amending the law on the cultural autonomy of the minority, which laid down specific grounds for refusing to grant an authorisation for the formation of the national list of minorities. Unfortunately, this draft has not been drawn up so far and submitted to the Riigikogu. Can you tell us what the reasons for this four-year delay have been and what developments have now taken place in the ministry under your leadership on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U23	I'm not the one who's allowed it to start. The question is quite complicated. In fact, cultural autonomy in its current sense, as is understood by the Estonian law on cultural autonomy, is, in many ways, the concept of the socialist philosophers Bauer and Renner of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire. And the idea was that indigenous peoples would enjoy the autonomy of national culture in their historical territories. This concept was certainly entirely relevant to the then great empires, as was the case with Tsar-Russia, where this concept moved from the Austrian-Hungarian Empire, not to mention Austria-Ungar itself. That in the 1920s Estonia took over this Social Democratic idea right to turn it in, I cannot tell you exactly what the reason was. He must have been designed to protect the rights of the Baltic Germans, the Swedish minority and the Russian minority near Peipsi. However, it is known that only Swedish and Baltic German minorities used cultural autonomy as wealthier minorities. This is where the circle of problems begins, that, in fact, semiotically, it is very difficult to bring the apparatus of this concept into a normal legal language, which, by the way, was also pointed out by Mr Vollebaek when he came here. We are now working on this issue, and since it is more legal philosophy, I also hope to work with the Ministry of Justice here. Today, we do not have any concrete drafts yet to show.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U24	Please, Mr Allik, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U25	Thank you, Minister, for your historical review. But for decades, many Estonian politicians, I among them, have told us about the great and progressive nature of our minority's law of cultural autonomy. However, this law has not given us the opportunity to draw up a national list and to establish cultural autonomy for our largest minority, although both Ingerizomians and coastal Swedes have made up their autonomy. In this context, the opinion has developed that political decision has been taken somewhere not to allow the formation of Russian cultural autonomy. What is your personal position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U26	That may be the impression of reading the Evening Pages and drawing your knowledge only from this excellent publication. In fact, three Russian organisations have approached the Ministry of Culture with the proposal that they be the founders of the national list. But the law clearly states that only one organisation can be granted that right. So right now, the Ministry of Culture is working first to find out what the will of the minority that could represent them is. For now, I repeat, there are three precedents.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U27	Please, Mr Allik, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U28	Thank you! Mr. Minister! I have to be honest with you, I haven't read anything about this topic in the evening. But I just want to ask you where you got to. Indeed, as far as I know, there have recently been three requests for a Russian national list in the Ministry of Culture. One has been turned down. But why has the discussion of these other applications been delayed for over a year? The real question is: what assistance has the Ministry provided to these applicants for the realisation of their constitutional right, for the preservation of ethnicity through the establishment of cultural self-government institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U29	Thank you for your question. But to which applicant, and what help can we provide? We are now trying to explain the background of these organisations, their background forces. There's a negotiation with them. In the very nearest time, we will publish, as is the law and the decree of the Government of the Republic, which bears the signature of Jaak Allik, in two languages, an ad in the newspaper, which announces the receipt of such a request. That's what we're gonna do in the nearest time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U30	Thank you, Mr. Minister of Culture. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U31	The next question is from my colleague, Kalle Laanet, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of the Interior! I'm such a stubborn islander. We have been discussing certain issues here concerning the transfer of staff costs from 2010 to 2011. We're talking police and border guards. On 9 January, you told the Riigikogu's board that this amount was EUR 55900 and that this answer was prepared for you by the Police and Border Guard Board in cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I'm asking you, what's the answer today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U33	Thank you, stubborn islander, for your question. Consistency is certainly one of the pledges of success. We have, of course, taken out fresh morning data today as well. Has anything changed? When it comes to 2010 and the amounts to be transferred, nothing has changed, a good questioner. That is exactly the same answer today. The amounts have also been separately approved by the Police and Border Guard Board and have also been based on the decree of the Minister of Finance signed by the Minister of Finance on 25 January 2011, which also includes a table of the corresponding amounts. Indeed, the staff costs you charged of EUR 55937 have been transferred to 2011 to pay taxes on wages calculated from 2010.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U34	Please, Mr Kalle Laane, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! One part of it is right for you to have EUR 55,900. And according to my information, what I received from the Ministry of Finance has been transferred at a cost of human resources of 222873,41. But my question is: how much did the last study carried out at the Police and Border Guard Board cost, and what did we discuss in the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U36	Indeed, at the end of last summer the Ministry of Internal Affairs considered it important to have a side view of the activities of the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as the division of responsibilities between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Police and Border Guard Board in policy making and policy implementation. As we know, since the beginning of 2010, the Police and Border Guard Board has been a joint office and it was quite a time to analyse how this agency has become operational. The analysis is over for today. The work lasted for over six months, and I believe that Ernst & Young, an international consultancy firm, has done it very properly and thoroughly. It has been introduced to members of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee and it is, of course, also available to the public. On the basis of this side view made by the consulting firm, their analysis, a working group has been set up between representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board, led by the Chancellor of the Ministry of the Interior. The task of the group is to work through the proposals made and to implement a significant part of them. In general, the findings of the analysis were largely consistent with those achieved during the internal analysis both at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and at the Police and Border Guard Board. There was a lot of common ground, so we can get on with it. The entire analysis cost me, according to my estimate, the exact amount I am currently owed to you is less than EUR 30000.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U37	Please, Mr Kalle Laane, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I have one more question. On 23 January, the Central Party Group sent to the Ministry of the Interior a letter signed by the Head concerning the closure of the rescue teams. The content of our letter was that the Ministry of the Interior would consider the idea of creating a rescue unit where it was planned to be lost, either in place of a mixed command or a voluntary unit. My question is, did you discuss this letter before making your decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U39	Thank you, too, for the letter of formal notice sent to us by the Group of the Centre Party. The reply to the letter of formal notice is being signed. In any event, the proposal for voluntary development is appropriate. Volunteering has been actively addressed. I myself have considered this to be one of the most important priorities in strengthening the rescue capacity to create an additional voluntary network across Estonia alongside the network of professional rescuers. However, it is certainly not right to claim that the voluntary network is currently nonexistent. We have it. 1100 volunteers are in command in Estonia; the number of volunteers reaches 90. Our goal is to significantly increase the number of both volunteer rescuers and rescue teams. There is a pretty large budget resource for this year. For example, EUR 50000 has been earmarked for the so-called start-up grants for those areas under the restructuring of the rescue network, which was finally decided this week. As we know, the restructuring of rescue teams means that 72 professional commandos remain in Estonia, and I very much hope that the number of voluntary rescue teams will increase by more than 100 in the coming years. In any case, the state confirms, and I assure you for my part, that we will put as much on this shoulder as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U40	I would now like to ask three questions registered on the spot. Let's start with colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U41	Thank you. Dear Minister, Recently, there has been a major "fire" in the field of fire. Recently, a letter and a cry for help was sent by Palamuse's parish elder to see why their rescue squad was lost. The reason is that there are few residents, but it has not taken into account nearly 400 students living there in student homes at the Luua Forestry School. Why haven't you taken that into account? By the way, the mayor has also begun to gather votes against this scheme. What are you planning now? We know that rescuers and rescue teams aren't making it. What's gonna happen in the future? And also: why are the rescue troops of Puhja and Võnnu being eliminated in Tartu County? Why are so many of them closing in one area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U42	Thank you for your question. From the summer of 2011, an analysis carried out by the Rescue Board was carried out, which received its point this week. The purpose of this analysis was to organise a network of rescue commandos and the ability to save in the first place throughout Estonia. As we know, the current location of the rescue commandos has been "historical" but, over 20 years, the economic geography and demographic situation have changed considerably, and many infrastructure objects are quite different. All of this, of course, means that the ability to save must go hand in hand with change. The biggest problem in Estonia is that we have a number of areas where people do not get a high-quality rescue service. Lifesaving capacity is not guaranteed in many parts of Estonia. The restructuring of rescue teams will ensure that all current problem areas will be resolved and the rescue capacity will increase in such a way that 120000 more people will be covered by life-saving services, especially in areas where problems have been encountered so far. We currently have commandos in Estonia, which have been closed for six months. We have commandos where it is possible to send a car out, but when one man arrives, unfortunately, it will be of no use in saving people's lives, as life-saving capabilities will only begin with the command, where they will be able to drive out and offer a full service of at least three men on duty at that moment. So my argument is: by restructuring, the ability to save in Estonia will increase and this will make people's sense of security stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U43	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U44	Thank you, good manager. Minister of the Interior! I want to ask you about the evacuation of the rescue teams. Not until last week's Sunday evening in Leisi, Saaremaa, the eyewitness of the fire claimed that local rescuers were able to get the fire under control before Kuressaare's command arrived. It is known that Leisi is one of those areas that should lose their command. It has been said that 93% of the Estonian population will live in areas with an arrival rate of up to 15 minutes or a response rate if the plans are implemented. What would you say to the remaining 7% of the Estonian population who remain in areas where the rescue team does not arrive quickly and the consequences can be catastrophic?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U45	Thank you for your question. First of all, the most important thing for a lot of us, at least the Home Office, is definitely when we talk about fires, saving lives. Alongside lives, reducing property losses is secondary. Prevention in the area of rescue is the most effective way to achieve both of these objectives. In the last five years since 2006, the number of fires in Estonia has decreased by 35%, mainly due to its contribution to prevention. The number of fires has decreased 2.5 times. This means that the Nordic model, which emphasises the importance of prevention, is certainly relevant in Estonia as well, and we intend to make a huge contribution to it. Prevention simply means that a person's own greater awareness of the risks and dangers, the use of a smoke detector, certainly the use of other tools. The decision that came into force last year to sell cigarettes in Estonia is not of minor importance, etc. So we expect people's own contribution to prevention, to which the Rescue Board also provides great support. This is very important because prevention is the real job that actually helps. As for the people to whom aid reaches in more than 15 minutes, yes, Estonia is a scattered state, we must take this into account. Finland faces a similar question. By the way, Estonia has twice the number of rescue workers per 1000 inhabitants compared to Finland. But it is clear that a voluntary party must also play its role in this, on which we want to place very strongly under our shoulders in every village in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U46	I would like to ask you now for the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Kalev Eagle.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The recent two fires in Leisi's depot service area, including one with a fatal outcome, have proven that your new concept is not working. Life-saving commandos are of little use if they are too far away from the population. Is this negative experience a sufficient reason to renegotiate the decisions to close island rescue teams?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U48	Thank you for your question. It must be said with great regret that this case, which you have referred to at the moment, was a victim of fire, which was not helped by the fact that Leisi's command was able to leave and arrive in a very short time. As you know, in this very unfortunate case, a person had to lose his life. It is quite clear that preventing human casualties as far as possible is an absolute priority. There are very many examples in Estonia that the very fast arrival of the rescue command across the road has unfortunately not prevented too much damage or also the loss of fire. Therefore, as far as fires are concerned, I believe that we need to offer the best possible full service available by the state, the life-saving capacity and at least a dozen other significant services that one of the rescue commanders who travels can offer. There are currently a number of areas in Estonia where life-saving capacity and other sub-categories of full service are not offered. There are commandos, which are half a day a year closed, with only one man leaving a considerable number of days a year, two men at best. But that certainly doesn't satisfy me or you. In the future, a secure rescue service will become more accessible to a large number of Estonian residents. In this sense, I think that the reorganisation of the rescue capacity will certainly strengthen the sense of security in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U49	Thank you, Mr. Minister of the Interior. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U50	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U51	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! The Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act states that the Government is obliged to receive a mandate from the Riigikogu's Committee on European Union Affairs for most European Union legislation, namely when the adoption of a document requires the amendment of Estonian laws or has significant economic or social impact. In addition, we have so far, according to good practice, also been involved in the debate on less important EU documents, i.e. green books. However, if you look at the ACTA procedure, which is obviously a very important document, and which has also led to discussion in public, the Estonian Parliament has not discussed the matter at all. What is the justification for the fact that the government did not address ELAK for an opinion on ACTA until it was approved by our diplomats? Have you knowingly handled the matter "in secret," or do you consider the document so irrelevant that it can be accepted without a substantive social debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U52	I don't consider an anti-counterfeiting trade agreement irrelevant now. But you already mentioned the main reason. Joining the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement does not entail the need to amend European Union law or Estonian law. Accordingly, there is no need to deal with this issue in ELAK. However, I would like to point out that the procedure has been public. Since 2007, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Patent Office and the Ministry of Justice have participated in the proceedings. So the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement cannot have any new content for anyone who has wanted to know it. The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement is intended to protect the interests of honest people. This agreement does not entail the need to amend Estonian laws, but it also gives Estonian entrepreneurs, more generally European Union entrepreneurs, a better competitive position in countries where intellectual property is not protected to the extent that it is protected in the European Union. If they join the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, they will act on the same basis as we do, and that is why our companies will become more competitive in these markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U53	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U54	Thank you. Whether or not the adoption of ACTA requires the amendment of Estonian laws is, as I understand, a slightly debatable question, but neither I nor you are the most competent here to say it. But you have confirmed that this is an important agreement, which also brings about good aspects for copyright-covered people operating in Estonia. According to § 1521 (1) (2) of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the opinion must be sought from ELAK even if the legislation has an important social and economic impact, which, as you said, this agreement has. But my second question is this: can you tell me who of the politicians or officials authorised our diplomat from the European Union diplomatic mission to approve this act?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U55	I can't really say the name right now, but if there's a person in charge, I could take responsibility myself, because I think it's the right thing to do. I do not understand this hysteria, which has opened up especially in Estonia. If we look at those countries that have already signed an anti-counterfeiting trade agreement in October last year, we will see that these countries are the US, Australia, Canada, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore and South Korea. To date, 22 Member States have not only signed this agreement but also done so by the European Commission. Let us think for a moment that the Swedes, for example, have signed this agreement. Can you imagine that when the Swedish Prime Minister or the President of the United States signed the agreement, they were based on the desire to turn the Internet off one day, as we can read from the media, especially from the Evening Page now? In Sweden, freedom of expression is even more respected than it is respected in Estonia. It is absolutely impossible for the Swedish Government to do something that would harass people's access to information, somehow harass freedom of expression. I don't understand the hysteria that has been turned up in Estonia! It reminds me of swine flu. For a long time, we opposed the purchase of a scary expensive vaccine, but eventually we couldn't resist 20 million kroons went to the sewer. It's like a goat hit him with a tail! I couldn't resist hysteria! I think it's going to be the same now. Some feel that when stealing is awfully easy, when it is as if the situation favors stealing, you have to steal. It's like it makes stealing completely legal. I don't think so!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U56	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U57	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your colorful answer. But if you can imagine, I didn't ask you at all whether ACTA was a good thing or a bad thing. I asked you about the implementation of § 1521 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, i.e. why Parliament has been excluded when dealing with this matter. However, this should not be the case, even though you think it is an excellent thing and you can be personally responsible for it. As we know, we have a slightly different regime in Estonia. My last question is very simple: when will ACTA come to the Riigikogu for ratification?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U58	It can come to the Riigikogu for ratification after Estonia has signed it. But to remind you once again: the reason why the Riigikogu has not dealt with this subject is that accession to the agreement does not bring about any changes in Estonian legislation. Everything! You yourself read the reason for this in the introduction to your question. You know the reason. To date, the European Commission has signed up to ACTA. This is going to be about the European Parliament. Joining the EU-level anti-counterfeiting trade agreement means that Estonia will be bound by the provisions of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement concerning the areas of common competence of the European Union. In those areas where we have the competence of Member States, which have not been given the joint competence of the European Union, these contractual provisions can be implemented once each Member State individually has joined this agreement. To date, only five countries of the European Union have not joined the Treaty. These countries are Estonia, Slovakia, where elections are coming up and where there is not much joining at the moment, the reasons for Cyprus's non-accession, I do not know, Germany and the Netherlands. The German Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already received a mandate to sign, and there is some clarification at parliamentary level in the Netherlands. These clarifications are considered technical. And I can say that, for example, in Germany, this issue has not exceeded the media threshold.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U59	Now, the matter registered on the spot. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! "20 million kroons went to the sewer. " You are in a very poetic mood today, and I am pleased about that. But I would still expect a little more serious answers to this ACTA agreement. You have already mentioned that some countries have not yet joined it. Slovakia and the Czech Republic have renounced it this week, and Poland also has doubts about what has come to the public. Why, though, do we have so much disagreement? And where did the special enthusiasm of the Estonians come from again to make it quick, so no one here could hear the first signature of the contract?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U61	Mr. Heimar Lenk! You've got it all wrong. Estonia is among the five countries of the European Union that have not signed the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement and not among those who have long signed it, such as Sweden. We are among those who have not signed. I say, where have we been in a hurry? I don't understand the people who have made ACTA some kind of ghost. Today, a good colleague, Rein, has already quoted the Evening Pages. I'll take a quote from the Nightmares. 6 February 2012: "ACTA is a secretly developed contract for the people in developed countries, which gives the Internet service provider an obligation to monitor all practices online and to punish all copyright infringements with a large financial penalty or imprisonment without a trial. " Look at what lies ahead for us. "Languages cheaper, but with the same effect, replicas and patentes the seeds of plants and cereals, which must no longer be grown in all their fields. " Friends! Agriculture is all over now! Lar tried, couldn't do it, ACTA's gonna do it! You know, the man who says something like that has eaten the seeds, and not the seeds we sow in our fields. [[Laughter.]] Usually in such cases, when people have such doubts, putting foil in their hat sometimes helps. Some people think that a Jacuzzi can help. I don't know what would help in a particular case, but people could get help somewhere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U62	Thank you. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! It is not as clear as that, because this agreement was not supported by the vote of the European Parliament: 336 was opposed and 303 was in favour or something like that. So it doesn't make any sense. But I ask: when will Estonia sign this agreement and when will it take effect in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U64	Nothing will happen in Estonia by itself, as I have already said. But the opportunities of Estonian entrepreneurs in countries where intellectual property is not treated on the same basis as it is treated in the European Union and in Estonia will become better. When do we sign? The sooner the better, the better, my point of view. I do not think that Barack Obama or Fredrik Reinfeldt has committed a crime against either the American people or the Swedish people because they agreed to join the anti-counterfeiting treaty. On the contrary! I think stealing is a sin, it's evil anyway. You know, I'm so old, I remember the time when the painting was like when people left home, they didn't lock doors. You put the broom in front of the door. Well, it could be a message for a corrupt person to go there because there's no one home, it's easy to take. But no, the Estonian people did not conclude that it is easy to steal now because no one is home, they have all gone on hay. The Estonian person concluded that he would not enter the door where the bones were placed. At this point, we should not conclude that we can steal from the Internet or copy some medications as fake drugs. We are not talking about generic medicines; they are absolutely not affected by this anti-counterfeiting agreement. It's like we're jumping to the conclusion that if stealing is so easy, let's just keep stealing. Steal happily, it's a new culture! I hope that Estonians will never embrace such a culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U65	And I would like to ask you the last question registered on the spot, Mr Olga Soldier.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U66	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! You are trying to turn this serious issue into a circus here, although this is not a very funny thing at all. Tens and hundreds of thousands of people across Europe are concerned about the impact that the ACTA Treaty can have once it is in place. This is also indicated by the demonstrations that will take place in Tallinn and Tartu on Saturday in Estonia. I think it's not 10 people, it's 100, 200 or 300 people, maybe more. Let's see your life. But here's my question. Is there any official document, study or assessment of how the entry into force of ACTA will affect Estonia, not some opinion expressed by you or someone else during the meeting, but official confirmation that yes, we do not need to amend any law and that no changes will result in any change in the entry into force of ACTA?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U67	I rely on my statements to analyze the Ministry of Justice. I have read this memo from the beginning to the last point and confirm its key message: joining the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement does not entail the need to amend Estonian legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U68	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U69	The next question is from my colleague, Priit Toobal, to Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U70	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. My question is due to concerns about the future of the Estonian National Museum. Further activities related to the construction of a new building are unknown. You have said that the new ERM building must be completed in any case. The European Commission has responded in the negative on several occasions to the request to co-finance the construction of a new building. How's it going? When will ERM get the new building, and will it ever be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U71	I will stay with me: of course, the new building of the Estonian National Museum will be completed. This construction is carried out by Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which is currently preparing the documentation for the announcement of the public procurement. I have also repeatedly said the truth in the media, not in Midweek, which is your main source of information, that if the European Commission does not fund this site, it will be financed by the Cultural Endowment of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U72	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister, thank you very much for remembering the newspaper on Midweek! Here's the second question. According to the work project currently on the table, the cost of ERM construction is estimated at EUR 87,7 million. When the first construction contract organised by ERM failed, museum managers talked about the construction cost of EUR 37.8 million. As we know, almost all cultural objects in Estonia, such as Kumu and Seaplane Harbour, have become more expensive than was originally planned. They have not been completed by the deadline. What could be the final cost of the ERM project?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U74	You still have some interesting information at your disposal. It is a good thing that you already know the cost of construction before you open public procurement bids. Everyone must act within their own limits of corruption. When a public procurement has been announced, tenders open and decided with whom the contract will be awarded, the RKAS will probably say what the final price is for this construction procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U75	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U76	Thank you. I don't really ask anymore because there's no point in asking the Minister. I am simply saying, according to the remark, that the amount I was talking about is the amount stated by the director of the Estonian National Museum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U77	There's no question. Please, a matter registered on the spot from my colleague Jaak Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U78	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a completely pragmatic question. If, now, Europe should be the final no for this European contribution to ERM, were these amounts, according to my memory, 500 million kroons still reached or can be used for other cultural and tourist objects in Estonia or has the train left?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U79	Thank you. Good question. These are the resources of the European Cohesion Fund, which can in principle be spent on the development of tourism infrastructure. I think it's possible to use that money. The final deadline is the end of 2015 and it is still the first quarter of 2012. I think there are still many projects in the portfolio that have not found funding, but which are ready to launch. I am quite optimistic about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U80	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U81	The next question is from my colleague Kalev Eagle to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of the Interior, please explain your understanding of volunteering. In replying to an inquiry in the Riigikogu, you explained that the commandos are not closed but replaced by volunteers. The concept so far is that volunteering is a "bottom-up" initiative for local people. How is it possible to create this with a minister's ukase?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U83	Thank you very much. That's completely wrong, good questioner. I never said anywhere that professional rescuers would be replaced by volunteers. That's not true! Volunteers will complement our network of professionals, which will be reorganized during the first half of this year by reorganizing the rescue commandos that have been prepared since the summer of last year. In my opinion, this is the most in-depth analysis that the Rescue Board has conducted lately. This analysis has been carried out by experts in the field, and everyone who has wanted to speak has been involved in the process. The management of the Rescue Board has been driving around Estonia and has been to all the places affected by the restructuring, met local residents, also representatives of the rural municipality, rescuers and has listened to the views. The Rescue Board has now made its decision and it can be said that in the end, the rescue service in Estonia will clearly improve. People can be sure that the nearby commando will be operational all year round. This is extremely important: the year is running! Lifesaving capabilities and a commando are guaranteed all year round, who travels to people to eliminate the consequences of these people, these rescuers are able to provide all services, including saving lives when buildings are on fire.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U84	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Please explain: how could it be that in some of the closed commandos in May of this year, a repair course was made at the end of last year with money from the sale of the CO2 quota?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U86	Thank you very much. Even in the places affected by the restructuring of the rescue teams, the country will not disappear. Which means very simply saying this: the Rescue Board has proposed the possibility, which this year also has the resources, that until the end of 2012, coordinators will remain in office in all nine places, who will help to implement the restructuring smoothly and if there is a desire to create a voluntary commando, they will advise on how to raise resources and resources for this. Secondly, the state transfers all the resources it can to the emerging volunteer commandos. In quite a number of places affected by the restructuring, there is already a voluntary cell, in quite a few places it is being created. People have expressed a clear wish for this at the meetings held in January. Buildings will also be handed over, and they will remain available for the provision of rescue services. So besides technical equipment, equipment and financial support, the voluntary command will also have the buildings at its disposal and will be able to operate. I know that there are a number of rescuers, such as Leisi and the South-Estonia-restructuring commandos, who have said their will very clearly: they want to continue volunteering, and that is only welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U87	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Since our Question Time is about to end, I apologize to those who wanted to ask for more. Question Time is over. Thank you, colleagues, for asking questions. Thank you, members of the government and Prime Minister, for answering questions, especially the Prime Minister. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U88	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. Let's start with my colleague Deniss Borodich. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to hand over an inquiry from the MPs of the Central Party to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet. The subject is an anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. As we all know, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, or ACTA, as the people call it, is a transnational agreement that defines international standards for the enforcement of intellectual property rights. It is known that the Agreement was initialled on 25 November 2010 and is open for signature as from 1 May 2011. According to the memorandum published by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 19 January 2012, the competence and responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in matters related to ACTA are confirmed in Estonia. In the view of the parties to the inquiry, this is a very controversial agreement, which should, on the one hand, help prevent copyright infringements, but, on the other hand, it uses surveillance activities which could lead to uncontrolled sharing of personal data. The Treaty therefore places copyrights above the right to privacy and data protection. The fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agreed to approve the agreement without public discussion remains confusing. In relation to the above, we have five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U90	Thank you. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U91	Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Culture Rein Lang, whose content is the state's activities in support of top sports. The National Audit Office has prepared an audit to assess the transparency, purposefulness and legality of state support for sport and the effectiveness of the Estonian sports system in achieving excellence. The audit has shown that the level of funding of the Estonian sports system may be assessed, but most organisational factors are still at the average level of development. There has been little development of a system for searching for talent and developing talent, a sports career and post-sport support system and the use of scientific achievements in sport. In the National Audit Office's survey, athletes, coaches and sports leaders found that one of the most important areas to be improved in the Estonian sports system is the preparation and working conditions of coaches. In addition to the above, according to the National Audit Office, the current system of funding for top sport as a whole is neither feasible nor sustainable, thus causing additional costs and administrative burden for both applicants and applicants. The National Audit Office also considers that a situation where there is no legal basis for the distribution of money is unacceptable. The Ministry of Culture does not rely on the Sport Act 2005 or on the arrangements for allocating money adopted on the basis of it, but is based on criteria approved by the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry in 1997. The link between these criteria and the actual distribution of money is also unclear. We have five questions for the Minister of Culture. 21 members of the Central Party Group have signed the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U92	Thank you. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U93	Madam President! Real Social Democrats have an inquiry to address Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The subject is access to services in rural areas. Estonia's regional development strategy sets the aim of the country's regional policy measure set for a better guarantee of people's basic needs in every place of Estonia. In order to achieve this objective, it is considered necessary, inter alia, to increase and harmonise the options for work, education, various services and self-realisation. In recent times, cases have increased where public authorities or private companies are reducing the provision of services outside larger centres due either to excessive costs of public services or to the lack of profitability of private services. As a result of these processes, the difference between the quality of the living environment in different regions of Estonia increases and the possibilities to ensure balanced development on the territory of the country are reduced. On this subject, we have ten questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U94	Thank you. Please, my colleague Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U95	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the 44 members of the Riigikogu, who represent all four political groups represented in the Riigikogu, to hand over the draft statement of the Riigikogu "Publication of recognition to Estonian citizens." As this is a short draft statement, let me read it in full. "Proposal of the Riigikogu's statement "Expression of the declaration to the citizens of Estonia." Based on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and based on the fact that due to international law the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia occupied in the Second World War was not interrupted, the Riigikogu expresses its appreciation to the citizens of the Republic of Estonia who acted in the name of the de facto restoration of the Republic of Estonia during the years of the occupation of the Soviet Union or National Socialist Germany. The Riigikogu condemns the repressive policy of the Soviet Union and National Socialist Germany and the actions of those who have committed crimes against humanity in the service of these regimes, regardless of their nationality and the place where they were committed. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U96	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted one draft and three inquiries. If the draft complies with the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Ladies and gentlemen, Here's the news. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft Defence Forces Service Act, initiated on 6 February, Leading Commission, National Defence Committee; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act, initiated on 6 February, Leading Commission, National Defence Committee; thirdly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft law amending the laws adopted by a majority of the Riigikogu relating to the Defence Forces Service Act, initiated on 6 February, commission of state defence; fourthly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft law on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated on 6 February and the related amendment of other laws, Leading Commission, Legal Affairs Committee; Fifth, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Psychiatric Assistance Act, the Penal Register Act, the Penal Care Act and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated on 6 February, the leading committee of the Legal Affairs Committee; the Sixth, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Act on ratification of the European Social Charter, initiated on 6 February, the Committee on Social Affairs; seventhly, in the Group of the Estonian Central Party. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Social Welfare Act, initiated on 7 February, Committee on Social Affairs. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and the Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 85 delegates registered as present, 16 missing. I will now elaborate on today's agenda. Yesterday, we were in the middle of a discussion at first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, namely to ask questions to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U97	I would like to ask again the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee, Mr Tsahkna, to continue to answer questions. The first question is from my colleague, Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U98	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! This is the Commission's draft. Why does the Riigikogu run this bill in the wake and tail of a government that does not manage its affairs? Instead, a decision could be taken which would oblige the Government of the Republic to ensure a normal situation. Why don't we take such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U99	This legislative amendment seeks to ensure that, if the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is unable to take decisions, the decisions necessary for the day-to-day operation of the unemployment fund relating to the budget and also to the powers of the members of the Executive Board can still be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U100	Please, Mr Borodich, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum to this draft law shows that the draft amends the decision-making procedure of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, which falls under the exclusive competence of the Council. This was due to the absence of members of the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. But what if the Council's parties reach an agreement? In this case, will the processing of the bill be suspended in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U102	I very much hope that the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund will achieve its working capacity as if it were actually normal. However, this year is already under way, the budget has not been approved. A specific problem is coming up with a specific date, which is 15 April, when the contracts of all the members of the Governing Board will end. We must now, as legislator, anticipate situations and ensure that the state is always able to fulfil its constitutional duty to the people who are looking for work to help them. We're dealing with this bill in this spirit right now. However, if an agreement is indeed reached between you and the unemployment fund restores its judgment, I think we should consider introducing an alternative to budgetary decisions. In the case of sickness insurance, there is also such an option. We don't know what's gonna happen next year. In the case of this draft, we are currently only dealing with two issues, which concern the budget and the end of the Bureau's mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U103	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U104	Thank you. For me, a good waitress has the impression that this whole game is for one purpose only. As the Treasury is relatively empty, it is also necessary to take the dedicated money out of the unemployment fund and use it temporarily for other purposes. Can you argue with me? Prove otherwise!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U105	Good questioner, you've got it all wrong. If you read this bill carefully, you will see that this is nothing to do with the management of the unemployment fund's assets. This concerns the budget of the unemployment fund, its approval, as well as the question of how the possible situation can be resolved if the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is unable to take the necessary decisions in relation to the duties of members of the Executive Board. Then this decision-making power would go to the Government of the Republic, specifically the Minister of Social Affairs. I don't see the connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U106	Please, Mr Enn Frontland, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U107	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If any, what exclusive competences do the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund retain when this legislative amendment enters into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U108	Please, Mr Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U109	Good questioner, if you look at the Unemployment Insurance Act, it lists these competences for quite a long time. We are now talking about specific competences that would be transferred to the Government of the Republic in the case of secondary law. Paragraph 28 is supplemented by paragraph 4 as follows: "If the Council has not taken the decisions set out in paragraph 2 (9) to (11) of this section... " These relate specifically to the powers of the members of the Governing Board. These are the only questions we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U110	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, When reading this draft and its explanatory memorandum, the opinion that the government wants to keep the tax burden unreasonably high, under the cover of a label for the needs of the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund, deepens. This opinion has also been expressed by representatives of the Confederation of Employers. Is it necessary, in order to disprove such an evil view, to establish the principle that if the state, through its representatives on the board, has the right to manage or manage the unemployment fund and the sickness fund, it is imperative that the budget of these cashiers be balanced, just as the state budget needs to be balanced?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U111	Thank you, good questioner! This discussion has already been here once. This discussion can always start again, but right now I would focus on this particular draft. And the aim of this bill, as I have said very many times here, is that we need to ensure the daily work of the unemployment fund. These specific changes, which are set out in this draft law, do not concern the issue you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U112	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U113	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Problems with the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund actually occurred four months ago. Why are we only working on this now? And do you think that the Government of the Republic has done everything in its power to restore the functioning of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, within the framework of the current law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U114	I am glad that we are dealing with this issue here today, because it is not too late. I would certainly be pleased if we did not have to deal with this problem in this form. And it is essential to restore dialogue between the various parties, the government and the social partners, or a trilog of what anyone wants to call it. As long as this dialogue or trilog has not been restored, all parties, both the Government of the Republic and employers and employees, will have to make efforts to do so. This is precisely tripartite cooperation. I am sure that such situations can always be resolved better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U115	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U116	Thank you. Good performer! As narrow as you want to deal with this issue, we cannot do that. It's like you don't know the whole thing. We know that there are very large reserves in the unemployment fund, so-called double money compared to what is needed for the unemployed. Basically, we could increase or extend all kinds of unemployment benefits, but the government does not want to do so. I'm asking you, why? And second of all, if the government takes this money to run-to-order money, it's already his! So, what do they do with these sums? What are they going to spend on? Why did they even need to be taken over, and what schemes are behind it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U117	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U118	Good questioner! You held this discussion here earlier, if you remember, with this bill, which also covered all the other laws relating to the state budget procedure. That is why I do not want to open this issue here. Today's draft does not address this issue and these solutions. Our aim, I repeat, is to guarantee the day-to-day work of the unemployment fund with this amendment to the law that provides almost 50000 people with the assistance that the state has to provide to them in the constitutional search for a job. In fact, it helps many more people, including those who are family members of the unemployed, their loved ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U119	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! My question is to you as chairman of the committee: what can still be done now so that a normal dialogue can be restored with one of the social partners, the Confederation of Employers? I'd like you to come up with a few options.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U120	Please, colleague Valeri Korb, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U121	The dialogue begins when the parties communicate with each other. I think it would be elementary for the parties to gather at a common table and present their proposals at a common table. On this basis, there would also be a negotiating room. I would also like to remind you that the unemployment insurance rate for next year should soon be the subject of a dialogue, as well as a number of other issues that should be discussed between the various parties in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. I believe that these are the first steps that should be taken, and I hope that these steps will also come.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U122	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! Point 2 of this draft law provides that the budget of the unemployment fund is to be approved by the Council within 30 days of the entry into force of the Annual Budget Act, i.e. 1 January. In this regard, I would like to ask: what happens if the draft is adopted at the end of February?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U123	Thanks, that's a really good question! We have already discussed this briefly. In my opinion, the Commission should make it clear, as one amendment before reading the second, that the budget of the unemployment fund will be approved by the Council within 30 days of the publication of the Annual Budget Act in the Official Journal of the State. This would also be correct if there were some problems with the adoption of the budget or if we adopted the budget for next year earlier and it was published in the State's Official Journal. Then it is actually possible to make the relevant decisions before 1 January. That was a very relevant question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U124	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U125	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I have a purely technical question. If we look at this bill now, the name of the law is the law restricting the acquisition of immovable property. Perhaps it would sound better if the title of this law was "What doesn't get stuck, gets busted"?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U126	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U127	Thank you, good questioner! It seems that this is a matter for another item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We know that the unemployment fund has a board of directors and has its duties and responsibilities. The draft amendment to the Act states that if, due to inaction, the activities of the unemployment fund are significantly impeded, the right to take a decision will be transferred to the Government of the Republic. We know that according to the law, it is possible to appoint board members up to five, now there are three. My question is: can the government change the number of board members of the unemployment fund without a council?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U129	If this draft was adopted, the government would be transferred to a secondary right to appoint members of the management board of the unemployment fund. Indeed, up to five board members are currently foreseen. In the case of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, these rights would be transferred precisely in points 9 to 11, which I can read to you here. It doesn't extend to any other points. Therefore, the Government of the Republic is most likely responsible at that time for ensuring that the management of the unemployment fund can continue its work. So far, it has been understood that not five board members are required for this purpose, three are sufficient. I think it's gonna stay that way. I do not believe that there are any questions here, it is necessary to ensure the sustainability of the unemployment fund and the organisation of day-to-day work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U130	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U131	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In some ways, laws are also certain social agreements in society, especially those which affect society in a large part, just as this bill does. Here is the question: is it right that the large social partners, such as trade unions or employers, have been removed from the debate and their proposals have not been taken into account? How do you think this bill is correct in this sense or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U132	I do not agree that someone has removed the social partners from this work. It was the employer's own decision that they would call back their two representatives. In the case of one representative of the contractors, this is also their own decision to suspend their activities; they have not definitively withdrawn their representatives. I have repeatedly said it on this board, too, and I will stick to my view that this is not a good situation. However, such a solution is the creation of a legal guarantee that if dialogue is not restored or a solution is not found, the people for whom we are all jointly responsible here will not be deprived of the aid that the state must provide to them. This is not just a question of getting along, but the Republic of Estonia must guarantee these people the help of the state in seeking employment. That's the problem that I'm actually here for today. I really hope that this dialogue will be restored. It may be possible to move this dialogue to a wider area, just as the Health Insurance Fund, for example, has made it possible for the social partners to be represented by different representatives. I think this debate may also come up with this law. At the moment, however, there is a situation where the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund does not have a quorum and there is no way of making decisions. That is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U133	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U134	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! You rightly said that, in fact, the situation is very bad and the partners have left the so-called 'round table'. The fact that the parties have remained to negotiate with themselves has really led to a situation where the Estonian state has, in a certain sense, faced a new crisis, because the law did not provide for a situation in which partners leave the negotiating table. Now the Committee on Social Affairs has strongly intervened in resolving this situation and has taken a position in which it defends the positions of the Government of the Republic. Mention these arguments why the Social Affairs Committee is defending the Government's proposals, rather than giving certain parties the opportunity to resolve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U135	Thank you, good questioner! The Social Affairs Committee intervened here, not in the interests of the government or of employers or employees' representatives, but in the interests of people who live in Estonia and need the services of the unemployment fund. They are jobseekers, as well as employers who receive various grants to create jobs. This is the starting point for the strong intervention of the Social Committee. I have already said so many times here, and I repeat that we must guarantee the fulfilment of the obligations which the Constitution imposes on the State. If we knew the solution to getting the parties back to the table and to communicate normally with each other, we would definitely use it. I can say this, however, that the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on 25 January was convened by all parties. The situation is not hopeless.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U136	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President of the Commission. In my opinion, too, tripartite talks still need to be restored in order to resolve the problem. The Commission under your authority has presented to the government a more convenient option in the form of a draft, in which the government can decide for itself the budget and the management board. But why did the Social Affairs Committee not propose to automatically extend the mandate of the members of the Management Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund until the Supervisory Board had appointed a new Chairman and members of the Management Board? This is, as far as I know, a trade union proposal. Why did the Commission choose the government's position when drawing up its draft rather than meet the wishes of the trade unions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U138	Good questioner! I think that clarity and the search for clear solutions at the legislative level could be the culture on which we are based. But indeed, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation has sent such a proposal to the Commission and we will certainly discuss it when we prepare the draft for second reading. But yes, such a proposal has indeed arrived. Here we need to make sure that this confused situation is not prolonged, but that we have some solutions. At the same time, I would remind you that one important reason is the approval of the current year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U139	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U140	Thank you. Good performer! To get the parties to the table, you have to call them first. I think the Prime Minister should do this, but it has not been done so far. I know the union chairman pressed himself to Ansip, but without success. We had employers going to the group today and telling us how the situation really is. You didn't want to introduce the trade unions and others' amendments yesterday. We've had them at the committee, at an emergency meeting. Would you, however, state the positions of both the Confederation of Trade Unions, the TALO and the Confederation of Employers, precisely in relation to this draft, and also talk about the problems that emerged at these meetings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U141	As the good questioner said, all these letters, all these proposals, have been distributed to the members of the Committee on Social Affairs. There's nothing secret here. As I said, we come to all these proposals at second reading. We will then also make the views of the Social Affairs Committee known. There are different suggestions. There are further suggestions, for example, in the letter of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, signed by the Chairman of the Board, Meelis Paavel, who specifically asks for the tasks delegated to the government to be specified. And there's a letter from the chairman of the board of TALO. These letters are long. I urge you to familiarise yourself with all of them and, through the representatives of your group, to make your views known in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U142	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U143	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As I recall, this attempt to restore dialogue lasted a little more than 50 minutes in the Commission and, frankly, it is very clear to us who these social partners are. We know them by name and by face. It is as if the social partner is trying to engage in dialogue with the country. In fact, if this whole mess-out has been created by one minister and indirectly responsible for it by another minister, but the dialogue is held at Commission level, do you think it is adequate and correct? Would it not make sense to restore this dialogue initially, for example, at the level of the Minister for Finance and then to move to where it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U144	Good questioner! I fully agree with the statement that the Government of the Republic is a dialogue partner. The dialogue must be conducted between the Government of the Republic and the social partners, as is also provided for by the composition of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. However, I do not think that we can just stand by and hope that the dialogue will recover if we see a real-life situation on a real date, that date is 15 April, when the mandate of the members of the board expires and then say, for example, two days before that or two days after that, that we could still have done something. In this hall, the question was, couldn't we have done something sooner? I think that, in the case of such a crisis, the right time is now for us to react; we can calmly, here, discuss this subject, make these minimum necessary decisions at the level of the law, in order to ensure that the services of the unemployment fund continue to be provided. I also recall that the purpose of the unemployment fund is to help our own people here in Estonia, who are in a difficult situation. These issues, which are up here today and which have created this difficult situation between the parties to the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, are only part of the issues that the Unemployment Insurance Fund should address. We are responsible for all these people, as I said, for almost 50,000 people. A few years ago, there were many, many more of these people. They have to get help, and it is our job to find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U145	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U146	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, That's right, I was wrong about the bill earlier. I am so deeply concerned about the next item that I can only think about it. But that's it. That statement by Joseph Toots actually applies to this bill. We are talking about the need to restore dialogue, although the parties are in a deep conflict. This usually requires some preliminary work. We should talk to each party and put some restrictions on it. This means that there must be a system of starting points on which people can agree. Do you have an idea of what these three parties should give up in order to achieve some kind of result so that the dialogue can come back?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U147	Good questioner! It's a difficult question for me. This is in the sense that, in fact, all three parties could be asked what would be the conditions under which they would be willing to continue the dialogue with each other. It's hard for me to say today. I just hope that the parties will come back to the table, because there are a lot of questions to discuss. I am thinking of the same issues that have created this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U148	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U149	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! You're scaring us here because if the council doesn't go together for six months, for example, the unemployment fund doesn't give money to the unemployed anymore, the regional departments disappear, the whole thing goes underground. I don't believe it. There is, for example, a procedure for replacing the chairman of the board, there are a bunch of directors, regional departments, officials, the corresponding amounts have been allocated, the budget is entirely there. The fact that there is no protocol decision on the part of the Council does not mean that the money will disappear. Please explain to me: if the Council does not really go together for six months, where will the unemployment fund go with all its assets and officials? So where does this budget go? Is Minister Ligi really buying tanks for this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U150	Good questioner! The problem which most concerns the day-to-day operation of the unemployment fund is that on 15 April the mandate of all members of the Executive Board will end. It relates so much to the Council that, at present, only the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has jurisdiction over the tasks relating to the employment contracts of the members of the Board, the appointment of new people and the removal of some of them. That's the point. Each of the three ends of the mandate.. there are currently three members of the Executive Board. If there are no people on the board, the daily work of the unemployment fund is very serious. The indecisiveness of the Council may not have so much to do with the day-to-day work, but there are certain tasks which are solely the competence of the Council, such as the discharge of the budget. It simply makes the activities of the unemployment fund inflexible. The unemployment fund must be based on the previous year's budget and be able to use the monthly 1/12 of this budget. It is not flexible and does not adequately meet the needs of our labour market. That's the problem. The other party specifically has the powers of the members of the Governing Board, and this is solely the competence of the Governing Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U151	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U152	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I will continue with your answer, and I will also talk about the Council. I promise myself such a little speculation. Suppose, in the near future, the social partners do not agree to return to the Council because they do not agree with their proposals within the framework of this draft. They will not find a way to pursue this dialogue in the future. How do you think that this council can then exist in the future in order to fulfil its responsibilities and to be with the board as well as on the balance sheet?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U153	Thank you. That's a very good question. Currently, § 29 of the Unemployment Insurance Act specifically mentions these partners. These are the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions and the trade unions of civil servants, as well as the Confederation of Estonian Employers. Perhaps there is a place for discussion here, we need to think about whether the law must include specific partners or whether they may be more widely mentioned in the law. After all, there could be a situation like the Health Insurance Fund, where a number of social partners are represented. This is a possible discussion place. The question is addressed to the very right place.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U154	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Well, there's clearly a fight in the air. How do you, as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, view the difference between the parties in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund or, let us say, the dispute to be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U156	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U157	Good questioner! Prerequisites must be created for this. And the basic assumption is that the parties communicate with each other, that they gather at a single table and present their views to each other, their perceptions. It's all about communication. So the basic assumption is sitting at a common table.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U158	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! The President of the Republic has said that the potential nationalisation of the unemployment fund would significantly undermine the willingness and mutual trust of the social partners. This bill undoubtedly further nationalises the unemployment fund. What is your position: how does this legislative amendment affect the possibility of the social partners sitting at a common table after the adoption of this draft? Will the adoption of this draft favour it or will it make it even more difficult?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U159	Thank you, good questioner! In no way does this draft state the unemployment fund. The Unemployment Insurance Fund is neither nationalised nor privatized. The Unemployment Insurance Fund is a legal person governed by public law which has very specific objectives defined by its law and its rules of procedure laid down by law. This bill does not concern this, the unemployment fund continues in its former form.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U160	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U161	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I do, looking at all this side by side, have the impression that there is some kind of vertical power being built here, as in some countries people love to express themselves. I understand from your previous response that you see it as being forced by the Committee on Social Affairs to do the unfinished work of the government. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U162	Good questioner! I see it this way that the Social Affairs Committee was forced to intervene in order to ensure that the unemployment fund was operating in accordance with the needs of the Estonian people. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U163	Please, Mr Kalla, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! This draft is just like the many legislative changes made here at the end of the year in cluster laws, one good step away from democracy and towards a unitary state, to which we are now moving at an accelerated rate. As a representative of the Social Affairs Committee, you are certainly here on the government's mission and, unfortunately, you have come to fulfill the role of the rubber seal, which we are still being given. I guess that's right. The question arises as to when does the government have the idea that the Riigikogu should be disbanded and that it should appoint a group, who will then fully support its proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U165	This is the time for questions, not negotiations! Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U166	Since I didn't hear the question, I only hope that your dreams will not come true.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U167	Thank you, Madam President. There is no need to go much further in this draft; there is a great deal of technical failure and signs of haste, such as the start of the budget, and so on. There is only one day for amendments, while the Rules of Procedure say that ten days is a good practice. Is the technical failure still in the law because of the rush, or is there still plans to correct this a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U168	Good questioner! All technical doubts will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U169	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U170	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I look at these legislative changes and so understand that if the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund does not have a quorum, the Government of the Republic will assume the right to take certain decisions. And it also says here that "The right and obligation to conclude an employment contract with the Chairman of the Management Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and a member of the Management Board on the basis of the decision of the Government of the Republic on behalf of the Unemployment Insurance Fund shall be transferred to the Minister of Social Affairs as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Occupational Unemployment Insurance Fund. " Will this condition apply when the Council is not competent, or will the Government of the Republic retain a greater right to decide on the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and to intervene in the work of the Council when it sees fit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U171	Good questioner! The Government of the Republic will have that right if the Council has failed in this matter, in those points I am referring to paragraphs 9, 10 and 11, contained in subsection 28 (4), which are specifically the appointment and dismissal of the Chairman of the Board, the appointment and removal of the members of the Executive Board, the conclusion of an employment contract with the Chairman of the Management Board and a member of the Management Board and the decision to lodge a claim against them on time. Then these powers are vested in the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U172	Please, Mr Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! One very insightful observation is that if there is a fight in the air, you have to sit down and start offering solutions. I wonder what solutions were proposed by the various parties of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund at the Social Affairs Committee meeting on 25 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U174	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U175	Good questioner! The Social Committee meeting expressed its views on a number of issues. One issue was the issue of managing the assets of the unemployment fund, for which a single solution had not been proposed. Employers discussed this direction as to whether the management of the property could be of a fixed-term nature. Various proposals were made. However, employers also expressed the view that the approval of the budget could really go into the competence of the Government of the Republic if the Council was unable to take decisions. But there were different views.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U176	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'm not going to ask you about the purpose or the background of this law, I'm going to ask you about the text directly. I am concerned by the wording that if, due to the absence or unlawful conduct of a member of the board of directors, the activities of the unemployment fund are significantly impeded, the responsibility will go to the Government of the Republic. For the sake of the report, I ask, since lawyers may at some point begin to argue about this in the future: what was the unlawful conduct that significantly impeded? This is not explicitly explained in the explanatory memorandum. How do you explain those words? Normally, in other laws, the terms "significantly obstructed" or "significantly harmed" etc. are for the court to decide, but in this case it is the place of executive power. What exactly does that phrase mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U177	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U178	This change, a good questioner, is reflected in the reason that, at present, all activities relating to the termination of the mandate of the members of the Executive Board for various reasons are solely for the Council to decide. If, at such a time as the situation described by you arises, the Council has no decision-making power, someone will have to make that decision, and in that case, under the authority of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Social Affairs will do so as a member of the Supervisory Board of the post-employment unemployment fund. That's the idea that this change has been made about. As far as unlawful conduct is concerned, I am not very competent to explain the specific circumstances to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U179	Thank you. Were the coalition ambassadors in the Social Affairs Committee a little uncomfortable and perhaps offended by the government? After all, the government has not done its job and, because of its stubbornness, they must be the ones who give the final death blow to the social partnership in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U180	Good questioner! That was a very good estimate. I don't want to go with them. I suggest that in the work that we do in this Chamber, no offense should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U181	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U182	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Today we are constantly talking about what we want to change with this bill, but we do not really want to talk about what is behind it. Hence my question: for what reason did the tripartite unemployment fund in the Council get into a fight, and why is the Council's decision-making still not guaranteed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U183	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U184	Good questioner! In my opinion, you have asked exactly the same questions in this Chamber from the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister, who, as representatives of the government, is one of the parties to this social dialogue. I think that the parties have also made public what their views are divided. I think we're all familiar with them, I wouldn't go over them here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U185	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Margus! Please tell me whether the Commission also discussed the fact that this is a tax dispute. The law was done with the approval of employers and the trade union, increased social tax from 33% to 37.2%, said it would be done on a temporary basis and the money would be shared together. The government now has the money and the others are left empty-handed. There's a fight about money! The coalition raised taxes by 4.2%, but still confirms that it has not raised taxes. In fact he raised a serious tax, raised a social tax. That's why it's a fight. That's why they ask questions. Did you just talk about why, why, why? But it's a question of money!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U186	Good questioner! We did not discuss this issue in this form at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs. I mean your claim that social tax has been raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U187	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U188	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! As Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, do you intend to change the membership of the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U189	Good questioner! The appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board is clearly within the competence of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U190	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U191	Thank you, Madam President. Good Margus! I'm still gonna stick to my question. While the draft law is being debated in the Commission, when adopting the text, the Commission is responsible for ensuring that the text is as comprehensible as possible and can be easily interpreted in the future. I ask you differently then: please give an example, which may consist of the activities of an unemployment fund that is significantly impeded by illegal activities. I understand if there's no board member or anything like that, but that's a direct unlawful act. I ask this because, in future, there will be no problems for the interpretations of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U192	Yeah, I'll give you permission. Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U193	Good questioner! I don't exactly understand the question. Are we talking about members of the board or members of the supervisory board or about the illegal activity of the supervisory board or what specific point are you referring to? I can't answer that question right now. I don't know if it's possible to ask a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U194	Thank you. This is § 1 of the draft law, which states that § 28 is supplemented by paragraph 4 as follows: Now I read precisely in the middle: 'the activity of the unemployment fund is significantly impeded by the absence or unlawful conduct of a member of the management board'. What is literally meant by this unlawful conduct? What may be the reason that the government takes the right and obligation to make decisions so that it is not arbitrary?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U195	Good question! Now I've got the place you're referring to. This must be done with illegal activities, which must also be declared illegal under the laws of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U196	Please, Mr Laas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U197	Thank you. In the case of this draft, now that we are going, I would say, with an ax to the social partnership model that has been in place so far, have we seen how it works in other European countries? Is what we are going to decide here today even European?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U198	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U199	Good questioner! The Social Affairs Committee has so far considered this issue as a particular problem for the Republic of Estonia, which we need to solve. It is certainly possible to compare how different issues have been resolved in different countries. But within this particular subject, we have not addressed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U200	Thank you. The social partnership is certainly a very important principle, especially for the Committee on Social Affairs. I therefore ask: Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, what is your assessment whether this law amending the law would rather improve or rather worsen the state's relations with trade unions and also with employers' representatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U201	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U202	Good questioner! I am not here before the Riigikogu to give the assessments that may happen in the future. I hope that relations between employers, employees and the Government of the Republic will improve. It's in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U203	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! It is extremely urgent for the coalition to process this draft in order to justify otherwise such a short deadline for amendments. How do you feel about the bill being too rushed? Trade unions and employers have promised to come up with their own proposals in the near future on how to restore the functioning of the unemployment fund without hindrance. Why don't we wait for their suggestions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U204	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U205	Good questioner! It is, as always, the Riigikogu has different opinions. A few moments ago, I was asked if we were too late. I would remind you that today is the first reading of this bill. We will be able to read it at least twice more in this Chamber, and we have also postponed the deadline for amendments. At yesterday's session, the item was not closed, and I intended to inform everyone about it after answering the questions. The Committee on Social Affairs last night extended the deadline for amendments, was approved by the Bureau, and is now scheduled for 9 February at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U206	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Margus! You said you didn't discuss this tax increase from 33% to 37.2%. But did you look at this as a coalition partner from the point of view that you have been leading the coalition? The aim has still been to involve citizens and the whole wider society in society, but now the law you are proposing is like the law of the totalitarian state. The state simply raises the special levy into its own wallet and does what it wants. At first he just balanced the budget, now these amounts cover his cash flows, without discussing with the parties at all. That's the point of the law. Did you discuss this from this point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U207	Good questioner! I suggest you read the text. This draft, which is before you today, does not deal in any way with the issues you referred to, i.e. the level of unemployment insurance or the management of the unemployment fund's assets. This particular legislative amendment gives rise to the possibility that, if the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is unable to take decisions, the activities of the Unemployment Insurance Fund will continue to be such as to help those who are looking for work on the labour market and need public assistance. This also applies to all other services that the unemployment fund must provide.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U208	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U209	Thank you. An extraordinary meeting of the Social Affairs Committee took place last week at 12 noon on Wednesday. It lasted an hour because the hallwork was followed here. The social partners were also present there. Then the text of this bill did not exist. This text appeared on the committee's table at 9 a.m. on Thursday morning and you, as chairman of the committee, have already handed it over to the proceedings. This is a pretty thick explanatory text, and, forgive me, it says here that the draft is prepared by the chairman of the committee, Margus Tsahkna, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs. I think this text has come from the Ministry of Social Affairs. Why did you consider it necessary that this text not come normally from the ministry and from the normal procedure, but agreed to a fast-track procedure where the members of the Commission saw the text at 9 a.m. and you already put it into procedure at 10 a.m.?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U210	Good questioner! I think that this text is completely adequate and reflects the objectives that the Committee on Social Affairs wants to achieve. I didn't exactly understand the substance of your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U211	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U212	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! My question is probably because I have worked in the Riigikogu for less than a year. That's why I have a purely technical question. I really believe that your heart hurts for the 50,000 people that this law is supposed to protect. But I don't want to believe that the heart of the Minister of Social Affairs or other members of the government will not hurt for them either. Could this draft not have been submitted to the Riigikogu's desk by the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Government of the Republic? Perhaps it will also clarify the answer to Mrs Kadri Samson's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U213	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U214	Good questioner! According to our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, as well as other laws, the Government of the Republic is indeed able to initiate laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Who do you think it might have been, who didn't do something, and has allowed a situation like this to occur that we need to discuss the matter so long and thoroughly today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U216	Good questioner! We are now dealing with the fact that we are trying to resolve a law-level situation when the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund does not have a decision-making power. And this logic says that, if the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is not currently in a decision-making position, it is because of the misunderstanding between the parties to the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, the question, the quarrel or whatever we call it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U217	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U218	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I will try to formulate Mr Samson's question more precisely. The essence of the question was this: the government did all the work and the Social Affairs Committee launched the draft law as a matter of urgency. Why didn't you let the government initiate this bill, but you did it yourself, working like that? That was the content of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U219	Good questioner! There are many assessments on your question, and I do not want to go along with these assessments. The Committee on Social Affairs initiated this draft exactly as our Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides. That was the decision of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U220	Please, Kalle Laane, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U221	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, chairman of the committee! I'll come back to your answer. You said you thought the council had failed to do anything. Would you elaborate on the council being a broad circle of individuals? Why don't we get a little more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U222	Good questioner! The problem is that there is no quorum on the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. There are six representatives, and I think all six should be able to communicate with each other. There is no communication today for all six.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U223	Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U224	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! However, at the end of this long dialogue, I will ask: why is targeted money, which is really unemployment insurance money, used to patch up the country's cash flows?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U225	Good questioner! I'd still come back to this bill. It does not deal absolutely with the management of these cash flows in the form you have in mind. The aim of our draft is to resolve the situation that has arisen because of the indecisiveness of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and to provide for the possibility of those people receiving assistance in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U226	Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U227	When will the unemployment fund return to normal work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U228	Good Eiki, I'm happy to tell you. As soon as possible, I hope. But I don't know the right answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U229	Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! As far as the content of this law is concerned, there is one question that has raised disputes. I'm sure you've been following it through the media. In particular, Paragraph 28 (2) (4) states that the Government has the right to control the rational use of funds. Did you, in the Commission, analyse this in essence, what it means and what results this decision may have?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U231	Good questioner! This draft, which is before you, relates to § 28 (4) which deals with subsection 2 (9) to (11) of the same section. They concern the mandate of the members of the Governing Board and their termination. I hope I understand the question correctly, but in my understanding, this law does not change the current situation in this sense. It falls within the competence of the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U232	Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U233	In § 1, we grant the Government of the Republic the right to check the unemployment fund Do we therefore give the Government of the Republic the right to control the rational use of resources as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U234	Good questioner! According to this draft, the day-to-day work is still managed by the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. With this draft, we will give the government secondary powers of decision on very specific issues concerning the discharge of the budget, as well as the decisions set out in paragraphs 9 to 11 above, in the event that the Council itself has not been able to take these decisions. In this sense, nothing is automatically withdrawn from the competence of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. If the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has not been able to make these decisions, then the secondary right will be in the hands of the Government of the Republic. That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U235	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U236	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The war between the unemployment fund and the government has been going on for four months. If we recall this sequence of quarrels, the government first tried to extend the government's arm from the public unemployment fund. If it didn't work out, trade unions and employers were run over with a roller, passed over, by the way, from one of the flagships of Estonian social protection. Now the law will soon be passed that the government itself will appoint and recall the members of the Council and will also approve the budget. Looking back, we are confident that the government's aim was, at the outset, to create an inconvenient dispute between the social partners. There was nothing better to hope for, because if the government wanted to force the money of the unemployment fund, i.e. the reserves collected jointly by employers and workers, i.e. nationalise, expropriate, conflict had to follow. Secondly, when employers and employees clearly saw that the cashier had accumulated so much money that unemployment insurance could be reduced, the government did not notice it, even though the government still has to rely on the proposal of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund when setting the payment rate. This is the exclusive competence of the Council, but the current activities of the government simply place the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund in the role of accountant. If unemployment were to increase by even 100% today, although this would not happen, it would continue with the money collected and be left over because the reserve is twice as full. Even if, at the peak of unemployment, the tax had been reduced from 4.2% to 3%, we would still have collected reserves. The government has also cheated on employers because before the euro came, they were asked to raise the payment in order to show more reserves. It was later allowed to fall, but it has not been done, as employers say. However, for the people, this would have meant an increase of about over a billion dollars and an increase in turnover that could have brought about economic recovery. In fact, we saw that the government needed this foreign and dedicated money for the unemployed to cover up the poor budget and patch up budget holes, to provide liquidity instead of borrowing. After all, the explanatory memorandum says that this money goes to ensure the liquidity of the state. This is about to become the government's free money, as Harri Tali, Chairman of the Board of the Confederation of Trade Unions, has stated, it will be the government's pocket bank. It is a disguised taxation. However, as a reporter from last week's Estonian Day Paper, Lauri Tankler, came out of the working document of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the government's plan was even more insidious and much longer-term than it seemed. The Ministry envisages a new scheme for the payment of incapacity-for-work pensions, according to which their payment will be postponed to the unemployment fund. We know that the Ministry of Social Affairs has long been thinking about what to do with the permanent inability to work, there are many of them, and more and more money is needed there. The government doesn't really care why the number of these people has increased. Long-term unemployed people are without health insurance, are unable to buy medicine, diseases become chronic, and that is where the next step is disability pensions. Consequently, cuts and changes to the system are needed. The number of people who may lose part of their income because they are employed and receive disability pensions at the same time has also gone through the newspaper. You have to do such an unpopular thing with strangers' hands, the unemployment fund and expert doctors. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U237	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U238	That might have been the real reason why half of the fights were caused and these things were made by force. However, the additional need for money requires that the payment is not reduced, but increased, and it is good that there are people in the Council too. But most importantly, instead of raising income tax or making it gradual, taxes are raised so that you can tell people about the tax-free Fridays of the fairy tale and say that our taxes are not raised and more money comes into the pocket. By the way, since money goes to other things and not to the unemployed, this is a disguised increase in income tax. The temporary tax increase has been made permanent. And more. If you, the right side of this Chamber, say that public finances are in order and that the budgetary balance is the guarantee, I ask why you are not in favour of a balance in the unemployment fund so that we raise as much money as we need. The faction of the Estonian Centre Party certainly cannot accept an amendment to the law, which gives the right to appoint or withdraw members of the Management Board of the unemployment fund to the government. After all, we can change the law to extend the mandate of the Chairman of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund and the members of the Board in mid-April. Nor can we agree that the government will be given the right to approve the budget of the unemployment fund. The Government of the Republic shall not acquire sole decision-making powers in a tripartite body. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposes that this draft be rejected because the Reform Party and the IRL have chosen to amend the Unemployment Insurance Act instead of restoring cooperation, which replaces the Unemployment Insurance Fund Council with the Government of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U239	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'll ask for more time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U241	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U242	Ladies and gentlemen, This bill has arisen before us because the dialogue became a monologue. At this point, my respect for the members of the power union, who are in the hall, this visual picture is a good testimony to the way in which it works. Indeed, dialogue can be understood in many ways. I have had the honour of being a member of a government that came to power after the Riigikogu elections, and even before ministers could take an oath from this remote control, this government took an informal session. There was a topic. This tripartite agreement concluded by the government that had left power, which the new government, which is coming into power, was not entirely clearly capable of fulfilling. No government would have been able to carry it out. The previous government made it in hopes of reaching the Riigikogu, but they didn't get anywhere, this party no longer exists. Please note: even before the oath was given, it was discussed that there has been one agreement and that what will become of it because it cannot be fulfilled. The decision was simple: it must be renegotiated. They sat down and talked it over and it was unpleasant. Everyone realized that this government had nothing to do with the treaty, that even the MPs who were in this Chamber voted against it. But it was a normal part of communication, and that's what everyone understood. I wrote the first piece on this subject (today, by the way, 8 February 2012) in May last year. The Minister of Finance then invited me to see him in an old acquaintance and conducted a briefing on unemployment insurance, health insurance and the nationalisation of reserves. We didn't have a dialogue, he said he knew very well that I was against it. We had a brief argument, and I was able to predict some way where this thing was going. By the way, very many people in Estonia are seriously concerned about what the situation is. As strange as it may seem, the President, with his surprise visit, has legalised the activities of the unemployment fund. They comply with the law and pay out subsidies according to the law, but they do not have any more grounds. Would you like to work in an establishment like this? I'm asking, how sure would you feel in there? I myself have been quite brief, but in many debates where a solution has been sought. There's been some very big ideas. Even those that need a longer discussion, such as making unemployment insurance, which is now compulsory, compulsory insurance, and thus bringing him out of this right to balance the government. Let it be said to you once again that the point is that we show off our loan numbers, that is 9.3 or 5.5, in a situation where the European average is 80 and some countries next year make sure that it is 200. You realize it's, I don't know, ugly at least. In fact, the government is currently borrowing from this insurance. Indeed, this is not reflected in our statistics, but this is the case in terms of content. Let it be said to you that in the negotiations that had been held on this whole issue, the Prime Minister never considered it necessary to invite employers and trade unions to come to him in order to discuss it together in a tripartite way. It was done one at a time. I have no record of whether or not the Prime Minister has met employers in the first place. At least the union leaders invited him to come and talk to them in the form of briefings. So there's a monologue. This monologue continues, and the idea of how one thing should be organized is horrible. The Committee on Social Affairs was still the most civilist of all government forces and invited the social partners to come to it. I had the honour of being an alternate at this meeting, and I have to say that what I saw there has not been seen before in the Committee on Social Affairs. You invite the social partners to the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and the chairman of the committee puts a logical question: 'Mr employers, what do you think of this situation? " Gentlemen's employers answer what they think, and then the MP in the government union asks: " Is this an ultimatum? " I'm sorry to both the manager and all of you, but what the hell are you talking about? Then why do you even invite this person there? Put yourself in a position where you're called somewhere and they say we want to know what you think. You go, you say what you think, and then they ask if it's an ultimatum. What are you talking about? If this is the way of dialogue, then such a bill will be born. Good MPs from the League of Power! Today you act just like the Riigikogu sometimes... Trouble with us, diplomatically speaking. Those brothers and sisters you have now ministers, they are with your mercy and with your support. You're their bosses. This is how the Estonian state is structured. And if the Riigikogu has anything to decide today, it can take the decision that the Government of the Republic must comply with the laws in force by that date and by that date, a point and everything. In the Commission, a young colleague from the Reform Party asks what happens if he does not comply. What's gonna happen? Steps back on his own or gets taken off and that's it. It's as simple as that. You can continue with the same coalition, but with people who are able to communicate. If you have people in government who are only able to listen to themselves, there's nothing to do with them anyway. I apologize for using the word in a foreign language, but maybe some younger ones can understand. There is a meaningless Prime Minister sitting in this sense who can't bring employers and trade unions to his desk at the same time. I've been accused of Nestor being pissed off lately. Of course it's grumpy! We're doing some big negotiations in the country, working together on some sort of thing that works, and then someone comes in and just pours sand in it. If we look at the bill itself, Anvelt's questions were God's right, such as the election of the board that is now there. There are now three members, the Council has decided so. The law says up to five. The minister goes to the Council, even if all the parties are present, and says: I think there must be two more members here, and I will leave their names unspoken, so there might be more. The rest of the Council says, "Hey, don't. Under this section, this question goes to a meeting of the Government and, in order not to be prevented, two more members are appointed. That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U243	Dear waitress, your time is now full!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U244	Yeah, I'm done. I'm sorry I went over time! I will conclude with the proposal to reject this draft at first reading as far as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U245	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more requests for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. The Bureau has received two proposals: the Estonian Central Party Group proposes to reject the draft law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 171 after the first reading and the Social Democratic Party Group also proposes to reject the draft law 171 at first reading. As the content of the proposals is identical, we will deal with them in a single vote, i.e. we will put them to the vote at once. Let's get ready for the voting procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Social Democratic Party to reject the draft law amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance 171 after the first reading. Please take a stand and vote. Forty-two, against 50. The proposal was not supported and has therefore been rejected. First reading of the bill is complete. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U246	Good manager! Here is the case that the Riigikogu plenary has not been told the deadline for amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U247	I'm sorry! Thank you very much for this comment. The deadline for the submission of draft 171 amendments is set at 10 a.m. on 9 February 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U248	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the next item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law 108 on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U249	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, If one of us or one of you sees a drowning person and he has a chance to throw him a lifeline, hopefully he won't be able to find out what nationality that person is, what color his passport is, what nationality he has. It's moral behavior, it's normal behavior, people have to be helped! When we see a person get hit by a car, hopefully we'll act like normal people, call an ambulance, give first aid. With this bill, we had the opportunity to throw the same lifeline to thousands of people. We have been talking about this for years. We have already approached the solution to this problem once, and the motives that were drained out of our hands still left it unsolved. This law will probably be passed today, but in my eyes, in the eyes of my colleagues, it is completely immoral. We had a chance to help people, but we didn't. I do not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U250	Thank you. Please, any more requests? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law 108 on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Please take a stand! In favour of 52, 23 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U251	We are going to the third item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. As rapporteur, Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, is in the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm in front of you...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U253	Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U254	It's okay, I understand that the passionate subject is just over, and it's probably a bit exciting. My bill probably doesn't cause that much passion. I am before you with a government bill, which involves amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act. The amendment is necessary to address the problems encountered in the system of collecting packaging and packaging waste. To sum up briefly, no new principles are being introduced, but rather the organisation of an existing national judicial area. In principle, this bill can be divided into two parts. The first part deals with the issue of the agricultural film, which has been prepared in close cooperation with my good colleague, the Minister for Agriculture, and this concerns amendments to the Waste Act. The second part concerns the additions and amendments to the Packaging Act. Both in short turns. According to the current law, agricultural film, such as silo-balloon film, is a package, which means that it is subject to all the requirements of the Packaging Act. For example, an agricultural film editor, a bagel wrapper for the current law, is a packaging company. The legislative amendment before you simply removes agricultural film from the Packaging Act and extends the list of problematic products laid down in the Waste Act to which agricultural plastics are now added. When a legislative amendment enters into force, the principle of producer responsibility applies to agricultural plastics as a problem product. Therefore, the requirements of the Packaging Act no longer apply to roll silage, but to the producer's obligations under the Waste Act for the management of waste from problem products. From now on, it will be collected by agricultural plastic manufacturers and distributors and will have to be re-used according to a recovery rate of 70%. The draft regulation providing for this amendment is attached to the draft. At present, only roll silage is covered by the Packaging Act. This is, in fact, only a part of the agricultural plastic used, the variety of which is much, much wider, such as greenhouse film, tranches, etc. They are collected now, but they are not recycled, but are handled in a completely different way. So, unfortunately, much of the reusable material is lost. It must be said that the views of other EU Member States on agricultural plastics have also changed and are no longer considered as packaging. The second part of the draft law, as I mentioned in the introduction, concerns not agricultural film but packaging. The amendment introduces a provision in the Waste Act, which will result in more effective control of shipments of waste to Estonia. Where a shipment of packaging waste weighs more than four kilos, it shall be accompanied by the relevant information, including an agreement with the waste business operator, in order to be able to identify what is being done with the consignment of packaging to be imported, where it will finally reach out. The restriction is also laid down in the law currently in force, except that this restriction starts from a shipment of 20 kilograms. In addition, the amendment to the Packaging Act provides for a period of two years, i.e. 24 months, during which the consumer or end-user is entitled to return and recover the deposit upon completion of the placing on the market of the package with the deposit, after the change in the strip code or the change in the deposit mark. In 25 years' time, then, after the package is placed on the market, it will no longer be possible to go with the same package and recover the deposit, but we will set a limit of two years during which the guarantee can be recovered. The amendment is necessary in particular in order to mitigate once again the economic risks associated with imported packages whose bar codes are registered in the Estonian register. An amendment is also necessary for the secure packaging system to operate smoothly in the packaging register. In cases where the packaging undertaking ceases to use the label or then places the packaging on the market or places a new product on the market instead of the old product, the product bearing the old label shall be removed from the packaging register in the future. We now have, for example, a situation where there are around 3600 registered product packages in the deposit system's packaging register, of which around 2000 are active, i.e. those currently produced and placed on the market, and about 1600 are those that are no longer produced or are no longer placed on the market. This change is necessary, because it is currently a matter of importing such quite high-risk packaging into Estonia from Latvia in particular, but possibly from elsewhere as well. Packages that are no longer sold in Estonia may be sold at the same time, for example, in Latvia, where it could end up in the Estonian return system, but the deposit money has been outstanding in Estonia. So in this respect too, the law will be clarified. The current Packaging Act does not currently regulate the obligations of packaging companies outside recycling organisations in respect of the deposit mark. The draft will now include an obligation for them to notify the Ministry of the Environment in writing with their deposit of the labelling of the package before it is placed on the market. To sum up, this is a necessary and good draft, which will make the situation both in the area of packaging and in the case of agricultural film clearer and more effective control. I am asking for this bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U255	Thank you very much. You've been asked questions. Jaanus Tamkivi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U256	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The changes to the pawn-packing system are also largely due to the fact that countries are in very different situations. Our southern neighbours said quite a few years ago that they would also implement a system of pawns immediately, because it has worked well in Estonia and ensured very good packaging collection. Do you have any information on how far they have come with this and when there is hope that we should not adopt legislative amendments because the situation in neighbouring countries is so different in the market for covered packaging?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U257	The current change is mainly due to the situation where packages with an Estonian code are also sold in Latvia. These packages with a code issued in Estonia are brought to Estonia, in a simplified or figurative way, into the Estonian tarot machines and the money that has never been put on the market in Estonia is taken out of there, i.e. essentially the system is deceived. This is what this change will end and what controls will get tougher. However, I do not have detailed information on the current situation in Latvia. I would not like to argue for my Latvian colleague right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U258	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U259	Good manager! Good waitress, first of all, thank you for your very good ideas. But I have a little question. Paragraph 21 (10) is amended to read: "The amount of security lodged shall be returned when the end-user or the consumer delivers a reasonable amount of packaging to which the deposit has been established, to the place of sale of the goods or to a designated place in its immediate vicinity. " What is this reasonable quantity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U260	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum also provides an explanation for this, so that it can be read by everyone in the explanatory memorandum. In particular, a reasonable quantity refers to the quantity that can be physically received and for which, for example, the machines set up for the same reception are physically capable. But when you look at the explanatory statement, there's a little bit more and more of that explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U261	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U262	Thank you. Honourable waitress! What is the basis for this data that so many such packages come to Estonia from Latvia and Lithuania and that fraud takes place on this basis? Are these the claims of the EPP itself, or are specific checks carried out? I ask in this sense that I do not want to cover up the job, that is, those who work there are themselves cheating and now trying to push the problem on Latvia. How carefully have you checked the information you have been given?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U263	Thank you. If you have any evidence that someone is cheating internally, I would very much ask you to pass that information on to the relevant bodies. It would then be possible to verify if such data really exists. This amendment is based, inter alia, on the inspection carried out by the inspection. So this is not a ceiling claim that fraud in this form has been tried, and not only tried, but probably committed. Therefore, this data is also the result of the verification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U264	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U265	Thank you. The fourth point of the amendment to the Waste Act contains a list of agricultural plastics, but it also states that except packaging. Would you open up a little bit of what in this case means "except packaging"? It's got something to do with silo-ball film, and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U266	Thank you. Once again, the last paragraph of page 2 of the explanatory memorandum also explains that packages still include, for example, packages of seeds, plant protection products, etc. Large films, such as silo-balloon film and greenhouse film, are not really placed under packaging after this legislative amendment. But yes, page 2 of the explanatory memorandum gives a more accurate list.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U267	Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U268	Thank you. In this sense, I specify that the Estonian Pandipakend will also report itself. At least I've learned from there that no kind of package has been returned more than 100%. If there is a return of goods from Latvia, there is still a reference to very large amounts of damage. If you put them in numbers, you should have come to Estonia 10 million units of packaging. The second question in this regard is that, if we want to improve the law, there are also different handling charges today, which is unequal treatment. Has the Ministry tried to make any changes in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U269	Thank you. I have to say, I didn't understand the last half of the handling fees. What exactly did you mean in the context of the Packaging Act? However, as regards the introduction of packaging not covered by the deposit into the Estonian system, Latvia in particular has repeatedly emerged here. This inspection by the Environmental Inspectorate, to which I referred earlier, really concerns packages brought from Latvia. This number, how many units of packages have been brought across the Estonian border in this way, cannot be said with the precision of the decimal place. Once again, however, the fact that there have been precisely such violations in recent years, where packages without deposit are brought to Estonia with vans, where no deposit has been paid in Estonia, they are redirected to the refund system through return machines and the money is simply taken out is not a guess, but is unfortunately a fact identified as a result of environmental inspection. We want to put an end to this situation, so that such fraud is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U270	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U271	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. At our committee meeting, the representatives of both ministries, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture expressed a slightly different opinion on how much the new requirements imposed on agricultural plastics and its collection cost the final consumer, or the farmer. One claimed that according to the agreement, the price or use of this plastic would not be more expensive for the farmer, the other claimed that some price increase could still result in a change in the system. Is it possible for ministries to come together here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U272	Thank you for your question. This whole thing is real. I pointed out from the outset that the change concerning agricultural plastic has been developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. I am therefore absolutely convinced that the Ministry of Agriculture would not have come up with a proposal or approved a draft which would be detrimental to farmers. This change, which will no longer be classified as packaging, is certainly not harmful to farmers but, on the contrary, makes the system much easier for them. I am convinced that the Ministry of Agriculture has been in contact with farmers' representatives during the preparation and coordination of this draft and has represented and defended their position in every way possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U273	No more questions for you. Thank you very much, Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus! We will continue with the co-report by Tõnis Kõiv, member of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U274	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act was discussed in the Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu at the meeting on 17 and 23 January. The draft was presented by Marika Siim and Mai Talvik, Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department of the Ministry of the Environment's Waste Department. In addition, members of the Management Board of OÜ Eesti Pandipakend and Rauno Raal and Kaupo Karba also participated in the draft discussion. The first part of this draft law contains amendments to the Waste Act, which extends the range of producers to include an agricultural plastic producer and includes the definition of agricultural plastic. A provision is also included in the Waste Act, the implementation of which could improve the control of the transnational transport of packaging with deposit money established in Estonia. The second part includes additions to the Packaging Act relating to the withdrawal of packages with a deposit. During the debate in the Commission, the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture told us that the need to amend the current regulation on the use of agricultural plastics arose as early as 2010 with regard to the issue of re-use of silage. It is now agreed that agricultural plastics, including silage, will be placed under the responsibility of the producer. According to a representative of the Ministry of the Environment, the obligation to pay excise duty also created a problem in the use of agricultural plastics. Since small farmers were not particularly familiar with the Packaging Act, packaging excise duty was often simply not paid. With the legislative amendment under discussion, agricultural plastics will become a problem product and small farmers will no longer be subject to the obligation to pay packaging excise duties under the Packaging Act and the Packaging Excise Law. The Commission asked whether, as a result, tax receipts would change a lot. The reply of the representative of the Ministry of the Environment was that the change was irrelevant, since the amendment concerns only plastic manufacturers and importers who are subject to the obligation to recycle packaging under the draft. If a person brings in agricultural plastics for his own use, he or she shall be responsible for the waste in accordance with the Waste Act. In general, farmers import about 2 000 tonnes of agricultural plastic per year, and small farmers buy it from farmers. To the question of how much excise duties on packaging may still change as a result, the reply of the Ministry of the Environment to the members of the Commission was that the Tax and Customs Board would only keep records of the receipt of excise duties on packaging. There is no record of which industry's packaging companies pay the exact tax, so it is not possible to accurately indicate the amount of excise duty paid by farmers. However, as regards the order of magnitude, the state budget planned EEK 500000 for the collection of excise duties on packaging in 2010 and received just over EEK 162000. The planned budget for 2011 was EUR 32000, much higher, EUR 197000, but it also included an ex post payment of the excise duty for three years by the packaging companies resulting from the monitoring. In addition, the Minister was interested and asked if there was a risk that if packaging excise duty would no longer have to be paid, the plastic products would simply be more expensive for farmers. According to the representative of the Ministry of the Environment, this may not be the case, as this plastic also has value as waste, i.e. the value of raw materials, and therefore the price of plastics sold to farmers may not increase at all. The representatives of the Estonian Pandipakend OÜ explained these reasons to the members of the committee, which led them to propose to the Ministry of the Environment a few years ago that the provisions relating to the transnational transport of packages with a deposit be supplemented and the provisions relating to the withdrawal of packages with a deposit. This switch from 20 kilos to 4 kilos essentially means that if there are 20 kilos of large plastic bag containers, then four kilos is the quantity of ordinary consumer, whether normal or not, but the quantity of ordinary consumer. So this type of enterprise, where we may have met ads in a neighbouring city that a package with an Estonian taramark is being bought, should disappear. At its meeting, the Committee on the Environment decided, as a result of the discussion of bill 155, to appoint the rapporteur of the commission before you when dealing with the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the first reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 8 February, or today, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for submitting the draft amendments be set at 16 p.m. on 22 February 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U275	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U276	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm looking at § 23 (2). It states that if the package to which the deposit has been lodged does not have a guarantee mark or barcode, or is not clearly visible and legible on the packaging or on the label, or is physically damaged, the package shall be withdrawn in accordance with the procedure laid down in § 20 of this Act and the deposit shall not be returned for that package. Does the end-user have to bear the costs of not correctly labelling his product or packaging by the person selling the goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U277	Thank you for your question. Well, most of it, the lion's share of the pawns is returned by automatic machines. In practice, this means that if the machine does not read the code for any reason, the consumer will have the opportunity to give away the package, but he will not receive any money for it. That's actually the way it works in practice. The machine reception via a tarpaulin machine, as we were told in the Commission, takes place in about 90% of cases. Similarly, when the product has been placed on the market and the use of this code has been over 12 months, it is an obligation to accept it. This will continue to apply in the same way that the packaging will still have to be accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U278	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Tõnis Kõiv. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft and set the deadline for amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 22 February. First reading of bill 155 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U279	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety 158. To present the speech chair, Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a bill that has received number 158. The purpose of the amendments to this law is to involve voluntary marine rescuers in search and rescue work at sea. According to the draft, the system for the involvement of voluntary marine rescuers is designed to be built in the same way as the system for the involvement of voluntary rescuers, which was dealt with by the previous Parliament in the framework of the rescue law. A two-stage learning system is designed to involve a person as a voluntary marine rescuer. First degree training is 40 hours and ends in the count. Second-level education is 20 hours and will also end in accounting. A sea rescuer who has completed first-level training shall have the right to perform sea rescue work only in conjunction with a police officer or with a sea rescuer who has completed second-level training. However, a sea rescuer who has completed secondary education can do sea rescue work independently. A voluntary marine rescuer shall complete at least every three years refresher training and record-keeping. The training of a voluntary marine rescuer may only be carried out by a trained person, a police authority or a corresponding educational institution recognised by the police authority, in particular with regard to the Estonian Academy of Defence and the Estonian Maritime Academy. Marine rescuers will be involved through non-profit organisations according to the draft. To this end, the Police and Border Guard Board shall conclude a civil law contract with a non-profit organisation, which shall agree on arrangements for voluntary participation. The powers of public authority shall be conferred on a person by a decision of the PBGB recognising a person as a voluntary sea rescuer. Since this is a public task, the non-profit organisation can only use persons who have completed voluntary maritime rescue training and who have been recognised by the Police and Border Guard Board as a voluntary marine rescuer, under the supervision of the police. The draft provides an opportunity to involve voluntary marine rescuers directly in search and rescue work at sea and provides them with the same social guarantees as auxiliary police officers: compensation in the event of death or incapacity for work at sea and compensation for material damage. Currently, voluntary marine rescuers are concentrated in non-profit organisations. There are two representative organisations: the Estonian Voluntary Marine and Lake Rescue Association and the Estonian Private Salvation Union. Both have also been actively involved in the development of this draft. Secondly, this draft also amends the law on maritime safety. The purpose of the amendment to the Maritime Safety Act is to give the Police and Border Guard Board the competence to check the passenger list and the compliance of persons actually present on board a passenger ship and the safety of passengers boarding, en route and disembarkation. At present, only the Maritime Administration has such competence, but in the event of non-compliance, the management of the event falls within the remit of the Border Guard. It is therefore also appropriate to grant the right to carry out preventive controls to the Police and Border Guard Board. According to the Maritime Safety Act passengers on passenger ships are entered on the passenger list. The person appointed by the Reeder shall draw up a list of passengers before the ship leaves port in accordance with procedures established by the Government. Breach of the passenger list procedure is punishable as a misdemeanour. At present, only the Maritime Administration is an out-of-court judge. The draft also gives this competence to the Police and Border Guard Board. With this draft, we do not increase or reduce the obligations imposed by law on the ship owner, on the captain or on the passenger, but only transfer the competence to verify the accuracy of the passenger list to the PBGB as well. The accuracy of the passenger list is essential to ensure that, in particular in the event of a marine casualty and rescue, the identity of the persons on board is known. The draft is planned to enter into force on 1 May s. a so that we can increase as much as possible this year the contribution of voluntary marine rescuers to reducing drowning deaths. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U281	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U282	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, First of all, the question of sea rescue. You rightly mentioned that the umbrella organisation is the Estonian Voluntary Marine and Lake Rescue. If we look at the area of responsibility of the law, there is an internal and territorial sea, Lake Peipsi, Lake Lämmi and Pihkva and all related and training is specific. My question is simple: what about Lake Võrtsjärv? If people want to organize by Lake Võrtsjärv, they will not be protected by this law and they will not end up anywhere. How do we solve this problem? Lake Võrtsjärv is large enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U283	There is no question of involving volunteers in other bodies of water located in Estonia. It is just that the competences that are currently enshrined in the law are the same as those of border guards. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we also dealt briefly with this issue. As a result, § 1082 of this Act restricts the sea rescue work to those bodies of water.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U284	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U285	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Is it possible to predict, on the basis of the statistics currently available, how broad a field of work will actually be for voluntary marine rescuers and how many interested people are willing to do this voluntary work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U286	Thank you for a good question. This interest has already been expressed in the fact that we have two representative organisations. Why there are two such non-profit associations in Estonia, perhaps because of the differences between the concepts of the founders of these representative organisations. As far as I am concerned, Estonian Volunteer Maritime and Lake Rescue is looking very narrowly, they are completely separate, they are dealing with sea and lake rescues. The Estonian Private Salvation Union is wider, it brings together volunteers and is open to the representatives of voluntary marine rescues according to this bill. But there's nothing wrong with that. Of course, there may be more non-profit organizations. For a country in itself, it is perhaps better for such partners to have a certain finite number and they are strong. I have personally met both representative organisations. Estonian Voluntary Marine and Lake Rescues were created not very long ago, a few years ago and their goal is rather ambitious, from which I can read that there is a clear desire to be a marine rescuer. There are also great ambitions for the Estonian Union of Primitive Salvation, whose composition is considerably larger, it brings together many more rescuers. But, as I said, the representatives of the volunteer savior's institute are also part of the free will for salvation under the rescue law. Personally, as far as we can, I think we're gonna put our shoulders on both representative organisations. The desire to volunteer is increasingly present in different parts of Estonia. The number of people in Estonia Volunteering in sea and lake rescues has increased over the last year and they will have even higher targets by the end of 2012. So there's an initiative like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U287	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U288	Thank you. The answer to the previous question still remained in the air, and Lake Võrtsjärv remains unprotected. My second question relates to the second part of the bill, i.e. the amendment of the Maritime Safety Act. As I understand it, the check-in system is holed up, and with this amendment, it will remain holed up. The Police and Border Guard Board will be given the authority to start checking whether the passenger list is realistic. Is it going to be a permanent or random ticket and document check or how this change will manifest itself? Can we solve the main problem with this amendment, that the lists often do not actually correspond to the passengers on board, and if something bad happens, then there is a problem with the lists again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U289	Thank you! There will be no significant change here. The amendment relates in particular to the fact that the Police and Border Guard Board does not currently have competence to carry out inspections. The way they carry out these checks is up to the individual authority. Like I said, right now, this kind of control can be carried out by the Maritime Administration. It is reasonable to extend this right to the PBA, in particular for the reason that an extra-judicial practitioner could be a PPA in addition to the Maritime Administration. This, of course, relates to the competence of the Police and Border Guard Board itself, to still have an overview of who is on the passenger ship. Above all, when it comes to events, to crisis situations, the PBGB also has the resources to monitor them. As a result, these changes have also been initiated, so it is more of an extension of today's competences than something very substantive. As I mentioned, the draft does not review other conditions, obligations or other aspects of the Maritime Safety Act, but simply gives the PBGB an additional opportunity. If you ask what this identification is, it is generally a random identification, i.e. the person who bought the ticket and the data on his identity document are checked at check-in.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U290	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you. I ask for a co-report from Siim Kabritsa, Member of the Chair Committee on Legal Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U291	Madam President, please. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft law at its meeting on 24 January. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, and Ruth Annus, Head of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, also participated in the meeting, who presented the content and necessity of the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. The Commission raised issues concerning, in particular, the first and second level training of voluntary marine rescuers and the availability of equipment and additional resources. The Committee on Legal Affairs recognised the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior to regulate this area. It was decided by consensus in the Commission to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 8 February. It was also decided to close the first reading in consensus, to appoint Mr Kabrits as rapporteur and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 16 a.m. on 22 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U292	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Siim Kabrits. Any requests? Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U293	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Certainly, the state has moved in the right direction in that it has begun to create legal frameworks for volunteering. This concerns the voluntary police service and the voluntary rescuers, and we are now discussing sea rescue here today. My only concern, not just for me, but for us, is that volunteering should bring added value from a security point of view, not to replace working civil servants. The state should provide certain security in the country with certain resources. If we go this way to replace the working structures with volunteers on a daily basis, I'm afraid we're heading in the wrong direction. If we can continue to act in the direction that voluntary structures bring added value to the creation of security, then we are on the right track. Unfortunately, the recent examples of rescue services, the closure of rescue commandos, where it has been said that we are shutting down the national structural unit, but that there will be a voluntary replacement, confirm that this talk can only remain empty words. The reason is that, firstly, there are no people in the region who would volunteer for this work and, secondly, there is perhaps not enough wealth and money to support this volunteering command or whatever unit. So we should be guided by the principle of adding value to the use of volunteers rather than replacing national activities. Smart thinking for us!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U294	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and, as proposed by the commission, I will set the deadline for the submission of 158 amendments at 4 p.m. on 22 February. First reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U295	We are moving on to the fifth item, the first reading of the draft Act 161 on the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic brings to the Riigikogu the Act on the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. By ratifying the Convention, the country wishes to recognise the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all persons with disabilities, such as the right to independent life, education, work, access to both the facility and information, and freedom of expression and opinion. By ratifying the Convention, the State also undertakes to pursue the objectives set out in the Convention and to continuously improve the situation of persons with disabilities. According to the results of the legal analysis, Estonia's legal space corresponds to the provisions of the Convention at both constitutional and special levels. The Convention does not create new rights but helps to harmonise national practices in the treatment of persons with disabilities by bringing together all the rights of persons with disabilities set out in a number of international conventions and instruments, and by clarifying it. The Convention also provides clearer orientations and understanding to enhance the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, the creation of equal opportunities and cooperation on disability issues at both international and national level. The objective of joining the Fcultative Protocol is to give disabled people the opportunity to turn to the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities after all national remedies have been exhausted if they feel that the State, the Municipality or anyone else is violating their rights under the Convention. Following the ratification of the Convention, a national strategy for the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and its annual action plans will be developed to improve the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and their self-sufficiency. In developing the strategy, the priority axes will be specified and the resources will be planned for specific years, based on the budgetary opportunities of the state and local authorities. After ratification, Estonia must report every four years to the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities on the measures taken to comply with the obligations under the Convention and the progress made. The first report shall be due two years after the entry into force of the Convention. Looking at which countries have already ratified the Convention, 19 of the 27 Member States of the European Union have so far done so. When we talk about the organisational aspects of the implementation of the Convention, it is generally the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but it is clear that, horizontally, all ministries and municipalities are involved within their respective spheres of responsibility. The Government of the Republic supports the Social Affairs Committee's proposal to terminate the first reading of this bill. We hope that the ratification process will also be completed as soon as possible, and then the long-awaited Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities can be given a green path to the entry into force of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U297	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is asked by Jüri Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U298	Thank you. Indeed, people with disabilities have waited a long time to ratify this convention. However, following the ratification of the Convention in the Riigikogu, it is very important to move forward immediately with practical activities to improve the performance of people with disabilities in the public space. What further steps could be taken by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Government following the ratification of the Convention?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U299	Thank you for your question. As I said in the introductory speech, we will next have a specific strategy, and then annual action plans and plans, as a result of this convention. It is clear that the Ministry of Social Affairs alone cannot carry out all activities and finance them. All persons involved in the public sector, both public entities and public authorities in the country and in the local government sector, must take into account that accessibility criteria are met in particular. If smaller restructurings can be implemented, they are certainly all welcome, which does not mean that they should not be implemented now. As I said, ratification of the Convention is rather a state recognition and a summary signal of all existing legislation, giving people with disabilities confidence that their rights are respected and that they have the same rights as all those with no disability.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U300	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U301	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is a bit of an assessment or a demanding one. Indeed, the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has long been awaited not only by people with disabilities but, in some ways, by society as a whole, to demonstrate our readiness, our ability to understand and help eliminate the concerns that people with disabilities have. The question here: how much do you think there is in society as a whole that we are ratifying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities because we want to make these conditions, accessibility and everything else more equal? Or do they think that we are doing this simply because there is an international convention and we have to ratify it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U302	Thank you. It is certainly not possible to measure this in percentage terms. It is still possible to measure this through the country's earlier activities. If we look at different legislation, one of the major issues is certainly accessibility criteria. Both the Building Act and the Planning Act have introduced very clear accessibility requirements for their processing. No renovated buildings can be reconstructed in the public sector in such a way that people with disabilities, especially people with reduced mobility, cannot access it. For example, when we look at buses acquired from the so-called quota facilities, they are also shallow and accessible to wheelchair users. These direct actions are already a sign that understanding, understanding in society is increasing. But there's still a lot of work to be done. The media also reminds me of examples where some of the renovated public objects, although formally accessible to people with reduced mobility, are practically not accessible by wheelchair, is due to too high a slope or because the so-called aid that is placed on the object cannot be used. I recall one of the latest news reports about the opening of the tunnel in an Estonian city, where on the one hand the tunnel got in, but could not get out on the other. I'm sure I'd like to avoid cases like this in the future. Everyone must have an understanding and confidence that people have fundamental rights and freedoms that must be taken into account. Consequently, in particular, all municipalities have a duty to ensure access. And not only for people with physical or reduced mobility, but we are also talking about people with, for example, visual impairments or hearing impairments, for whom this access is also necessary. A short answer: yes, understanding, understanding with ratification of this Convention will certainly increase, but the day-to-day work is what shows how public authorities also meet its requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U303	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U304	Thank you. Estonia has presented its views to the Council of Europe's Equal Treatment Directive, according to which we need a 20-year transitional period to adapt public transport rolling stock to the needs of disabled people. In the case of information systems, we need a transition period of 10 years. Do you believe that this period is sufficient and can we hope that in 20 years' time, in one generation's time, public space will be accessible to disabled people equally to ordinary people?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U305	Thank you for your question. I hope that time comes early. Of course, for each individual object, the behavioral model is different and our desires and demands will change over time. But when we talk about people with reduced mobility, for them, new solutions have certainly increased considerably over 20 years. If we look at electric wheelchairs, for example, 20 years ago, their availability was minimal. Today it is really possible to say that there is greater availability for a lot of people. Similarly, other tools that remove obstacles to movement, in particular robot hands, are robot feet, which are increasingly entering the market. In twenty years' time, people's mobility opportunities will be considerably wider and better. But as far as buildings and public transport are concerned, this is a very realistic goal, rather I think that this time may come sooner.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U306	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U307	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! This is undoubtedly an excellent bill and it is good that Estonia, as the 20th state, is ratifying this convention. My question, however, is that the representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, who attended the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, also expressed some concern, as expectations are always greater than opportunities. Undoubtedly, even now, municipalities are complying with the Constitution, although they respect the construction law and the needs of people with disabilities. But how do you feel that following the ratification of this law, could it be hoped that the various funds, I mean the European Union funds, could be more easily applied for money, or that certain financial resources could also be available in the course of the 2013 state budget procedure, so that local authorities can carry out their tasks more quickly and better?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U308	Thank you. I guess putting together every year's budget is your face. The opportunities we all have together will be clear when the draft budget starts to take on a new face. But the fact is that municipalities can still make their own choices. With regard both to asking for assistance from foreign funds and to state budget allocations, all municipalities have exactly the same rights. If we look at the priorities set by the municipalities, I have repeatedly said here on the board that spending on social protection is different in the municipalities. These scissors are too big. Next week, if I remember correctly, Tallinn will be the day of cities and rural municipalities. This is also one place where municipalities are together and could discuss this issue calmly, seriously, to exchange good experiences. Indeed, social protection expenditure in municipalities could be a little more even.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U309	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U310	Thank you. Good minister! First of all, I would like to express great recognition that the draft law on the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has finally reached the Riigikogu, because it was a very, very long road here. But my question concerns the implementation plan you have mentioned, which you will be doing. Have you, for your part, set the priorities that receive the most attention, or what is now the biggest bottleneck?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U311	Thank you for your question. First of all, of course, I would like to have the Convention ratified. Yes, it is indeed an extremely difficult question in which year which issue should be given the highest priority. We are in the process of working with the Chamber of People with Disabilities and, of course, they have their own opinions, but in my opinion, the most difficult question is still the same one, which was also the object of the dispute when this Convention arrived in this Chamber, i.e. the criteria for accessibility. And by accessibility, I mean not only physical accessibility, but also access to information on the Internet, which does not require large resources. In order to improve physical accessibility, much more resources are needed than to improve access to information, whether through a cinema, a theatre hall or Internet sites. These are the places where we can get to work faster. Of course, when it comes to larger investments, it is necessary to agree with local governments on their options and plans to make public space more accessible to all people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U312	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U313	Thank you. When you prepared the draft, when it was during the discussion in the Government of the Republic, did the discussions reveal the willingness of other ministries to deal with the issue of people with disabilities? After all, this is not just about the Ministry of Social Affairs. This concerns both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Culture. To what extent have other ministries acknowledged this problem and recorded it in their action plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U314	Thank you. This has certainly been the subject of attention in other ministries. I believe that we have one very good example of cooperation between different sectors, which is the development plan for the health of the population. In the population health development plan, the activities of the ministries are integrated into a single implementation plan. I believe that this could be a good example of how activities in all areas can be reflected in the implementation strategy and then in the annual implementation plan. Well, we'll give you an overview. I believe that the honourable Riigikogu will also, after a certain time, be interested in what progress has been made, as we must give an international overview every four years anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U315	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs. As co-rapporteur, I would like to ask Jüri Jaanson, member of the Social Affairs Committee for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U316	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in two sessions. On Monday, 16 January, the topic was discussed as the fourth item on the agenda, where Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur gave an overview of the draft law. He presented the content of the draft, spoke about the problems raised in the coordination rounds and about the long negotiation process. The Minister stressed the aim of the draft law to create equal opportunities and conditions for people with disabilities in our society for independent living and for the country to move in the right direction in this respect. The Minister stressed that the ratification of the Convention is of symbolic significance and that people with disabilities have waited a long time for it to be ratified. He pointed out that in the event of ratification of the draft, or rather, accession to the Optional Protocol to the Convention, the State would have to take into account the possibility that any individual may also apply to the International Court of Justice. The members of the Commission asked the Minister for Social Affairs questions seeking an overview of the main issues. These sites are, according to the Minister, accessibility and possible additional costs. There was also a discussion on relations between the state and local authorities. Even without the ratification of the Disability Convention, local authorities are obliged by virtue of the Building Act to ensure that disabled people have access to new or renovated buildings, such as ramps. According to the Public Transport Act, bus and coach procurement must already meet the same requirements. At present, even in public authorities, the situation is not good. For example, at the unemployment fund, but also here in the Riigikogu building, where a person with reduced mobility and using a wheelchair cannot enter freely on his own, and where it is also very difficult for people with hearing and vision impairments to cope. The Minister of Social Affairs pointed out that in addition to the subject of physical access, there are other concerns, such as the lack of equipment for the theatre visits of hearing impaired people in many theatres, the lack of availability of Internet services, the need for subtitles for Estonian National Broadcasting programmes. For people with visual problems, there is a need to expand the circulation of audio books and to expand translation opportunities, as well as to increase society's awareness and ability to deal with people with disabilities in general. The debate on the convention continued at the next meeting of the Commission on 17 January, where representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and Estonian Association of Rural Governments were invited. The representative of the Chamber of Disabled Persons stressed that the Estonian disabled have been waiting for the draft to enter into force for a long time, but even more important than ratification is the operation of the Convention and the day-to-day implementation of its principles. It considered Article 33 of the Convention to be important, i.e. the development of national priorities and a strategy for the implementation of the Convention. Disabled people are aware that life does not become beautiful overnight, but the convention shows goals. A representative of the Chamber of People with Disabilities also pointed out that there is currently no country that meets 100% of the requirements of the Convention. Disabled people want to be involved and reach a national action plan. According to a representative of the Association of Estonian Cities, the Union has discussed this issue repeatedly and for them it is not about ratifying the Convention, but about the commitments and financial coverage of local government, the private sector and also national institutions. According to a representative of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, their organisation does not oppose the principles of the Convention, but since they represent rural governments, they must ensure that when obligations come, there must be a revenue base. Members of the Commission were interested in the impact of the Convention on the well-being of persons with disabilities, possible obligations under the Convention, the availability of resources, rights and obligations under the Optional Protocol. According to a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, on the basis of these analyses, there will be no additional obligations, since the Convention lays down the same rights as those deriving from our own constitution. In conclusion, the Commission confirmed that the objective of the Convention is to ensure that persons with disabilities are able to use all human rights and fundamental freedoms more fully and equally with others, and to promote respect for their inherent dignity and individuality. The fundamental idea of the convention is to recognise that persons with disabilities are equivalent to other members of society. In the Committee on Social Affairs, the following consensual decisions were taken regarding the draft UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act: firstly, to send the draft to the plenary of the Riigikogu by 8 February, i.e. today, second, to complete the first reading and, thirdly, to set the deadline for amendments at 22 February at 18. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U317	Good waitress! You have questions too. Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U318	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Both the Minister and your own presentation discussed how much implementation of the Disability Convention can cost after ratification, i.e. how much the costs are for ministries, municipalities, cities and municipalities. Did the Commission also mention the benefits for society, the benefits for people? What's the revenue side?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U319	Good questioner! I would be happy to answer your question, but, unfortunately, I am not able to understand the question you have asked from this distance. Unfortunately, I myself am hearing impaired and need to be able not only to hear but also to read from my mouth when communicating. Unfortunately, as far as I know, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act does not provide for a solution in this case either. The question may be repeated, but I don't think I understand that far. Perhaps the President of the sitting will help us find a solution? [[Jüri Ratas gives a summary of the question.]] I suppose I got the question right. I consider the main benefit of this draft to be a significant increase in the self-consciousness of people with disabilities, because although Article 12 of our Constitution provides for equal treatment of all people, regardless of their social status, it is very problematic for people with disabilities to be able to cope in public spaces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U320	Next question. Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U321	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! Implementation of the Convention is certainly very important and necessary. I see that both the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments made many proposals, but very few of them were taken into account. Did you also discuss in the Commission the reason why local authorities were not very familiar with the issue? Was this subject discussed in the Commission? [[Jüri Ratas gives a summary of the question.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U322	In the Commission, representatives of both the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Governments made their views clear, and we also discussed them. The main contradiction was that, when representatives of the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Governments focused in particular on the technical side of the Convention, i.e. the obligation to find and obtain financial cover, which is, in fact, the relationship between municipalities and the State for society, the actual idea of the Convention to highlight the situation of people with disabilities was completely backwards in their views. We have just stressed that the importance of the Convention on Persons with Disabilities is primarily to highlight the improvement of their situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U323	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Viktor Vassilyev, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U324	Mr President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This is an extremely positive thing. Indeed, almost five years ago, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was opened for signature at the UN. Took the time he took. However, I would say that there is nothing new or unexpected about it. There are some dangers here that we need to build ramps and invest in something. There is nothing new about this either, and all of this is already in the Building and Planning Act and these requirements have not been met for a long time. But not the extra costs, I don't even understand how money is spoken in this context. It is about the social agreement, the agreement that we all recognise and recognise that people who live next to us, who have special needs, who need a little more attention, who need recognition, with whom we simply have to live in this society. There is nothing new about this either. I recall 1982, when Invaru and the first invalid organisations were created, when disability was written in newspapers and magazines, when people with disabilities were given very and very high attention. And now they say, yes, a new thing like the Convention on the Disabled. This is nothing new! This is a normal development of humanity that we must accompany, because if we do not go along with it, then we are simply not a civilized society. This is a social agreement that must go with everything that must go with the media. When we look at it, the media places enormous emphasis on gender issues. A poster campaign is being put up where we are all being made clear that there are sexually oriented, sexually oriented, second and thirdly oriented people, and there are some fourth category, they are heterosexual, but they have a choice. You have to talk about something else, real problems. People who have special needs have really serious problems living among us that we do not know anything about; we do not know about them. But if, for example, there's a TV show called "Blind Room" or "Ahaa" in the center, I think there's a dark room where you can move like a blind person, that's when you figure out what it is. In fact, people with disabilities are not only people moving in wheelchairs that we are used to. No, there are a lot of people with special needs. A large number of them are people with disabilities appointed by a psychiatrist. They too need careful treatment. If we want to live among people, not in a pack of wolves, then we should help the weaker members of society. Who knows when God will punish us for our sins, that can happen to anyone. So society must always be ready for this. When it's said here that building some kind of pick-ups and exits takes a lot of money, you know, there are very simple things. You're all travelers here. You have been here and there, and you have certainly noticed that airports, on the streets of capitals, in railway stations are in the middle of a smooth sidewalk of a 40 centimeter wide yellow or orange strip with these bumps and where it is very uncomfortable to walk. Do you know what this is? These are the tracks for the blind, because the blind groans with his feet from under the road and... May I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U325	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U326	...this is how he is led to the tram stop, where the tram stops exactly where his path ends. He'll be fine at the airport and anywhere else. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities requires not loading and unloading, but human dignity; it demands that the dignity of people with special needs be taken into account. There are even cheaper solutions. In hospitals, for example, in the middle of a hallway, a rough strip of material is placed like a tape and a person with poor eyesight clings to a slipper and "sees" which way to go, where there is a treatment room, where there is a bathroom, etc. He's doing very well, and he doesn't have to ask anyone else to help him. However, let's take this trivial example that if a person in a wheelchair wants to come to the Riigikogu and listen to the balcony that we are talking about, he or she will not be able to get here. If he really wants to, we're gonna get him some help, and we're gonna get two tight security guys to pull him up here. Well, what human dignity can we talk about here? There are solutions. They exist technically and are not financially insurmountable, but they are all obsessed with attitude. The Convention on the Disabled, good friends, does not simply mean bowing down to the United Nations. This does not mean that we are adopting some kind of paper, we are going to send reports somewhere and we are going to make development plans. No, it means that at last, we must each and every one of us at our workplace also think that there are people next to us who can't, who can't, but who has the right to do everything that we do. Everyone at their workplace, including us here in the Riigikogu, should take into account the requirements of the Convention on People with Disabilities in each of our activities. The members of the Centre Party have repeatedly pointed out that society is as strong as its weakest link. The faction of the Centre Party intends to remind the Riigikogu that people with disabilities must be taken into account in any draft law where this is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U327	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 161 amendments on 22 February 2012 at 6 p.m. That concludes the first reading and the fifth item on the agenda. Good fellows! I have a message for you running. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has adopted a draft statement by 44 members of the Riigikogu entitled "Publication of sentiment for Estonian citizens" and has appointed it as the leading committee of the National Defence Committee. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be s. February 9, at 14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U328	We will move on to the following sixth item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities Act and the State Pension Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U329	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is pleased to introduce draft law No 159 amending the Social Benefits Act and the State Pension Insurance Act to members of the Riigikogu. The draft amends the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities and the National Pension Insurance Act and provides the legal basis for the processing of sensitive personal data in the Health Information System when determining the degree of disability or permanent incapacity for work. At present, family and specialist doctors transmit the person's health data to the Social Insurance Board on the form of the description of health status to identify the degree of disability and permanent incapacity for work. According to the cooperation agreement between the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and the Ministry of Social Affairs, the necessary personal health data will be sought from the health information system. It is therefore necessary to grant the Social Insurance Board's expert doctors and experts the right to consult the health information system, but only to the extent necessary for the identification of disability or incapacity for work. In parallel, the possibility for healthcare providers to transmit data describing the person's state of health in the form of a description of the medical condition is maintained. Therefore, in addition to the procedures in force, there is an additional procedure under which expertise is to be carried out on the basis of the relevant personal data contained in the health information system and selected. Expert physicians and experts of the Social Insurance Institution shall be given access to the health data of persons wishing to identify disability and/or permanent incapacity in the health information system. In order to prevent the expert doctor from gaining unrestricted access to all data contained in the health information system and to avoid having to search the entire health information system database, the request shall be made standardised. This means that the same view of data and the same composition of data is made available for each person. The expert doctor shall examine the identity of the person only in the context of the administrative procedure relating to the individual and only with the consent of the person. In addition, the draft aims to reduce the workload of family and specialist doctors who are connected to the health information system and who provide personal health data to them, and to save time when filling in and submitting the forms of description of the medical condition which are the basis for the assessment of the severity and additional costs of disability and of the determination of permanent incapacity for work. The electronic procedure for personal health data does not change the overall process of applying for and identifying disability and permanent incapacity for work. The adoption of the bill and the entry into force of the law are, of course, preceded by the preparation of the IT solutions necessary for the implementation of the law, which are currently being dealt with. The Government of the Republic proposes to enforce the Act on 1 June 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U330	Dear colleagues, thank you for having at least one question for the Minister. Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U331	Thank you. Good minister! My question relates to your last sentence, where you said that you had foreseen 1 June as the deadline for enforcement. In the Commission, we heard that IT solutions will be completed by the end of April, which means that they can only be tested for a month. Don't you think you're taking too much of a risk? Or are you bored with Gonsior Street and want to come back here with us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U332	Thank you for the optimistic question. There's always a risk. There is also a risk when there is a six months or a year between entry into force and a possible IT solution. IT solutions tend to be so that even if they work very well, sometimes they tend to throw pranks and not work. Our one and biggest guarantee against this concern is that we will leave the paper form in parallel with the electronic form. Of course, this may mean, for example, that if the electronic application is down and the family doctor has communicated all necessary data regularly to the health information system, then the decision may be delayed for a few days. But that is why the draft has now proposed a deadline for electronic procedure, not one day, but ten days according to my memory. This should ensure that, within the procedural time limits provided for, the matter is resolved by electronic means or, if this is not possible by electronic means, by paper means. We very much hope that our good IT partners will be able to deliver the solution earlier than 30 April. The first tests will hopefully take place the next week and the next week, and this is how the system will arrive at us. The risk is, and also the House of People with Disabilities has proposed to us to put this bill into effect later. However, I believe that, between the first and second readings, this issue needs to be discussed again in the committee. I believe that once we have received feedback from IT companies on these first activities, we will be much smarter by next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U333	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U334	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question concerning the consent of applicants to the processing of data in the health information system, precisely for the verbatim. In the committee, both you and the representatives of the family doctors were left with the principle that if a person does not consent to the processing of his or her data by third parties in the health information system, the current procedure will be maintained in parallel. The current procedure, i.e. consent, is only one sentence: "I agree and am aware. " This new paper, which is here, identifies the health information system and identifies third parties, but the text of the law does not really have that possibility. It is stated that the Social Insurance Board will not process this when consent is refused. This explanation, which you have now said, that the health information system cannot be seen more than by the form that is necessary for the disability, we did not have a Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U335	Thank you. I'd be happy to explain it again. Yes, the truth is that a person has to give consent, that makes sense. Man still gives his consent now, and exactly as you have read: I am aware and I agree. That's the basis of everything. If a person has to apply for the identification of his or her disability within the framework of this draft, or, rather, if he or she comes and asks for a description of his or her medical condition, it is imperative that he or she consents to check his or her health records during this process. Such consent is clearly necessary for the identification of his or her incapacity for work or disability. If a person doesn't consent, the uniform doesn't matter. Hence, a person is not ready to have his or her health records looked at at at all, and then it does not matter whether these health records are viewed on paper or electronically. Electronically, this data cannot be more than in paper form. This is one very important principle that an expert doctor may not have access to any individual's medical records. There's no way that's out of the question! That's why the IT solution. If we had such an approach that an expert doctor might ask for any health data from the health information system, we wouldn't need an IT solution. Then we'd say, please, expert doctors at the Social Insurance Board, you have access to human health records and see what you want. I certainly cannot agree with this, and I believe that the Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Estonia could not agree to this either. In this case, it would be an abuse of data and cannot be tolerated. So in this respect, the consent of the person is necessary at the beginning of the process and he consents to the verification of the data on paper or electronically. If he or she disagrees with this, it is not possible to determine disability or incapacity for work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U336	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U337	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You've answered a little differently than the question was asked. I will read out what is in Annex 2 to this bill: "I am aware of the purpose of the request for expertise, confirm the accuracy of the information provided, and agree with the processing of my personal data and sensitive personal data (including all data contained in the health information system) (including the transfer to third parties)... " Who are these third parties? I know there's a rehabilitation team, and so on. Today's system is that when a person goes to a doctor, this doctor may look at certain information concerning people's health, but it is not the case that officials, authorities, etc. may also be present. Who are these third parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U338	Thank you. If you have read this list, it will include the Social Insurance Board and third parties. Expert doctors are not officials of the Social Insurance Board. If we're talking about expert doctors, they could be third parties. If the Commission wishes to clarify this wording between the first and second readings, then we are ready to contribute to this if necessary. So far we have understood, and we have also negotiated with the Data Protection Inspectorate, based on the fact that the first person must have given consent, that is the first principle. The second principle is that these data are processed either on paper or electronically. Preferably electronically, because once these data are entered into the health information system, they can be taken from there using this form. The third principle is that if there is insufficient data in the health information system, additional data will be taken from the family doctor. If, in the light of these three principles, it is possible to make the wording of this annex clearer or shorter for a person, then we are certainly prepared to make our contribution so that the wording is equally understood by everyone so that there is no interpretation in various ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U339	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U340	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In fact, in addition to an expert doctor, there is also the word "official" in the text of the draft law. Annex 2, which I read out, adds third parties. I ask again: who are these third parties? I know the rehabilitation team has a right to get to know it, and so on. It is not quite the case that only the expert doctor is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U341	Thank you for your question. I tried to give an example of expert doctors working at the Social Insurance Board on a contract of employment. When we talk about officials, it is true that officials are not doctors. If we look at the current regime for paper-based media, I will say once again that there will be no fundamental change in this procedure and no more than this will be given access to these health data for any person. We are saying very clearly in this draft that there cannot be such broad access. We have still had requests from other authorities who would like to have access to the health information system. In particular, we have talked about the Ministry of Defence and the Office of Defence Resources in order to adequately assess the health status of young men when they are admitted to the profession. Here too, both we and the Data Protection Inspectorate have a clear view that without the consent of the person and without the limitations of data, which could also be provided in this form on paper, this access cannot be extended in any way. Human health records are sensitive personal data and are controlled by the person himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U342	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Küti!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U343	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the discussion on 159 draft amendments to the Social Benefits Act and the National Pension Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic at two sittings of the Social Committee. As the Minister for Social Affairs has already presented very thoroughly the objectives of the draft, I would not stop at that. I am talking specifically about the discussions that took place at these two sittings, on 23 January and 24 January, and who, apart from the Members of the Commission, took part there. On 23 January, the Minister of Social Affairs, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Adviser to the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs took part. The Minister of Social Affairs presented the history, coordination, objectives and content of the draft. At the second session, on 24 January, the chairman of the board of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Deputy Director General of the Social Insurance Board in the field of pensions and allowances, the expert advisor to the Social Insurance Board's social services and expertise department, representatives of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and adviser to the Minister of Social Affairs took part as guests. Both Commission meetings had very many questions. The second session included an overview of the views of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and the history of referrals and proposals. The President of the Board of the Chamber of People with Disabilities, Monika Haukamm, was also heard, who gave his position on this draft, namely coordination with the remark that the law could enter into force on 1 July. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; The Commission discussed the draft very thoroughly and asked a number of questions. I will now give an overview of the questions to which answers were expected and also received. In response to a question that would change for a disabled person, it was clarified that a person seeking the identification or incapacity to work of a disabled person or a disabled person would need to give his or her consent in order to have access to his or her sensitive personal data in the health information system by a third party, the expert doctor of the Social Insurance Board and an official concerned. This is what family doctors are asking for, because of a very heavy workload or something else. The Minister gave a comprehensive overview of the length of the history of this bill and also pointed out that the demands of family doctors are not only intended to reduce their workload, but certainly also to have more time to deal with patients. There was also the question of whether there was no detailed description of works and services included in the bounty paid to family doctors. The answer was that the description of health status is in the bounty, but the purpose of the draft is precisely to clean up the system. Now the same question that I also asked the Minister today, i.e. whether this person's consent is voluntary or coercive. That if a person does not give that consent, what does it entail when processing his or her data in the health information system by third parties? The Minister of Social Affairs explained, as well as the family doctors, that both systems operated in parallel. I think that this needs to be clarified during the next Commission meeting, because this document, which is attached to the draft law, provides that all data in the health information system are to be used and consulted by third parties as well as by expert doctors. There was also a question of why this has been so long, when family doctors have already turned to such concerns in the past. The Minister explained that this was, however, a delicate draft concerning personal data. In July 2011, coordination with the Ministry of Justice and the Data Protection Inspectorate began and, according to the proposals made, some changes had to be made to the text of the draft. A pilot project was launched in August 2011, which lasted until November 2011, but the results obtained were not such as to provide assurance that the system could be implemented from 1 January, as requested by the general practitioners. It was also a question of the promise made by the creation of a health information system that data would not be disbanded. Here it was answered that the health information system, i.e. e-health among the public, no problems, random people cannot read it, the sign lags behind, access is only for designated and allowed people. There was also concern that many people or some people do not trust the opportunities of the e-Governance and experience shows that they are above all not Estonian-speaking elderly people. The answer was that this cannot be a reason to refuse this bill, but rather to be clarified. It was said that family doctors have confirmed their readiness and thought that this date could be March 1, but what about the patients' side? The Social Insurance Board explained very thoroughly that IT development would be completed by the end of April, there would be little time for user training, and only 65% of the 400 family doctors had access to this information. As a result, the Social Insurance Board was concerned about quality rather than data protection issues. Some data may not yet be available in the health information system, as data for five years would actually be needed. As the draft explanatory memorandum shows, today 75 family doctors have not joined the health information system, although according to the law they should have joined since 2010. Family doctors were asked why more family doctors were expected to join. The representatives of family doctors replied that the motivation is now greater. Questions were also raised about the appeal and the representatives of the Social Insurance Board replied that the appeals were very different. They can be done now, and certainly this right will continue to be the case. The reasons for the disputes may be multiple, made because of the percentage of loss of work capacity or in the event of a negative decision, as well as if they are not satisfied with the degree of disability. There is a Commission that will review them and present its position. They asked what back-up plans, or option B, would be when problems arise with IT development solutions or testing. This was explained by the Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who said that according to the agreement staff were trained by the end of April. Deadlines and agreements have also been reached with the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Ministry of Justice. However, a reasonable period of time should be allowed for the implementation of the law. The House of the Disabled once again raised the issue that the purpose of the speedy amendment of the law cannot be to reduce the burden on family doctors, but to reduce the burden on the person and patient. The concern is that there is too much optimism; the law should not enter into force until 1 July. The view of family doctors was that changing the deadline for the entry into force of the law would not improve the data. The Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs pointed out that the use and execution of the information system is mandatory for doctors, but to some extent this bill creates a precedent that third parties also have the right to access the data of the Health Information System and that there are likely to still be applicants or visitors in the future. The Commission considered that it would also be necessary to meet the Estonian eHealth Foundation at its next meeting, and this was put on the agenda. The Social Affairs Committee decided to send the draft to the plenary agenda on Wednesday, 8 February, to conclude the first reading and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 12 noon on 13 February. The Commission's rapporteur was appointed to be a speaker before you. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U344	Good co-worker, thank you. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Viktor Vassilyev, representative of the Estonian Central Party, will be invited to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U345	Mr President of the sitting! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a positive draft. You can't fight progress. If disability is determined using the health information system, if that is necessary, how can there be a dispute. I wouldn't have climbed in front of you if a statement from the Estonian Patients' Association hadn't been received today, which states that although the draft explanatory memorandum states that the draft has also been submitted to them for an opinion, they have not seen this draft in time. They point out that the draft extends access to the health information system, but it also extends the range of persons who are given access to health data to sensitive personal data. The Estonian Patients' Association points out that the consent of the person is requested for the transmission of the data, but this consent may be quite formal, such as a bird in a square, a person may not notice it. Of course, they point out that the amendment to Regulation No 58 refers to the granting of access to certain third parties. But what bothers the patients most is that the bill will certainly be useful for the officials who deal with it, for the social workers, for the doctors, for anyone, but not for the patients, not for the people who seek to identify the disability. It will not do them any good, because neither the draft will shorten the deadlines, it will not be a word, it will not make the procedure any easier. All the drawbacks remain. These things have so far happened that when a person filed papers to determine the severity of the trees repeatedly and the decision was completed for a few or three weeks, sometimes a month after he finished his previous degree, that time was not covered financially. Nor does the current draft remedy this shortcoming. Then there is a provision that currently disturbs a very large number of people: in the case of the most severe disability, 100% loss of work capacity, it is still required to show itself every five years whether a person has grown a new leg or not. In certain cases, however, there might also be a right to decide that the disability will be determined forever and ever, which here will always run a human being. So it's probably a necessary law, and I can't put my hand in front of her or behind her, so let her go, but it's just one step on the long road. While the Centre Party Group supports this law, it hopes that others will follow, which will really improve the situation of people with disabilities, which will increase subsidies that will simplify procedures and generally improve our society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U346	Thank you. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, representative of the Social Democratic Party faction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U347	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned about a number of points in this bill. The government has come up with a draft aimed at extending access to human electronic health records, in other words, human history. He has also granted this right to the authorities, i.e. the Social Insurance Board. This right extends to the Social Insurance Institution if it is necessary to determine permanent incapacity for work, if it is a matter of identifying a disability, directing it to rehabilitation services, etc. The law provides that a person must first be asked if he or she agrees that his or her electronic health records will be supplemented by an official. However, if the person does not consent, the proceedings will not be initiated, which means that he or she will not be deprived of his or her degree of disability, or he or she will not be given permanent incapacity to work if he or she needs it. When we talk about the relationship between the doctor and the patient, I remember very well how the e-health system was created here in the Riigikogu. At the time, the principle was that only the doctor to whom the patient turns has the right to look at the patient's other medical records, if necessary, so that not every doctor, and not every way possible, does not have the right to do so. Of course, the patient also has the right to partially or fully cover his or her data in this electronic file. However, as has already been said here, if we now start by saying that, in any case, if the patient does not consent, he will be deprived of the degree of disability or rehabilitation service, and we will extend it to accessors in a similar way, then perhaps after a while an insurance company will come. Today, everyone says no, it's not possible that they can use this data, but, you know, after a while it might be possible. So that's the problem. In fact, the current possibility that the patient can deal with the doctor should remain, and not third parties are the ones who can "groom" your health records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U348	Thank you. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U349	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Sometimes I wonder how it's possible to make simple things difficult for me. So let's go over a few things that are fundamental, once again. I'm sorry that Dr. Vassilyev has left the room, but in response to a letter from the patients' representative society, no one is going to get any additional access or information from the human health records compared to today. We are talking about the fact that the data that is currently collected per person on paper can also be retrieved digitally and there is no need for double work. At this point in time, the family doctor is obliged to include data on persons in the health information system. If a description of the medical condition is required to identify a disability or incapacity for work, it shall do so again but shall do so on paper. This draft proposes that the same data that it has already entered can be viewed from where they are entered. No one has access without justification. Similarly, it is not possible to view any other data. This is clearly stated that you can view the limited data and you can view the data that is currently on paper. The principle is that when a person comes to formalize a disability or incapacity for work, his or her medical condition is assessed. It is not possible to assess the state of health if the person does not agree. As a result, it is not possible to formalise disability or incapacity to work unless a person is willing to disclose his or her health data. Very simple principles. Let us not think of this draft as so complex for ourselves that it cannot be dealt with. You shouldn't think that something's going to get any more open to anyone. Once again, I say that if the human data is on paper, they are much less verifiable and can be copied no matter how many paper copies. If these data are digitally stored, then every use can be seen in the Health Information System, who asked when they asked. If there are abuses, there will be penalties. Digital control is much greater than the control of the use of paper health data. So this draft is not aimed at simplifying the work of officials, but is primarily aimed at giving family doctors more opportunity to deal with patients and substantive work. Once they've entered the medical records, they won't have to do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-08_U350	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for tabling 159 amendments at 12 noon on 13 February 2012. The first reading is closed and the sixth item on the agenda is closed. Dear members of the Riigikogu, thank you! Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.27 p.m.
