ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U2	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu, President of the Republic, President Rüütel, Prime Minister, Ministers, constitutional officials, Excellencys, guests! I am opening the fourth session of the XIIth Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U3	Mr President, President Rüütel, members of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Ministers, constitutional officials, Your Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen! This year, twenty years have passed since the first Riigikogu was elected following the restoration of Estonia's independence. We are also celebrating the 20th anniversary of the Estonian Constitution adopted in the referendum of 28 June 1992. I thank the members of the Constitutional Assembly who created the Constitution, which has served Estonia well. It has allowed us to move from a command economy to a market economy, become a democratic constitutional state where fundamental rights are respected and protected, and judicial control of public authority functions. During these twenty years, the Constitution has been amended only four times. This, in my opinion, confirms two things in particular. Firstly, the text resulting from agreements and compromises in the disputes between the Constitutional Assembly has met the needs of statehood development and has enabled the objectives of the various governments to be achieved. Secondly, we have developed a culture of constitutional change, according to which only such changes will enter into force, which the political forces quite unanimously consider essential for Estonia's development. No one, even the founding fathers of our constitution, could have dreamed that twelve years later Estonia would join the European Union and therefore the Constitution would have to be improved. Similarly, they did not realise that in 2012 we would be facing a crisis in the financial system, which would require a new approach and perhaps a change in the constitution. I agree with those experts who believe that if we want to preserve the Constitution as the basis document of an authoritative and functioning Estonian state, we need to assess whether the Constitution actually adequately reflects the constitutional reality that has developed to date. The possibility that the Constitution needs to be amended in connection with developments in the European Union was also highlighted by the Supreme Court in its recent decision on the constitutionality of the Treaty establishing a European Stability Mechanism. It is our task, ladies and gentlemen, to try to keep these developments in mind carefully and to discuss which solutions will ensure the sustainability of the Constitution and of the country that operates on it and the preservation of our fundamental values in the coming decades. The formation of a European democratic state would not have been possible without the smooth functioning of the institutions created by the Constitution, in which everyone has a role and responsibility. The Riigikogu is the legitimator of power and the founder of the rules of law, the preparation and implementation of major decisions by the government, the symbol of the state and the balance of powers by the President, the Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office, providers of misdemeanours, and the court defender of fundamental rights and the resolution of conflicts. Looking back, it should be noted that the concepts of cooperation and division of power have not always, or in all, coincided. For example, disputes about the limits of competence of the Riigikogu and the President have reached the Supreme Court several times in the first years of the term of validity of the Constitution. However, they have helped to improve relations between the institutions and strengthen constitutional order. I consider it extremely important, in my opinion, that the idea of our most important law also requires that cooperation between constitutional institutions be based on mutual respect. When viewed by the Riigikogu, it is not appropriate, for example, to have a disparaging statement of the parliament of a member of the government. I do not want to say that the Riigikogu must not be judged. Far from it. It is possible to opt for political initiatives and to criticise the decisions taken, it is possible to condemn certain behaviours or practices, tendencies, but all this must be done without undermining the dignity of the representative of the people. Parliament is a simple target for criticism, because Parliament is a body where different views and perceptions of the development of the country and the interests of the people are represented, where there is debate and where there is political struggle in various forms. Parliament is made up of people who, like everyone else, may be wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, We must bear in mind that the expectations of Members of Parliament are high and that the error of every MP leaves a shadow to the entire Riigikogu. But let us not forget that this is a central democratic institution in accordance with the Constitution. The metaphorical expression used for the Riigikogu, which at first glance seems appalling and witty, may, in the long term, begin to live its life and damage the entire democratic system. Honourable Riigikogu! The summer was a busy summer for Parliament's Committee on Finance, Constitutional Affairs and European Union Affairs. I would like to thank the members of these committees for their contribution to the preparation of the ratification of the European Stability Mechanism Treaty. It is clear that none of us have a favourable debt crisis, which has taken up several countries in the euro zone. Unfortunately, the welfare of these countries also affects us and our decisions. The debate that took place in society during the ratification of the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) prompts me to ask whether we are looking at being in the European Union as a financial transaction. Did Estonia really join the European Union, bearing in mind only the aid that is given to economically weaker members? I also think that taxpayers in net-paying countries do not want to be donors from economically weaker countries. Estonia continues to be among those members of the European Union who receive more than they give. This will continue to be the case for the next financial perspective. Yes, Estonia has also received support for many things, starting with the construction of village centres and ending with social projects and investment in science. It would also be worth counting on how many jobs have been created thanks to European aid. I am convinced that for many people the reason for joining the European Union was much deeper: the European Union and NATO guarantee the security of Estonia. Consider our geopolitical location and history. We don't have a better choice than Europe. We are part of Europe. Good listeners! The expectations of society are high on many issues. The Riigikogu will certainly continue to discuss important topics in this hall, whether they include public sector salaries, child benefits or educational restructuring. This autumn we will normally have to deal with the state budget for next year. It is up to us politicians to find an optimal solution through discussions to make the best use of the limited resources of the state. I hope we all do our best and do a good job. I wish you a good autumn session. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U4	Mr President, I ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U5	Good Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen! As I stood before you today, I would have been able to go the easy way of resisting, talking long and hard about party funding, giving a harsh and condemning assessment of everything, and receiving a large part of the media and the public's applause. Yeah, I'm gonna talk about parties and money, but I'm gonna do it a little bit later and a little bit in the other key and the tonality. First of all, I do what I don't praise. I congratulate you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, for the work you did here ten days ago when you ratified the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism on behalf of the Republic of Estonia. The reason why this agreement is needed, I will come to a halt in the future. But I was impressed by the way the Riigikogu organised its work and, with it, disproved the opinion as if the Estonian Parliament had retreated from the government to the silent approval of the drafts. According to our constitution, the people have delegated power to you, ladies and gentlemen, and you used it. You have thoroughly and essentially changed the document that was originally in your hands. You grazed out the characteristics of the vicious legislation that I and many legal scientists have been accusing Parliament of over time. Thank you for that! Good Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! No country can offer its people a sense of well-being and security today, neither the United States, China, Russia, nor Germany. Whether we like it or not, economic and security matters are decided by national associations. Estonia must make its choices in this world, in this world, and now. We cannot change the general rules of the world; we cannot change our position, but we have the right to vote and the right to vote in the community of the countries to which we belong. Could Estonia close to itself, stand aside from Europe, without again losing freedom, without falling back into a foreign cultural space and misery? The answer is no. A strong Europe is in the interests of Estonia and of all small countries, where the national identity of small countries is also taken into account. So, our only option is to choose the best partners. Estonia has chosen the best partners. We need peace, freedom, a culture of European concern. All countries are making efforts to keep close to the countries that share their goals and thinking. They compromise, regardless of their size and wealth. The European Union was our goal for the last twenty years. This palace, to reach back to Europe, to its historical home, pushed us hard for nearly fifteen years to build our country in such a way that it would fit into the European pattern. We can ask if we've done well. Yeah, I think so. Estonia has done much better than most of these countries and nations, who received more than two decades ago the opportunity to choose their own future. I will not, like an accountant, pick up how many billion euros or kroons we have received from the European Union and how much we have given in return. Money is important, but the European way of life, the values that prevail in our society, cannot only be reflected in money. I know that we increasingly take our achievements for granted. Many believe that it was the Estonian singing revolution that overthrowed the Soviet Union. Many believe that it is our sustainable attitude that will show the way forward for all our European friends. Let us forget for a moment this self - centered assessment of success that warms us, even though it has more than just a grain of truth. Let us accept that we are where we are today, because we are in the European Union, NATO, the euro zone, because we have good friends, allies and partners. Let us honestly appreciate all this, and then let us think in depth whether we are willing to give it up. Even so, with our decisions, we are beginning to weaken the European Union and the euro zone. Good Riigikogu! The content of the ESM debate overshadowed a very simple, emotional and misleading question, both here and in almost every home: why must a relatively poor Estonia pay off in the context of the eurozone Member States, the poorest of us, the poorest of countries, and the poorest of our powers? And who will the money be paid for if necessary? When such misconceptions have spread so much, we have all failed to do anything. I want to ask you seriously, honourable members of the Riigikogu: have you consistently explained to your voters what is the content of the ESM, what it means for the countries on the verge of bankruptcy, and what is it most important to us? If the explanations had been sufficient, such widespread misconceptions would not have occurred. Finally, we have to ask: is it beneficial or harmful for Estonia to be part of the euro area, and is a strong and united European Union in the national and national interests of Estonia? My answers to these questions are unambiguous and clear. Yes, Estonia benefits from a strong and functioning European Union. Yes, membership of the euro area and, logically as a result, staying in the euro area is beneficial for Estonia. Just because foreign investors regained faith and lost devaluation pressure. If this pressure had been given in, a significant number of people would have lost their homes. We cannot sell our goods and services if our partners are bankrupt. If we can't sell, there's no point in producing, and if there's no point in producing, there's no job. If there is no job, there is no well-being and there is no way to help with the redistribution, as the state budget simply dries up. The people have a logical question: could Estonia have behaved differently, more rationally, more intelligently in view of the future? What is the alternative? The Estonian people are exemplaryly educated and smart; the Estonian people deserve an honest explanation. We're all worried about you with all our heart. Unfortunately, the opponents of the ESM and the European Union have not formulated any well-designed alternative development paths in Estonia. Following Estonia's rapid recovery from the global financial and economic crisis in 2008, it is impossible to overlook the circumstances that contributed to the recovery. First of all, I am thinking of a very practical matter, or money: the fact that Estonia was able to use the money of the European Union budget and was able to use it well saved our economy and our country from worse. Secondly, our location and trading partners. Estonia was helped by the rapid adaptation of our entrepreneurs to change and the fact that the main buyers of our goods live in Finland, Sweden and Germany, the countries that were relatively few affected by financial shocks and economic difficulties. Talking about these things, our idea of being in Europe, is the first duty of every politician, not just the President. We can be sure that there will be a great deal of talk about the future of the European Union and the euro zone in the coming years. Let us be active players in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the financial crisis, it has been said very much that it was, above all, a crisis of values and trust. Money and banking in general remain trustful. If there are too many risks for short-term benefits, trust will be lost and the whole system will collapse. There's no trust in the banks. There will be no trust in those countries that live on loan money. There is a loss of trust in those countries that, while promising, fail to fulfil their obligations. You lose confidence in those who haven't been honest in their books. Now the bitter fruits of dishonesty and overliving are in hand: lies were lied to partners, lies were lied to banks who lent loans to countries without fair monetary and economic policies. This loan was not used for innovation but for running costs. The actual productivity and income of the state's employees and the false well-being of the loan money were in stark contrast. It's not gonna last long. We all know that. So we have no reason to envy countries in distress or their citizens. All of this has been accompanied by a crisis of confidence in these countries themselves. Countries and nations also remain trustful, especially small countries and societies, including Estonia. Estonia has done well in the decades following the restoration of independence compared to its fellow fates. Some justify our success by maintaining Estonia's generation of independence during the occupation. Some refer to our national identity and even to the civil society that has survived in spite of the Soviet regime. The faith of the Estonian people in their country, family and fellow citizens is not less important and the will to contribute every day to the improvement of their people's welfare by honest work. We have believed in our country and, although it may sound strange, as a nation, we have also trusted the people we have chosen to lead our country. We have trusted our political system more than any other nation with whom we were freed from the Soviet occupation at the same time. If we look around Europe, we can see that trust in our country is one of the greatest here, including trust in the European Union and in the euro. This faith and trust are our greatest value, our capital. After all, we see what is happening in those countries where trust is lost. This trust, this trust capital, must be preserved against all hardships and temptations. Good Riigikogu! Responsibility for maintaining this trust rests with every resident of Estonia, every citizen of Estonia, also an artist, a businessman or a driver on the Tallinn road in Tartu. But most of all, it is politicians who are responsible for maintaining this trust at any level of authority. In charge of the President, you, the good members of the Riigikogu and the government, are responsible for every representative of the local authorities, each of them is responsible. Any game with this trust weakens, undermines and damages Estonia and may eventually destroy our common state. The people have not delegated their power to anyone for that. I am therefore very concerned if the relationship between politics and money is not perfectly clear and transparent. I am concerned when voters and the people start to suspect that the parties and their representatives in public authorities live on the basis of some of their own rules, but only those that they know about them. It is no longer an Estonia of our dreams, where it is believed that power is a closed box, clan or cartel. In a free society, dominance cannot be closed. On the contrary, healthy competition, honest criticism, clear responsibility must always be maintained. The system of funding parties, the electoral arrangements and Parliament's rules of procedure have started to restrict competition, even unfair competition has arisen in the electoral situation. The people of Estonia do not like it. And rightfully, I don't. There is an unacceptable amount of congestion and disappointment, too much this year. It's accompanied by anger. I follow with concern this tone and emotion that sounds in media and government exchanges of views. Sometimes it seems that the aim here is no longer to explain the choices that the country faces in terms of development, but to try to hurt each other. On purpose. And as much as possible. I have recently read quite a lot about how, in the United States in preparation for the presidential elections, the escalation between the media and politicians and politicians has destroyed the opportunity to find the necessary compromises to help the country and the people out of their difficulties. It takes sentences out of context and beats each other and makes it impossible to talk to each other. Nobody listens to the arguments of substance anymore; instead of a debate, there is a banging competition. Good Riigikogu, good people of Estonia, are we not going in the same direction? One minute, it's going to be a downward spiral. With it comes contempt for our political system, democracy and the Estonian state. It is what we have read about in the history books and what we see happening in many countries, which are falling deeper and deeper into the swamp of the economic crisis than by chance. Because when a country is no longer its own and reliable, citizens will also lose their desire to deal with that country, to communicate honestly with it. Then the hero will be the one who can draw the politicians and officials who represent this country and the country most cleverly. Good friends! Just as Estonia has its own, the whole of Europe has its own worries and joys, and that is the way to view it. Take care. With responsibility, as it were for free people. In our responsibility for our words and actions, we keep our freedoms and the benefits of a democratic state. Among other things, we keep our freedom to judge politicians and state authority sometimes without fear of being punished for it. But let us save these reproaches for cases when politicians and the power of the state really give us reason to do so. For example, when our elected representatives of the people, at any level of power, treat citizens with disrespect, do not listen to their legitimate or even unwarranted complaints and do not explain their decisions. Then we detach from the country, and dissatisfaction with power is inevitable. When politicians complain that they are being harmed, it is often said that they are. However, this is the result of an earlier attitude, a cumulative reluctance, which eventually manifests itself in exaggerated reactions. This may indeed be inadequate in some individual cases, but in the light of the preceding context, it is entirely to be expected. Good fellow countrymen! If the state does not take citizens into account, then the blame in a democratic country is always two-sided. If the citizens, the civil society, the free citizens themselves do nothing, but when they get rid of responsibility, they say that they are not involved in politics or that, when they are dealing with improving their living environment, God himself becomes a politician, then the actions of the decision-makers remain the only one for us. As citizens, as free people, we have the right to be disappointed and critical. But we will not turn our backs on Estonia, our country. We alone decide what political culture and the atmosphere of state life we want. Is there a Byzantine climate of fear in which citizens are treated as property and slaves? Or the kind of cleverness where laws are turned to the desires of politicians and then taken as an example by all members of society? Or, as it seems to me, do we really want and demand, and we are working for, the honesty and transparency of the north, where the country is our common property? Hence my response to the burning question of whether a minister should resign. He has no direct obligation to do so. The investigation is ongoing and there's no way of knowing if it's ever gonna come to trial. We can give many examples of other countries, including the European Union, where ministers, as well as prime ministers and presidents, have been under investigation for years, but they have not resigned. The choice is to make the minister himself, his fellow governmentmen and his party. I hope they all understand clearly that this choice will shape Estonian political culture, the way in which Estonia is now and will be governed and things will be done in the future, whether power and governance are reliable. Trust, as I said earlier, is the capital of Estonia, which cannot be tolerated. Good Riigikogu! Trust in Europe is not okay right now. That's how we have to worry about things that still seemed natural yesterday. But first of all, we need to worry that we can keep Estonia in the best possible form. Keep it right, if you'll excuse me. We must restore confidence as well and as quickly as we can. You've got to stop being so mean to each other. We must view the people with the greatest possible respect and attention, find a way to support those who are in trouble, also to confirm their faith in the future of Estonia. Our people have always known this supreme desire and task without words. Thank you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U6	Thank you, Mr President. (It sounds like Juhan Liivi and Peep Sarapik's song "He's Flying to the Beehive.")
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U7	In the performance of the male choir of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, we all heard a well-known song "He flies towards the honey tree," a song by Peep Sarapik to the words of Juhan Liivi. Thank you to the singers of the male choir of the Estonian Academy of Sciences and to the conductors Andrus Siimon and Kuno Development! Let's have another big round of applause!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. I request the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U9	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. Secondly, the draft Act approving Annex 9 to the International Convention on the Harmonization of the Conditions of Border Control of Goods. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U10	Thank you. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I also welcome you on the day of the first autumn session. I hope that this session will be politically sharp, but it will be beneficial to the people in every way. But now I would like to take the bull by the horns and report an inquiry to the esteemed Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimud. Concerns relate to metal thefts, or rather to illegal activities at the buying-in points that trade stolen metal. A few days ago, "The Spectator" also started his season with a worrying episode, which, I understand, will continue this week. There, metal thefts were actually described for our country from strategically important objects. As we know, seven people have recently been killed who have fallen into open sewer wells, the hatches of which had been sold. As we know, it is a duty to monitor the purchase of metal at the Environmental Inspectorate in charge of the Ministry of the Environment. That is why 16 members of our group want to know whether the circumstances presented in the programme are new to the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Inspectorate or not, what has been done to reduce this problem and what is the plan to eliminate this problem in Estonian society at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U12	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Ladies and gentlemen, Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft Act on the ratification of the International Agricultural Development Fund Treaty, initiated on 30 August, of which the commission is the Committee on Rural Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Public Information Act, initiated on 30 August, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Prisons Act, the Penal Care Act and the Penal Code, initiated on 30 August, of which the commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs; fourthly, the Government of the Republic. On 30 August 2011, the Riigikogu issued a draft decision on the approval of the State's summary report for the financial year 2011, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; fifth, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the protection of ambient air and the amendment of the Law on liquid fuel initiated on 30 August, the commission of which is the Committee on the Environment; the sixth, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act, initiated on 30 August, of which the commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 6 September, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's communication "Renewable energy: an important player in the European energy market" to the European Union Commission and appointed the Economic Commission and the Committee on the Environment to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 September 2010 at 4 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. Members of the Riigikogu Olga Sõtnik, Valeri Korb, Eldar Efendiev, Lauri Laas, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Eesmaa and Viktor Vassilyev have taken back their s. No 169 of 15 May presented to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir about the Estonian Internet Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, please, let's do the presence check! 94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 7. This week's agenda is on the table. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 90 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, one against and no abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U13	We will begin work on the agenda items, i.e. the response to requests for information begins. The first question is about the members of the Riigikogu Heimar Leng and Marika Tuus-Laul on 8 May s. a request for information on the return of assets of displaced persons to Germany in the course of the ownership reform. I would like to ask my colleague, Heimar Leng, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry was already handed over in May. The ownership reform in Estonia has come to an end, but new cases have started to appear in recent months, when the return of property has begun to be reviewed, new cases have emerged when former owners or their descendants have called for a review. The moods of forced tenants spread, as everyone can lose their home again. There have been cases like this. For example, Nõmme Metsa street building 45 had been left to tenants in Tallinn. It wasn't returned ten years ago, but now it's returned. In fact, the decision was almost made at Harju County Government. At the request of the tenants' association, we submitted an inquiry to the Prime Minister to find out what the real state of the property reform in Estonia is, whether it has been completed or terminated, whether the return of property is still ongoing, why, despite repeated requests from tenants, the government has not turned to the German archives to check specifically whether the owners ever received compensation for their property when they left Germany at Hitler's invitation, etc. I've questioned with Marika Tuus-Laul, where there are five questions. This concerns this part of our population, about 100,000 people who lost their homes in the course of the property reform and whose great concern, unfortunately, has done nothing to alleviate the great tragedy of the government. Since the answers on this subject have always been very superficial in the Riigikogu's remoteness and have confirmed that the respondents do not know the subject, I will, Prime Minister, give you a book in front of the Riigikogu, issued by the Union of Estonian Tenants. I'm the author of this book myself. There are a number of tragic stories that have been written by Estonian residents. These stories tell about the progress of ownership reform and the horrors of this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U15	I call on the speaker's desk to respond to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U16	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: "When is the Government of the Republic going to introduce a new regime for the return of the assets of displaced persons to Germany? The process is currently underway at the level of insufficient competence of officials, in which tenants living in returning homes belonging to displaced persons cannot obtain specific answers from the Commission to their questions. The Supreme Court has referred to the need for such a new regime through several judgments. " In its judgment No 3-3-2-1-07 of 10 March 2008, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court took the view that the local committees for the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets had to deal with the declarations concerning unlawfully disposed assets belonging to German displaced persons. As a result of the decision, the reopening of the refund procedures does not require any additional regulation, since the guidelines for the operation of the local committees are contained in the positions of the General Assembly. The need for additional regulation has been discussed in advance at the level of the Government of the Republic, Riigikogu and the court, but in the end, the position supporting this judgment by the Supreme Court has remained dominant that the claims for the return and compensation of property referred to in § 7 (3) that were repealed in the Law on the Foundations of Property Reform must be dealt with in accordance with the legislation in force. After that provision has been repealed, the persons defined by that provision no longer distinguish between other persons to whom the law grants the right to apply for the return or compensation of unlawfully disposed assets. The Supreme Court has made only one clarification on the possibility of submitting new applications. The second question: "Who do you think should check compliance with § 17 (5) of the Property Reform Act? This section, as we know, obliges the return of houses to displaced persons to check whether or not the former owner has received compensation from Germany. "According to paragraph 33 of the procedure for the submission and examination of applications for the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets and for the submission and assessment of evidence, confirmed by the Government of the Republic by Decree No 161 of 28 August 1991, the acceptance of the applications shall verify whether the assets mentioned in the declaration have not been returned previously or paid for on the basis of Regulation No 81 of the Council of Ministers of the Estonian SSR of 20 February 1989 or otherwise. On the basis of the information collected, the local committee for the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets shall decide whether to recognise the person making the application as a legitimate subject of the property reform or to reject its application. Thus, the implementation of § 17 (5) of the Property Reform Foundation Act is controlled by the local committee for the return and compensation of unlawfully transferred assets, which, after the amendment of the Law which entered into force on 1 September 2010, can only be the county commission for the location of the property. The third question: "To date, only the City Government of Tallinn has checked the compensation and received reports from the German archives in a number of cases that, however, in the case of houses that have already been returned to former owners, this has also been the payment of compensation in advance by the German Government. Therefore, the return has not been in accordance with Estonian law. How is the return of the assets returned to the displaced persons ensured in accordance with § 17 (5) of the ORAS? In addition to Harjumaa, the assets of migrants have been returned in Narva, Pärnu, Tartu, Saaremaa, Viljandi and elsewhere. Who controls these returns? " Pursuant to § 17 (5) of the Property Reform Foundation Act, a person is not entitled to claim the return or compensation of property that has already been returned or compensated. Therefore, the possibility of early repayment or compensation must be verified not only in cases relating to so-called'sequential relocation', but in all proceedings for the return and compensation of assets. The ownership reform legislation determines the principles and procedures for compensation of unlawfully disposed assets. It is possible to assess precisely whether compensation granted and paid under these legislation is lawful and excludes a second compensation. An asset cannot be considered to be compensated if the earlier compensation is less than prescribed by law. We recognise that it is much more difficult to classify benefits, benefits, pension supplements and other benefits granted to persons for different purposes and amounts in other countries, which in some way relate to assets disposed of in Estonia. Any general rule to define and identify these benefits may prove to be incomplete. The Ministry of Finance, responsible for the return and compensation of assets, has taken the view that the compatibility of compensations granted on other grounds with the conditions laid down in § 17 (5) of the Property Reform Act can only be assessed on a case-by-case basis on the basis of general legal principles and specific conditions. The views formed in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice on this issue have been published in a letter addressed to the Tallinn City Government and all local committees for the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed property from 20 May 2008 No 1-1.13/5336. In summary, the compensation received could exclude the return of the property only if its amount is close to the value of the assets disposed of and if there was no provision among the conditions for obtaining the compensation which explicitly retained the possibility of recovering the assets to the recipient. The first condition is derived from the principles of ownership and protection, which are reflected in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Compensation granted outside the ownership reform acquis, which should be recognised as excluding the return of assets, may not be significantly lower than the actual value of the asset, i.e. the normal value. The second condition stems from the nature of the benefit received from the other State. If it is not intended to compensate for damage caused by loss of property, which precludes a later return of property, but to support a certain circle of persons on the basis of the principle of solidarity so that they can adapt to the new social environment, and the provider of compensation makes a clear distinction between this objective and a possible institution in the future, then a good justification does not allow the request of another country's legislator to be ignored and the legitimate expectation resulting therefrom to be ignored. In doing so, however, the persons seeking the return of the property must be aware that the return is accompanied by an unavoidable obligation to repay the compensation received from the other State. By the way, the same principle of compensation has also been established for our property reform, as a special rule in East Petseri County and in Viru County beyond the Narva River, as the retention of the right to a claim for the return of assets unlawfully disposed of. Compensation for property located in these areas does not deprive the person of the right to demand the return of the same property if it proves possible in the future, but in the event of the return of the property, he must repay the compensation received from the Republic of Estonia. It has become clear from the correspondence with the authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany that the appointment and payment or transfer of contractual benefits or replacement assets can be identified in individual cases on the basis of archival data, but some of the relevant archive material has been destroyed or is not available for research. At the request of the local committees, the Ministry of Finance has sent enquiries to the German State Archives in order to obtain information on a total of 245 persons to establish whether the contractual compensation has been received. The assessment of documents received from the State Archives is the responsibility of the county committees for the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets. According to the Ministry of Finance, no contractual compensation or acquisition of replacement assets has been established in any case. After the war, the Federal Republic of Germany paid solidarity benefits to persons from other countries who were displaced and displaced in Germany, which were determined on the basis of the value of the property abandoned or disposed of. The purpose of this measure was not to provide adequate compensation for lost assets, but to help immigrants to recover. By the way, in 1946 the number of migrants, refugees and exiles in the then occupied Germany was estimated at 9.6 million. This figure increased further over time. The Law on Solidarity Benefits of 1952 on Childrennausgleichsgesetz provided that the acceptance of the benefit does not deprive a person of the right to claim the return of property if it subsequently proves possible. If the property is returned, it must repay the solidarity benefit to the Federal Republic. This shows that these are not compensations that are excluded from reorganisation, as is generally the case in the case of compensation granted in the framework of the Estonian property reform, except for the special rule concerning the areas behind the Narva River and the areas of East Petseri County mentioned above. The local committees for the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets have interpreted the earlier compensation of the property in a number of ways. The Tallinn City Government has identified solidarity compensation in several refund procedures and has recognised the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets until 31 August 2010 as non-refundable compensation by the Tallinn City Commission. A number of applicants have challenged the decision of the City Commission. In some subsequent cases, the Court has taken a position in support of the City Commission (e.g. the judgment of the Tallinn Circuit Court of 15 June 2011 in administrative case No 3-10-2818), but not in some cases. Many procedures and cases for the return and compensation of assets previously held as resettled persons are still ongoing and it is difficult to predict the outcome of this extremely complex process. At present, there is no reason to claim that the return of the property has not taken place in accordance with the law. The possible early compensation of the property shall be verified and decided by the Regional Committee on the return and compensation of the property unlawfully disposed of as a legitimate subject of the ownership reform of the persons seeking its return and the decision to return the property shall be taken by the local authority. The governor will supervise the return of the property. Question 4: "When is the Government of the Republic planning the end of the property reform? " The experience of a civilized world shows that property disputes can last decades and longer. Nearly 139000, or more than 99%, have been satisfied in Estonia with 140000 restitution claims. However, the programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2011 to 2015 provides for the completion of the property reform as one of its objectives. Question 5: "Does the Government of the Republic intend to develop a financial compensation mechanism for the material and intangible damage caused to the tenants who lost their homes, which thousands of families in Estonia received, but to whom no compensation has been paid so far? "The Government of the Republic does not intend to develop additional compensation mechanisms for tenants of dwellings returned to former owners. Various measures have been taken in this regard all along the way, starting with the former so-called EVP loans and ending with support for municipal housing. The kind of compensation was also, in essence, a long-term introduction of rent limits well below the market price. It is a pity that after the Soviet troops left Estonia, some of the municipalities plowed the premises belonging to these troops and belonging to them just as easily, instead of privatising it, I use the term used by the questioners, for forced tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U17	Thank you. Prime Minister! These were very interesting answers, many moments I had never heard before. I want to say that over the last year, forced tenants and the tenants' union have repeatedly turned to German archives. All these enquiries (there are a dozen) have shown that those who have left Germany have received compensation. There are also a few decisions of the Supreme Court that have declared the return of property unlawful. But my question is specific. You spoke of consolation compensations, or what you called them, and said that real compensation must be within the price of the house. Prime Minister, at what year's prices did you operate, or did the minister who prepared the speech for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U18	Perhaps those who have once paid compensation have had to operate at the prices at which the compensation was paid. That's what I think is most natural.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U19	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U20	Thank you. As I have already mentioned in my reply, the Ministry of Finance has addressed the Federal Republic of Germany in 245 cases. The responses received (if they have even been able to be provided on the basis of archive material) have spoken of very different forms of compensation. This must be reflected in the judgments of our court. In certain cases, the Court has held that the assets have already been compensated in advance and that the return of the assets is therefore not lawful. In other cases, on the contrary, what I also mentioned in my reply has been found that the compensation paid to migrants is not intended to compensate for the property, but to start living in a new environment. In such cases, the Court has held that those persons have the full right to recover their assets. There are many kinds of internships. As you yourself mentioned in your question, each particular case needs a separate in-depth analysis. The ruler approach is obviously not appropriate here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U21	Thank you. Prime Minister! Do you not think that the government should look very closely at these compensations in the German archives? As the previous speaker said, there have been very many cases where this money has ever been paid out in 1961 to 1970. Right now, in court, the owners simply spin and give false statements, and in these matters a different decision is made. Shouldn't we do a very general investigation and investigate each case in particular once more so that justice can prevail?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U22	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U23	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! I will begin my speech on the basis of your speech. You said at random, without having any information, that the Estonian courts have often also taken into account that compensation has been received for houses and have not returned these houses. I have a twenty-year internship and I have worked for a long time in the Association of Estonian Tenants, but I do not know of any such cases. There may have been somewhere else, but at least in the case of large and expensive buildings in Tallinn, I do not remember such cases. Judgments have all been unambiguous: return, return and return. What about the Prime Minister's presentation? Unfortunately, nobody in this remote control is getting much closer to the essence of ownership reform. However, thousands of forced tenants (we call forced tenants those who have lost their homes in our eyes in the course of unfair ownership reform) expect the government to resolve their difficult situation. They want to see even the government's desire to understand the concerns of forced tenants. However, we must wait a very, very long time to understand the difficult nature of ownership reform. I can't imagine which Estonian Prime Minister would come to this remote control and apologize to the tenants. To date, the Coalition of the IRL and Reform Party has not offered any means of making up for their material but also moral damage to their families who have been evicted from their homes. The question always arises as to how it may have happened that tens of thousands of families could be brought straight to the street under the laws in force in the days of independent Estonia. We've seen these cases on videotapes. We've seen them on photos. I know, and the tenants' union knows a lot of these cases. There are thousands of people on our list who were taken to the street with their furniture and cat. Twenty years after the beginning of the ownership reform and the long trials, it has become apparent that a number of houses have been returned illegally to the successors of former owners. Now I come to the question. According to the information received from the German archives, all those who relocated to Germany at Hitler's invitation and were asked by the tenants' association have received compensation. The Prime Minister is now using new terms. The latest data only came to us last week when a delegation of tenants returned from Germany. The tenants demand that the state itself address the German archives in an official manner. The Prime Minister said it's been done 245 times. Unfortunately, I have not heard of these cases, nor has the tenants' union heard of them. Maybe it's been turned, but the results have not been published anywhere. In any case, we should find out. A new inquiry should be made to find out the owners whose fortunes these enquiries have been made. The question arises as to how long this injustice will last. It's been going on for twenty years. Twenty years have been discussing the nature of the property reform in Estonia, but the situation of the forced tenants has not improved in any way, perhaps even worse. In the spring of this year, it became clear that many cases that had been resolved in favour of tenants (if the word could be used) will now be re-examined. After the Prime Minister ordered an investigation into the return of the homes of the capital city to Harju County, where reform parties are in power. Harju County Elder Mrs. Rajasalu has done a pretty good job there, and the right many families have been alarmed again because there is no telling what will happen to these houses. Ten years were lived in peace, but now it suddenly became clear that the descendants of the descendants of their owners, who still want to get back this tree house in Nõmme or the fancy expensive property in the city centre. It is sad to mention that all these tragic cases are connected by one thing: they are mainly Estonian families. Russian families have been affected very little by this problem because they mainly lived in Mustamäe, but Estonians who lived in Pirita, Nõmme, Pärnu and Tartu have been affected very much by this tragedy. Unfortunately, the Chancellor of Justice also said in the spring of this very remote area that he was no longer dealing with this problem. Now I just don't know what to do with this problem anymore. But it is clear that thousands of people have made the current power of Estonia, our own power, not the power of a foreign state, homeless. All these people had to buy a new apartment, move in with relatives, etc., without a single cent or a lumpy allowance. In particular, the fact that the government does not understand their problem has offended tenants. The present Prime Minister has not even apologized for the injustice done to the forced tenants, even though it would be an example from history. The countrymanship of the Australian government could set an example for us here. The Australian government in the name of Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, a year and a half ago, apologized to the Australian natives for the great injustice caused to Aboriginals by excavating their lands, separating their families, and expelling people from their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U24	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's start by answering questions. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U25	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U26	We will go to the following question: Members of the Riigikogu Inara Luigase, Rainer Vakra, Deniss Borodichi, Lembit Kaljuvee and Kalle Laaneti on 31 May. a request for information on the FTT submitted (No 174). Inara Luigas, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U27	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, May 31st s. We handed over an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The content of the inquiry is financial transaction taxes. As a preliminary point, the European Parliament has approved a report proposing a Council directive on a financial transaction tax and system and amending Directive 2008/7/EC. The European Commission has also proposed tax rates on financial transactions, namely 0.1% for securities and shares and 0.01% for derivatives. This is what the European Parliament thinks is absolutely appropriate. It is considered that transactions in pension funds should remain exempt from the FTT. Surveys have been conducted in the European Union and 66% of respondents believe that there should be a financial transaction tax in the European Union. The discussions on this tax issue have highlighted that the FTT is an integral part of the exit from the crisis and that it also distributes all the burdens arising from the crisis more fairly. There has also been a debate on how the revenue from the FTT will be distributed. It is estimated that part of this revenue will have to be entered in the budget of the European Union, part of the budget of the Member States of the European Union. As a result, contributions from the Member States of the European Union should also be reduced. If you look at the question in the context of Estonia, we have recently committed ourselves to a great deal of commitments, and we have also raised questions about where to take this money to meet all the guarantee obligations associated with the ESM and EFSF. The FTT has already been introduced by France since 1 August. We now want answers to our questions from the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U28	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. Please, Prime Minister, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: "What is the position of the Government of the Republic in introducing a tax on financial transactions? "The Government of the Republic adopted its positions on 17 November 2011 on the draft directive on a single financial transaction tax. The Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs supported the positions taken by the Government of the Republic on 28 November last year. In principle, the government supports the objectives of the draft to ensure the financial sustainability of the Member States, to enhance the stability of the financial system in the European Union and to avoid distortions of competition between different economic sectors. At the same time, the European Commission's draft remains unclear on how to achieve these objectives. In the view of the government, we have found that the impact of the FTT on the competitiveness of the European Union's economy and the financial sector, including its impact on the financing of the economy and its structure, as well as on long-term investments, should be further analysed. Consideration should be given to limiting the scope of the FTT to transactions in securities which are of the riskiest nature and therefore the greatest threat to financial stability. The scope of the FTT should exclude transactions in investment products aimed at long-term savings and the mitigation of demographic risks arising from ageing populations. In order to avoid distortions of competition between Member States, it is important that a financial transaction tax be introduced in all 27 Member States of the European Union, and its aim should also be to implement it at global level, at least in all G20 countries. European finance ministers have repeatedly discussed the possibilities of introducing a tax on financial transactions. On 22 June this year, the Ecofin Council reached the conclusion that the proposal for a financial transaction tax submitted by the Commission did not find the unanimous support of the Member States, which is known to be required in tax matters within the European Union. A clear opposition to the FTT has been expressed, for example, by the United Kingdom and Sweden. However, under Article 20 of the Treaty on European Union and Articles 326 to 334 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, enhanced cooperation is possible. If at least nine Member States are prepared to consider enhanced cooperation on a financial transaction tax, the Commission will present a new proposal for discussion. Since the only realistic scenario at the moment, i.e. the implementation of a financial transaction tax only in some Member States, is not fully in line with our current position, the government will discuss the issue of a financial transaction tax again in the near future. The second question: "The Bank of Estonia is legally obliged to advise the Government of the Republic on economic policy issues. What have the steps and recommendations of Eesti Pank regarding the introduction of a financial transaction tax? " The government attaches importance to Eesti Pank's opinion on economic policy and, above all, financial stability issues. The representative of Eesti Pank was involved in shaping the position regarding the financial transaction tax last year and will certainly continue to do so. The third question: "Until now, the Estonian state has generously provided taxpayers' money from the state budget to set up all kinds of so-called firewalls (EFSF, ESM, etc.). Could the FTT be an alternative to continued disbursements, which in turn would allow a more valuable allocation of budgetary money to address national bottlenecks? "The Commission estimates that the revenue from the FTT is EUR 57 billion, which is not comparable to the volume of EFSF or ESM. All the more so as the Commission expected the tax to apply in all 27 Member States. In addition, I would remind you that neither the guarantees given to EFSF nor the capital contribution from the ESM could have been used in any way to finance the normal costs of the state budget, but it may be useful to use a possible financial transaction tax directly to ensure the financial stability of the Member States, for example, to address bank problems in the future. However, this should be considered in conjunction with the Commission's recent initiative of 6 June 2012 according to which each Member State should set up a fund to manage banking crises, which would also be financed by banks depending on the size of their liabilities and the degree of risk involved, such as banking tax. The fourth question: "In general, banks also provide services from a business point of view, but they do not pay taxes on economic activity, so they are undertaxed in this sector. If the FTT is expected to generate EUR 57 billion in additional income in the EU as a whole, how much could this income share be on the Estonian scale if it were additional revenue in public finances? " Preliminary calculations offered about 10 million euros in Estonian tax revenue when a single financial transaction tax was introduced. The number of financial transactions in Estonia is very low compared to other Member States. The possible tax revenue does not necessarily mean additional collection into the Estonian state budget. The Commission's original proposal envisaged the use of a financial transaction tax as an own resource for the EU budget. Similarly, the use of a financial transaction tax to strengthen the financial system may be considered, as I mentioned in the answer to the previous question. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that a single system of financial transaction tax, following the Commission's original proposal, will not be implemented. However, the details of the proposal for a financial transaction tax to be introduced in the framework of possible enhanced cooperation are still under development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U30	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. There's a question for you too. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U31	Thank you, Prime Minister. You mentioned in your speech that the government will certainly discuss the financial transaction tax in the near future. If the Council of the European Union also approves the Commission's proposal, Member States will already have an obligation to adopt related laws next year. When could the government bring this issue to this Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U32	Thank you. When you listened carefully to my reply, I said that it is not possible to impose a single financial transaction tax on all 27 Member States of the European Union with today's knowledge, because several Member States are categorically opposed to the introduction of a financial transaction tax. I mentioned the UK and Sweden in my reply. Sweden is particularly important to us, because our finances are quite strongly linked to Swedish public finances through major investments in the Estonian economy. Thus, there will be no single financial transaction tax for the European Union as a whole on the basis of current knowledge. Closer cooperation between the Member States of the European Union is possible, and if there are at least nine Member States willing to cooperate, the European institutions can be used to promote this cooperation. These nine countries, they are gathering now, are forming, and they certainly already have a slightly different financial transaction tax initially planned for all 27 Member States of the European Union. What are the details? What should the new financial transaction tax look like? This is currently not clear to the possible initiative group or to all others. I hope that the European Commission will shortly present a new proposal to the Member States of the European Union to work more closely together on a financial transaction tax. I'm sure you have a question as to why the Swedes object. The Swedes have never practiced a tax on financial transactions, and the effect of introducing this tax was not pleasant for Sweden as a financial centre. Financial transactions simply moved away from Sweden. The tax was introduced in several parts. First, large stock transactions left Sweden, then a tax was imposed on bonds, and also bond transactions were no longer made in Sweden. Perhaps those who have ever examined the FTT will find that the introduction of such a tax is ideally best when it is global. A country which, on its own, imposes such a tax would most likely lose a large part of its market share in the sector concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U33	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Maybe I missed the ears, but I didn't remember how much extra tax revenue could hypothetically be collected in the Estonian state budget if such a tax was introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U35	Thank you. I named this number in my report, and it could be in the order of EUR 10 million. This coercive way of speaking is quite appropriate given the Swedish experience, because there are countries that have been hoped for additional revenue, but in practice no additional revenue has been received, transactions have moved away, of course no taxes have been received. On the contrary, the introduction of the tax has damaged the economy. This subject is not such a matter of brave initiative. It needs a very thorough analysis. While a good successor mentioned earlier that 66% of people in Europe support the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, this proportion is more or less in line with the share of countries where taxpayers' money was used to save commercial banks during the global financial crisis. There are only eight Member States in the European Union where, during the crisis, taxpayers' money did not have to be used to save commercial banks. And, of course, in those countries where taxpayers' money was used to save banking to a very considerable extent, the hatred of bankers is much greater than in those countries where banks acted responsibly both in the period prior to the crisis and during the crisis. For many, it seems to be somewhat unfamiliar with the fact that there is no such thing as this fat, full - fed cigar-pop banker who should be punished. In principle, all taxes are in this way, including in the banking sector, that in the end consumers will pay this tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U36	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. No more questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? I'll call in my colleague, Inara Luigas, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U37	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I firmly believe that the consumer should not pay any more taxes, nor should he pay off all these high costs caused by the crisis. At the same time, I am very grateful to the Prime Minister for explaining to us in this Chamber. The reason we put forward this question was precisely because a great deal has been said about the tax on financial transactions at the level of the European institutions. In Estonia, this issue is in the background; the media could also deal with it more. There was a time when we asked in this Chamber whether there was a financial crisis in Europe, whether Europe was at the mercy of an economic crisis. The Prime Minister said there's no crisis. Now we, too, should pay more attention here to the issues that are currently being discussed by the European institutions. When it comes to a tax on financial transactions, there really should be no panic about the fact that the tax on financial transactions is ultimately paid by the taxpayer, or the consumer of services. Rather, it should come from the banks' own pockets, in other words, the banks should not afford to charge a fee such as Värska's memmell, who sells the cow and if he wants to put the money he has received in the bank, he will have to pay a higher fee if he moves that amount. At the same time, we must be careful that if we give the banks money with one hand, then we will ask for the money back. I have a proposal for the Prime Minister that the government discuss these issues, as well as the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, who has done a good commission and has dealt with many critical and important issues. This issue could be put on the agenda of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the near future so that it can be discussed before we start making these decisions. Indeed, there is a big difference between whether the FTT is paid by ordinary consumers of services or by so-called speculators who make transactions several times a day. These services have already benefited from concessions, these services have not been subject to VAT. The wrong thing to say is that the Estonian state does not need additional money in the state budget. We must therefore take a very intelligent, very cautious approach to the issue of a tax on financial transactions, discuss it in this Chamber and make fair and good decisions from the point of view of the taxpayer. Thank you to the Prime Minister. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U38	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. The Prime Minister would also like to participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I would ask you in future to put the Prime Minister's statements in a specific context of time. We all remember perfectly how almost every person in Estonia tried to be an economic analyst and anticipate when the financial or economic crisis would come. After all, everyone remembered from the school textbook that the free market economy was developing cyclically, with each rise followed by a decline. I am sure that the people who spoke at the end of 2007 about the deepest crisis that hit Estonia after World War II did not have any understanding of the economy. They simply tried to be oracles, fortune - tellers, whose prophecy will come true. In 2007, as you know, we had no crisis whatsoever. In financial and economic terms, 2007 was certainly one of the best in Estonia. In 2007, we put 6 billion kroons into government reserves. If this is a crisis, this is the crisis I want to live in! Everyone would like to live in a crisis where the surplus would be 3% of gross domestic product. Unemployment decreased. We would all like to live in a crisis where unemployment would be 4%. So when making assessments, you always have to look at the time when some statements have been made. Now for a tax on financial transactions. The option proposed by the European Commission to 27 countries of the European Union was also not intended to tax transactions between citizens and transactions between ordinary companies. About 85% of transactions between financial institutions would have been taxed. But, as we know, these institutions ultimately serve at the expense of ordinary consumers. So if someone is required to pay any higher tax money, it will probably find compensation and eventually the tax will still land on the shoulders of the ordinary consumer. The question is justice: should those who create the most instability create hedge funds themselves, or will the creation of hedge funds remain the responsibility of ordinary retail banking and retail banking customers? They have hedge funds currently in place and their volume is quite considerable. Our banking has acted responsibly in the crisis, unfortunately this cannot be said of all the countries of the European Union. If the FTT finds support in most countries of the European Union, I personally consider it appropriate to introduce this tax in Estonia. However, if there is little support for it and if Sweden does not support it at all, then it should be considered very seriously whether it would be appropriate to introduce such a tax in Estonia. I have already said that we would hope to obtain a maximum of EUR 10 million from this tax, but the reality, as the example we have just presented, can lead to no euro coming, only damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U40	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U41	Now it is time to sign up for a speech in a free microphone, which can be done after my hammer hit. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a very important day for us. There have been two very important speeches in this Chamber, and I have to admit that I think it was a great deal to think about both speeches. When starting with the President's speech, he spoke for a very long time about the ESM and praised the Riigikogu for its decisions on the ESM. However, I am completely divided in this sense because when I moved around Estonia, including Saare County, as a member of the Riigikogu, I was able to take it very seriously for the fact that the Riigikogu has made such decisions. For me, the question is, where is the truth? Is it what the President praises and the people launders or what the people praises and the President casts? What are we supposed to do? That is, in my opinion, the question of the internal decision of a member of the Riigikogu. Sometimes it is very difficult and difficult to make a decision. The speech of the President of the Riigikogu was a very big surprise to me. This was a completely new quality speech, in which members of the Riigikogu as well as ministers were called to order, and they were advised to act according to their position. Big bow for it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-10_U43	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4:43 p.m.
