ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister and other members of the government! We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U2	President of the Republic s. By decision No 192 of 10 December 2010, Mr Taavi Rõivas was appointed Minister for Social Affairs. First of all, we will listen to the oath of Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U3	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U4	Dear colleagues, it is now possible to hand over drafts and inquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Let's go to the messages. Due to the release of a member of the Government of Kristen Michal and the restoration of the powers of his member of the Riigikogu on 11 December 2012, the mandate of the member of the Riigikogu Terje Trei expired on 10 December. On Wednesday 12 December, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. Seventy-five parliamentarians have been registered as present, and 26 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of Bill 309 of the Act amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! By way of introduction: I very much hope that the cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Riigikogu will be as good as it has been in previous years when I was Minister of Justice. But I am pleased that on the first official working day, I have the honour to introduce to you Bill No 309, entitled 'A bill to amend the Code of Enforcement and the Law of the bailiff'. As a tradition, I am pleased to say, as Minister of Justice, that this is a very good draft. First of all, a little bit of numbers. On the basis of a consolidated report on statistics on the activities of bailiffs, 245 auctions of movable property and 3696 auctions of immovable property were carried out between 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011. These statistics also contain duplicate offers. If you look at the main purpose of the draft, it is to complete and amend the Code of Enforcement Procedure in such a way as to enable electronic tenders to be carried out in the auction environment created by the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators. Hopefully, this will contribute to the activation of the sale of property. The bailiffs will, as a rule, start selling the frozen assets by electronic auction and the creation of an electronic auction environment has revealed the need to amend the current auction regulation. The main changes to the Code of Enforcement concern the registration of the auction and the payment of the deposit and the purchase price, the extension of the electronic auction, the automatic termination of the auction after a certain period of time, as well as the publication of the auction announcements in the local newspaper. Among other things, the draft extends the time limit for the assignment of the buyer's rights, provides for the possibility of a deferral of the auction, the transfer of the deposit to the common section of the budget of the Chamber, the right of the debtor to recover from the original buyer the difference between the price offered by the original buyer and the price offered by the re-nomination. The draft also provides for the regulation of the suspension of auctions in the event of a technical failure. In order to participate in the e-auction, you must register yourself and pay a security deposit within the registration period, which the bailiff can ask for in case of sale of both movable and immovable property. The guarantee is primarily intended to discipline the auction participants. By 1 January 2016 at the latest, both the deposit and the purchase price shall be payable using the immediate payment method offered by the credit institution. One important change is the introduction of a simplified procedure for the sale of small value movables. The bailiff may subsequently, under simplified procedures, sell movable goods of a value not exceeding EUR 100. By 1 January 2016 at the latest, it shall be possible to register in the auction environment for small value movable property at the time of the auction, as payment through the bank link will immediately receive the deposit in the settlement account of the bailiff, which will allow automatic registration for the auction. Participation in an auction without pre-registration is expected to stimulate the sale of movable property. The longer end of the e-Auction will allow the best price to be achieved, as the active offer will take place at the end of the auction. The draft also provides for a definite end to the e-auction so that those who participate in the auction with the intention of thwarting it cannot continue to bid. So much for the auction environment. A little bit of the other changes in the bill. The amendments to the Law on bailiffs and the Law on Bankruptcy Administrators will increase the number of members of the Court's Examination Committee and provide for the appointment of alternates in order to enable the Court's Examination Board to function better and the work to stop unduly. It also eliminates inequalities in the payment of membership fees and in the examination of bailiffs. According to the draft law, a member of the Chamber acting as both bailiff and insolvency practitioner must pay the membership fee both to the Board of Appeal and to the Chamber of Professionals. The draft also provides that there must be two bailiffs and two insolvency practitioners in the examination committee and that alternates may be appointed to the main members. However, the major change concerns the transmission of public claims to the Chamber, which is currently carried out by e-mail. Under the leadership of the Chamber and in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, a new information system is being developed for the transmission of public claims to bailiffs and distribution to bailiffs. This is necessary to ensure the automation, transparency and traceability of the allocation of public claims, to obtain correct statistics on the allocation of public claims and to provide additional opportunities for interaction between the claimant and the bailiff. Through this information system, those who collect must start submitting their claims to the Chamber as from 1 January 2014. Of course, the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic support the procedural decisions made by the Legal Affairs Committee and we hope that the draft will be approved quickly in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U7	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. First question please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U8	Dear waitress, We already know from the bill that it is possible for the filler to choose the auction environment to organise its auction, with each of them having this possibility regardless of the others. Anyone can choose their environment. However, in the interests of better transparency, in order to make the overall picture clearer, would it not be better for everyone to work in a single e-environment? Then the information would be more accessible and transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U9	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U10	It would be good if all bailiffs and insolvency practitioners used the same environment. This legislative option now creates prerequisites. But as you said, the fulfiller has the right to choose the environment in which he will publish the ad, and it will certainly remain. After all, the complexity of the procedures and, in some cases, the feasibility of the procedures must be taken into account, which is why bailiffs must be able to choose. Ideally, of course, it would be good and easy if everything were in one place, but I would not like to restrict the possibilities for fillingrs to choose the most suitable sales environment for themselves according to the appropriateness of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U11	Mr. Minister! The creation and development of an electronic auction environment is carried out by the Law Enforcement Officers and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators, but it was not quite clear to me when I read the explanatory memorandum who would be managing the electronic auction environment to be created. Is it given to a private company? I didn't quite understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U12	We can go over this together. I haven't been able to get my shit together yet, but I realized that the same house will be the manager. They have made these developments, and they will also manage this environment in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U13	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U14	Mr. Minister! Congratulations on your new job. Since we had another minister in the Commission at that time, I would like to ask you the following. It appears from the explanatory memorandum that the persons participate anonymously in the auction platform set up by the Chamber. The participants in the e-auction will only see the final offer. But why do we even need such a private auction?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U15	That makes perfect sense. Offers shall be made anonymously in order to avoid each other being affected. If any movable or immovable property is put up for sale, the aim is to achieve the maximum price. The maximum price can only be achieved if the tenderers do not know each other's identity and do not go to a 'free' conversation with each other in order to influence the price offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U16	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U17	Good minister! The bill states that the deposit may also be paid in cash if the amount of the deposit does not exceed EUR 640. EUR 640 is not a round amount; then the amounts will be EUR 1000 and EUR 100. Is this about converting crowns? Perhaps it makes sense to think about this amount, perhaps to set at EUR 500 or 1000?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U18	I believe that it would make sense for the Committee on Legal Affairs to put this proposal on the table. It's rather a technical change. If this is a matter of excessive accuracy of conversion, we do not have any major objections.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the buzzing in the hall has grown strong. Let's listen to the Minister! Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U20	Dear Minister, I don't know if it's appropriate, but I'd still like to be more specific. These changes, which come under this law, will they also change the situation for participants? I know that in border regions not everyone can participate in auctions and own real estate, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U21	They are not directly linked. Everything concerning the possession of real estate law is governed by other laws. Auctioning has nothing to do with this. The way the state of Estonia sells its assets or bailiffs sell someone else's assets is separate from the way ownership is regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U22	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U23	Mr. Minister! I read in this bill that there are options to postpone the auctions. But I don't really know why I need to postpone the auction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U24	In order to do so, the entire Code of Enforcement Procedure must be carried out and not just read these legislative amendments. The Code of Enforcement governs how the auctions are conducted and how they can be postponed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U25	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U26	Minister, thank you very much. I read in the explanatory memorandum that a lot is being auctioned without any real suggestion to buy things, but the letter sent to the Riigikogu by the Auction Order of the Company states that they do not have a lot of such offers in practice. I wonder why bailiffs have this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U27	It's hard to judge! The estimates are different and certainly different from the perception of what is a lot. The aim is for the auctions to be carried out to be clearly regulated in the legal area. The draft has in many ways been drawn up in cooperation with bailiffs, and the aim is that the activities they carry out, which seem reasonable, should be dealt with in a regulated and hitherto legal area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U28	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U29	Dear Minister, In the referral to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the companies engaged in the online auction point out that this bill restricts the activities of entrepreneurs in Estonia. The draft is overly detailed and therefore directly restricts innovation in this area. How do you comment on this claim?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U30	In the case of preliminary requests, the different categories of stakeholders still have different opinions. However, the Ministry of Justice has drawn up this draft in cooperation with bailiffs and insolvency practitioners and has found that such a solution should be optimal. Of course, overregulation will never make sense, but given the complexity of enforcement procedures, the abundance of nuances, I believe that this draft is almost optimal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U31	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U32	Mr. Minister! I don't know if I have to congratulate you on the new place, but that's the way it turned. Of course, I haven't given up on seeing you as Prime Minister, but it's okay, a long life ahead of me. The question, however, is as follows. Why is it important to set a deposit requirement at auction? This same Auction Order OÜ has claimed that it is the deposit claim that drives potential buyers away and that only old fish are involved, who are well aware of the matter and who have the deposit to pay. Why is it not possible to auction without a deposit? Is it feared that then absolutely all of Delfi's commentators will come along and squander the matter? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U33	I believe that, as Minister of Justice, I will also be able to hold debates with you in this great hall. There are no problems, our communication will definitely continue. Now, if you come to your question, I believe a reasonable deposit is necessary. I will bring the parallel of my former rule. When authorising pharmacies to operate, we see hundreds of applications in the form of 'auction' or 'auction' lots without a deposit. In order to discipline tenderers to have an interest in buying property, immovable property or movable property in order to be able to limit the number of participants in the auction in this respect, the deposit is reasonable. I have an example of another area where, without the deposit, we are in a position where an indisputable number of bidders take part in the auction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U34	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U35	Tell me, please, how have the bailiffs themselves assessed: have the problems they have pointed out been solved by the bill? And what about the concerns of the auctioneers? As far as they were aware, they were present and presented a letter with complaints.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U36	If you make a draft explanatory statement or look at the coordination table, it will be nice to see all the calculations of the proposals and also the reasons why the proposal has been or has not been taken into account in one or the other case. Most of the House's proposals, when I look at them here in a row in the coordination table, are taken into account. Some have also been ignored, and then there is a thorough explanation for why. It's all nicely written. The proposals for a point-by-point revision would go a long way here, but the comments taken into account or not by bailiffs can still be examined in the Committee on Legal Affairs if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U37	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U38	Minister, thank you very much. A number of improvements have now been made to this Code of Enforcement Procedure. What's the reason? Has the amount of property that will be removed during the trial increased so much that the Code must be supplemented and new rules and new conditions introduced? I know a lot of apartments are being taken away from indebted people right now. Is that one of the reasons why these procedures have simply come up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U39	No, that's definitely not the reason. Rather, if you look at current practice, it is clear that the existing regulation of e-auction needs to be improved. That's the main reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U40	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U41	Honourable Minister of Justice! For my part, congratulations to you on your new profession. My question is as follows. The draft law states that if the offer was made without the actual intention of buying, the purchase price would not be paid back to the buyer and the person would not be able to participate in the new auction. But if the auction takes place in another online environment, he has a chance to participate again. How have you planned to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U42	This is, of course, possible in theory and, as we know, it is always possible to participate in the auction in Estonia through a legal person or another person or whatever. If someone wants to cheat, preventing it cannot be the purpose of legal corrections for law-abiding buyers. We also see in other areas of life that if someone wants to cheat, for example, not pay taxes or come to auction and cheat, then they must be dealt with under other laws. This legislative amendment seeks to regulate the state of affairs at least in such a way that, if a person knowingly comes to raise the price and fails to pay, he must take account of the loss of the deposit. On the one hand, it keeps speculators away, but on the other hand, if the speculator still reaches a successful end result for himself, he will lose the deposit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U43	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U44	Dear Minister, It is as if we are discussing Estonian politics more generally. Two keywords run through all the time: money and cheating. You have just said that without the deposit, an unreasonable number of bidders should be auctioned. Isn't that the goal of a single auction to have as many bidders as possible to get the highest possible price? In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, I read that there is a practical need to establish the right to grant a deposit. Without the right to grant the deposit, the bailiff will not be able to contain the persons who participate in the auction with the wish to thwart it. Is it not the desire to conduct an auction in a small circle of participants?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U45	Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U46	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U47	Good luck on my part in this ministry! I ask, however, about the cost of implementing the law. It has been said that no additional costs are incurred directly by the State and the parties to the proceedings, but here is a list of the costs borne by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Chamber concerned and the Ministry of Justice. Am I right to understand that these are one-off costs and fixed costs to the State are not involved in the implementation of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U48	As far as I am concerned, all expenditure relating to legislative changes is either included in the state budget or the House has included them in its own expenditure. The House has already spent a lot of money on this bill, so in that sense I do not see any money problem that would hinder its adoption.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U49	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U50	Congratulations, Minister. With regard to the work of bailiffs, I would not like to ask about the subject of this draft. But when you talk to the presidents of the housing associations, they don't exactly relate to positive emotions with the term bailiff. Everyone's talking about their work too slow. We've been talking here, too, about the trial going on for years. We took those days off. Can you promise the presidents of the housing associations that the relatively small amounts that bailiffs would have to collect on the basis of court judgments will be more quickly collected to improve the work of bailiffs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U51	Of course, each bailiff must rely primarily on the law and the time limits laid down in the law. These time limits laid down by law are for this hall to decide. But, of course, we must also take into account the capacity of human resources and what I have already talked about today: the complexity of the enforcement procedure. Enforcement is a very complicated procedure, and there are often obstacles that may delay the process. In this sense, the whole procedure has a negative character. Since the presidents of housing associations do not have any positive emotions in this regard, it is natural. Each enforcement procedure means that something goes into execution, something is taken away from someone or something is placed on forced sales, whatever. But the message is that the law must be respected by bailiffs and insolvency practitioners, there must be no transition from the time limits laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U52	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U53	Dear Minister, I'm so sorry you left the Ministry of Social Affairs, but that's why. Here's the question. I didn't read out of this bill where the bailiff decides whether he's using the e-auction or can sell the property the way he did before. It's probably in here somewhere, but I couldn't find it. What does a bailiff do when he makes his choice? E-Auction is probably better because then you can get a higher price, but I think there's another way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U54	The bailiff has legal options to choose the type of proceedings, and of course he must choose the most appropriate method. If it's an e-auction in a particular environment, it'll probably pick it. If he wants to choose another way of selling, it is strictly regulated by law. According to the law, it must choose the type of proceedings and, consequently, carry out its own acts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U55	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U56	Minister of Justice! A lot of strength in the new job, maybe your nerves can rest more now! I'm sure during the night you've been able to read the bill on the Code of Enforcement Procedure, after all, you knew you'd come to introduce it to us today. Since I was able to read it myself, I am asking a little bit more, not directly, about the auction environment and the changes that concern it. What is the responsibility of bailiffs now? In the case of the sale of movable property, the bailiff has been prescribed what movable property he may put on sale in an auction environment, i.e., he may not take away from the debtor or what kind of property he may not. Some property must be left to the family. If the bailiff is wrong and puts the last type of asset on sale in the auction environment, what is his responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U57	If you are trying to answer that question, it would indeed be wise to make a law so that you do not err in responsibility, both in sums and in other respects. I think we both recognise that, when the Code of Enforcement Procedure was adopted at the time, one of the most serious issues of discussion was the question of responsibility both in the preparation of the draft and in the subsequent proceedings. Whatever law we are talking about, especially when it comes to the fundamental rights of people, it is important to bear in mind the so-called minimum necessary guarantee that must remain the property of a person after enforcement proceedings. I do not think that we should literally go through this text right now. I have the law on me, but it wouldn't make much sense for a verbatim. I believe that the disputes that were held in the past were held in a clear knowledge of where there is a reasonable limit to responsibility. If anyone wants to increase this responsibility, there is always an opportunity to propose. However, my personal view is that an increase in punishment or responsibility does not necessarily mean that the work will be done more effectively. Work must always be done according to your conscience and by law, in this sense, all bailiffs have the same responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U58	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U59	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a technical question to clarify. Suppose some kind of thing is put up for sale somewhere in the domain,. kz, for example, means Kazakhstan. The objective is certain: the property will be put up for sale in this environment, and there will be a particular person who will do so in agreement with it. And this property is going to be sold and sold with the minimum number of participants. I have not been very familiar with this draft and I therefore ask: is the choice of e-environment limited to a domain. Or is it completely free? Can an auction be held all over the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U60	Here we should read once again the Code of Enforcement Procedure, but I understand that it is very clearly regulated what the type of enforcement proceedings can be and what the environment in which the auction is organised will be. I should find this place quickly now, but we can do it later. Let's do the law of the enforcement procedure for a moment, it's clear where the auction can be held.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U61	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U62	Good minister! I hope that you have already received information on how many bailiffs have encountered obstacles to the selection of the auction environment for the sale of movable property or other forms of sale. What is possible, for example, in a situation involving a non-married family, a partnership or a household? This is certainly a familiar situation with your previous field of work if people are not directly related, but may be in the same household.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U63	According to the 2011 statistics, 245 movable items have been auctioned, as I said at the beginning. If we look at the total number of these movable items and think that this is a whole year's figure, it is a relatively small number. So it can be assumed that there have been no very serious problems with the sale of movable items. The executors themselves will certainly be able to give examples of individual marks, but if you look at the overall picture, 245 movable items will not be very much over a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U64	Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U65	Good minister! I'm curious as to whether the bailiffs should be protected. What is the law more broadly in this sense? We sympathize with those whose property is sold, but bailiffs are some of the most hated people, just like parking controllers and tax officials, who many hate, mostly for no reason. Can't the law protect them more? I am not talking about free milk distribution, but, for example, I know that in some countries the contact details of tax officials are not available and they can live their private lives normally. Has such a problem been observed in Estonia and, if so, could we do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U66	As I said to one earlier question: everything that concerns enforcement is, of course, a negative undertone. Anyone who takes something away from a person or makes a fine is bad for that person, regardless of the procedure. The law provides for different officials, whether they are bailiffs or other practitioners, tax or customs officials or whoever, various guarantees and also guarantees, what enforcement fees are and what is the most basic, or salary, in relation to one or the other post. Together, these wage regulations and social guarantees must ensure that these people are able to comply with the law freely and not affected. Hopefully, this will be guaranteed in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U67	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U68	Good minister! I must admit that Aadu is probably right: these are not very loved people. But I was looking in the bill to see if it had any negative effects on the normal person. Did I get it right that the possibility of an electronic auction could lead to more things being seized that were not previously taken away because it is now easy to sell them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U69	I don't see the effect. The paragraphs which so far regulated the execution of the enforcement procedure are the same. The e-auction only gives an additional opportunity to the executioner, and rather it is positive. The range of potential buyers is expanding, and fullers can do their job better and in a clearer legal order.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U70	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U71	Thank you! Mr. Minister, good luck in your new job. I want to ask you about the bailiff. It has come from the Russian terminology'sudjebny ispolnitel' of the Soviet era and is rooted in Estonia. At the same time, today, the word 'executor' suggests that this official is somehow involved in the court and acts under the auspices of the court. Have you thought that perhaps it would be appropriate and reasonable to delete the first part of this word? After all, these are private individuals who execute decisions, such as parking tickets, who do not act as court parking officers or something like that. In short, do you think that this title needs to be adjusted?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U72	A longer legal philosophy dispute could be initiated on this subject. Indeed, when a judgment has been handed down and someone goes to execute it, is he a bailiff? And if someone goes to implement a civil claim, like you, to collect a parking ticket, then he's just a executive? Such legal philosophic debates could, of course, be held, and Parliament could set an example here, but I believe that from the point of view of legal certainty and people's legal awareness, the word 'executor' may be better disciplined than just 'executor'. Which doesn't mean I'm not open to discussion about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U73	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I invite the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Marko Pomerants, to be co-presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U74	President-in-Office of the Council. Good guys in the hall! Mikhail Stalnukhin has been able to walk away in the meantime, but I will first answer his question concerning territorial subordination in enforcement proceedings. This is covered by § 4 of the Code of Enforcement Procedure, which states that the bailiff does enforcement activities only on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. A foreign enforcement procedure shall be governed by the law of the country in which the enforcement procedure takes place. In order to obtain the information necessary for filling in the enforcement document in a foreign country, the person has the right to contact the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Estonia. And if you take the state of Estonia more narrowly, the enforcement document will be completed by the bailiff whose area of work is the property of the debtor. It is such a general and simplified rule. But now to the Commission's discussions. For the first time in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the draft 309 was presented on 12 November this year and, of course, the draft was presented to us by Minister of Justice Kristen Michal, who was present with Mr Hettel Varik, Head of the Service for Supervision and Legal Service. The fresh Minister of Justice gathered the contents of the draft beautifully here today. As far as the content is concerned, we also had a debate on 3 December in the context of the procedure of this bill, to which we had invited Sven Tirusson, representative of Auction Order OÜ. The reason was that Auction Order OÜ had sent us various comments concerning the holding of an auction in an electronic environment. Hettel Varik and Elen Kraavik, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, as well as Mati Kadak, vice-president of the Board of Directors of the Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators and member of the Board of Directors of the Tribunal, and Aare Kruuser, a lawyer, were also present in the committee to provide explanations. To sum up this debate, the difference between the auction environments already in use and the auction environment in question is, in a philosophical sense, as follows. If someone, such as Eldar Efendiev, wants to sell his car from 1976 or 1986, I don't know if he has one, but just as an example, he has the will to dispose of the car and he's just interested in one thing: that he gets the best price possible. He wants to sell the car. In enforcement proceedings, it must be borne in mind that a person whose property is transferred may not be most cooperative for various reasons. The procedures must be clear, the participants must be verifiable, etc. And that is precisely because complaints may be made about different activities. Mailis Reps asked if there was any liability procedure. The seventh part of the Code of Enforcement Procedure states that an appeal may be brought against an act of a bailiff, as the case may be, pending an appeal. That's the fundamental difference. As the fresh Minister mentioned, it is not excluded that there will still be auction environments in Estonia that meet the requirements that the Code of Enforcement Procedure now receives. Private operators are also certainly able to go along with them and adapt their auction environments to this. There are certainly debates in this bill. There are back-dates in place, for example, for payment of the deposit via a bank link. It can be said that banks already offer these services, but it is such a rear-end term and, if it can be implemented earlier in some environment, it must be done. There's no problem. As far as further procedural decisions are concerned, since we have come quite close to the end of the year, the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to stop reading the draft and set the deadline for the amendments s. a 13 December, so that we can discuss the amendments when they are received at Thursday's meeting and carry out the second and third readings of the draft next week. If you look at the entry into force provisions, although the draft states that this law should enter into force on 1 January 2013, we will certainly make an amendment here as a Commission proposal so that the draft can enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. The President will then have time to look at and react to the law adopted by the Riigikogu. During the discussion with the Auction Order OÜ, we had a common understanding that we will probably reduce the auction interval to one minute instead of the two minutes proposed in the draft law. In the case of auctions, the end will be longer anyway. Once this is done, the draft should be eligible for adoption as a law. But if there are amendments, we will certainly discuss them, and you will know their fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U75	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U76	Good chairman of the committee! My question concerns the terminology raised by Rait Maruse. So you're going to launch a debate on whether it's going to be the bailiff or whether it's going to be the bailiff? Which one's gonna imponish you more? In my opinion, 'the bailiff' is clearer. Are you going to discuss this in committee, as the Minister suggested?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U77	Thanks! What is very important is that the fulfiller is not insatiable, in other words, that his fees are reasonable. He must be able to cover his expenses, but the fee must not be too high. After all, this is an amount that the debtor will eventually have to pay off. But we are not going to discuss in this particular draft whether a different term should be introduced instead of a bailiff. There's no need for that. I agree with you that 'defendant of the court' quite well conveys the content of the Office, because in many cases the judgment is the basis for the opening of enforcement proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U78	Please, Margus Hanson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U79	The bill states that if the auction environment pays by means of an immediate payment method, the purchase price shall be deemed to have been paid to the bailiff for crediting the central account of the Chamber to the extent of the purchase price. Does this mean that this money does not actually have to be paid into the house account? Crediting means someone's gonna transfer the money. These are two different moments of time, however.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U80	But it is assumed that this same crediting is a sufficient fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U81	Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U82	Good colleague! I'm coming back to a subject related to the quality of bailiffs. I will be honest with you that we should implement a system of evaluation of bailiffs Unfortunately, there is no system. Perhaps, if there are big things, thousands of euros involved, this process will go faster, but as far as the recovery of housing companies' money from debtors, where relatively small amounts are involved, it will go too slowly. Do you think we have a system that allows us to assess the quality of bailiffs' work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U83	Thanks! I am not sure that such a system exists. The only feedback mechanism is that if bailiffs carry out some sort of procedure, either illegally or in a way that someone is filing a complaint, the processing of these complaints is one way to improve their work a little. I assume that if the relevant public claims are distributed more evenly, this means that bailiffs will be able to deal with things with different perspectives and also to recover smaller debts. But yes, I'm not aware that bailiffs have some kind of non-formal rating system the way top lawyers do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U84	No further questions. Thank you very much, Marko Pomerants. We're going to negotiate. As a representative of the Peeter Võsa Central Party Group, I would like to ask for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs is on the table before us. Such a law is probably urgently needed when such a bill is already on the table before us, but it is as bad as it has been with many other drafts recently. Let us be honest, this too is hurriedly prepared and has arrived on this table as offering incomplete solutions. The potential problems have not been solved and the disagreements between the various stakeholders have not been resolved in any way. Some things, however, are also certain and inevitable in this bill: the debtor, whose assets have already been taken by force by bailiffs, but who has been legally removed and auctioned, has no further say in this matter. Two parties remain: bailiffs and auctioneers. One is the needful but hated characters of society, and the other are entrepreneurs who aim to make a lot of money in their business and develop this field as much as possible in order to make even more money. But do the so-called bailiffs live by the grace of God and they don't need money? You know, it is, and sometimes it gets the impression that they need more money than the others. Look at the level of the fees they have been given and the frequent rigidity of their administration, perhaps even inhumane in some cases! It was said to be a little clearer about what we are dealing with in the light of the bill 309. Passing keywords throughout the debate have been money and fraud. Who's holding the auction? What kind of money and a circle of people? Nobody's gonna cheat on anybody, is it? These have been key issues. Similar discussions were held in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Auction organizers and bailiffs do not agree on many points, and no time has actually been spent to find this consensus, because it is urgent. Why is it urgent? I don't get it! It seems that the rush is to get the money into the right pocket quickly, and no one can cheat on the owner of the pocket where the money goes. That is what I believe has been the main course and point of this debate. What do you want to say in conclusion? The bailiff, as Mr Rait Maruse rightly pointed out, is not really a bailiff. He's a simple fulfiller who participates just like the auctioneers in the fight for money. The question is, who organises auctions and how does the cream, which is left over from the costs of organising auctions, scrape itself? That is exactly how this bill should be handled just as calmly. Instead of this bill, I think we could talk about it here or reflect on how to organize the work that we now call it? Right, yeah, the bailiffs. In short, I have no objection to regulating the work area of the fillers, but this should not be done in this key, as is currently the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U86	Thank you. Any more calls? Please, Marko Pomerants, two minutes on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U87	Thank you. I can do with a shorter time. Just so you don't get the wrong impression, I would stress that property is still being sold to cover the debtor's obligations, not because things are over someone and they want to get rid of old things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U88	Thank you. Is there another wish for negotiation? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 309. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 309 amendments at 10 a.m. on 13 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U89	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 272 on Amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U90	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school, which is before you at first reading. The bill bears number 272. The aim of the Act is to ensure that students who speak other languages in their mother tongue have an excellent knowledge of Estonian without suffering from the student's knowledge of the subject. To this end, upper secondary schools in other languages must ensure that Estonian language learning is organised at a level that enables graduates to acquire the knowledge of the Estonian language at the B2 language level. In addition to the Estonian language, Estonian literature, social studies, music, Estonian history and human geography are taught compulsory in Estonian at the secondary school level. The aim of upper secondary school education is high-quality education and knowledge in all subjects corresponding to the national curriculum. In an upper secondary school where Estonian is not a language of study, the study of Estonian is compulsory so that the graduate can complete the B2 exam successfully. The Estonian language and subjects in Estonian must be taught to the extent and in such quality as to enable graduates to acquire higher education in Estonian or to successfully enter the labour market. In Estonian as a foreign language, it is not possible to teach other foreign languages, such as English, French, German, Spanish and Swedish. Several scientists have also proven that many students are not able to acquire natural and physical subjects in a foreign language at the level they are able to acquire in their native language. This is why, in 2002 and 2003, in cooperation with university lecturers and subject specialists, curricula were developed that strengthen the teaching of Estonian as a foreign language by providing students with language practice and vocabulary, enabling them to become a tool in organising their own and social life in the form of language skills. For example, it would be useful to teach communicative subjects in Estonian, where the language needed for everyday communication can be the most widely used. Calculation as percentages of compulsory subjects does not guarantee high-quality Estonian language learning organised uniformly at national level. Systematic and evenly organised at national level in Estonian as a foreign language, subject education in other language upper secondary schools ensures a level playing field through teachers' in-service training and nationally developed learning tools and provides national feedback and control. Especially talented students will continue to have the opportunity to study in Estonian-language upper secondary schools, and the decline in the number of students in Russian-language upper secondary schools shows this as a constant tendency. At the same time, it is worrying that in Estonian subjects are taught linguistically faultyly and subjectally bumpyly. This does not guarantee the knowledge of the Estonian language, nor does it guarantee knowledge of the subject. A uniform system at national level gives the schools confidence and the opportunity to find new teachers to give these subjects thanks to the national premium. Upon entry into force of this draft law, the school offers students, in addition to studying Estonian language, Estonian literature, social studies, music, Estonian history, human geography and entrepreneurship education in Estonian and, according to the course of study, in the upper secondary school level, optional courses in Estonian according to the possibilities of the school. This methodology is used, for example, by Tallinn's English College and Kadriorg German Upper Secondary School, where in addition to English and German lessons, some other subjects are taught in a foreign language. Of course, the level of the Estonian language of teachers must be checked nationally, as it must be perfect for students to have an excellent education. It also remains the responsibility of the state to ensure the corresponding textbooks, methodological advice and other teaching requirements. Without sufficient educational resources, teacher training and methodological advice, there may be a situation where many subjects seem to be taught in Estonian, but the language barrier may cause students to suffer from the knowledge of the subject. Until we are able to ensure systematic learning, teaching compulsory subjects in languages other than native language can have negative consequences. In this case, the main problem is the so-called ethnic ghettoisation: there will be a certain number of people who lack sufficient knowledge for further learning or finding a job and who are alienated from society, who are discouraged and who will subsequently need various subsidies from the state. Draft 272 consists of two sections, the first of which makes two amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. § 1 (1) of the Bill amends § 21 (3) of the Act, which provides for the obligation of a school with another language of instruction to ensure that the Estonian language is organised at a level that enables the graduates of the upper secondary school to acquire the knowledge of the Estonian language, as already stated, at the B2 language level. In addition to the study of Estonian, a school with other language of study offers compulsory Estonian literature, social education, music, Estonian history and human geography or entrepreneurship education in Estonian. In addition, the school offers optional courses in Estonian according to the course of study and opportunities. The current national upper secondary school curriculum lists compulsory subjects such as Estonian language and literature, foreign languages, mathematics, biology, geography, chemistry, physics, history, social studies, human studies, geography, music, art and physical education. In order to ensure that students' knowledge of the subject does not suffer from the deepening of Estonian language skills, other language schools are not obliged to teach more complex natural and physical subjects in Estonian, such as chemistry and physics, narrow and broad mathematics. Past experience has also shown that mathematics and science subjects are not the most suitable for teaching in foreign languages, especially because of their abstraction. Under the current legislation, schools must ensure that upper secondaryists are able to participate in the selected course of economic and entrepreneurship education. Schools need to find competent teachers, educational materials are produced in Estonian, it is reasonable that in upper secondary schools with other language of study, entrepreneurship education is provided in Estonian. In addition to compulsory subjects, schools have the opportunity to offer a wide range of optional courses and each school is guaranteed the possibility to offer optional courses in Estonian according to the possibilities and means of the school. European principles in the field of language learning are set out in the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages. The latter is a common basis for drawing up foreign language curricula, their guidelines, examination materials, textbooks and more across Europe. The Framework Document outlines the Council of Europe's language proficiency levels, according to which B2 language levels are representative of the individual user of the language. A B2 learner understands the core of complex abstract or specific texts and professional exchange on a specific subject, is able to have spontaneous and smooth conversations with a person to whom the language is the mother tongue, is able to create clear, detailed text on many subjects and explain his or her point of view, to consider the strengths and weaknesses of these positions. Thus, the B2 language level ensures that graduates of upper secondary school can continue their studies at an Estonian-language higher education institution or successfully enter the labour market. The Framework Document confirms that the objective of language education has now changed. The goal is no longer simply to separate one, two or even three languages and the native speaker of the language is no longer considered ideal. Instead, they try to develop human language baggage, wherever any linguistic ability has its place. This means that the choice of languages to be taught in educational institutions should be varied and students should be given the opportunity to develop their competence in some areas, based on several languages. As language learning is lifelong, it is important to develop the motivation, skills and confidence of young people to gain language experience outside of school. The tasks of educational institutions, examination centres and teachers are no longer limited to achieving a certain level of language proficiency for a certain period of time, although this is also undoubtedly important. As a result, the Council of Europe's language programmes in recent years have aimed precisely at creating language learning tools to promote multilingualism. § 1 (2) of the Bill complements the new paragraph 31 of § 82 of the Act, which guarantees schools or classes with other language of instruction, where subjects are studied in Estonian, subject teachers' fees, refresher training, counselling and additional teaching resources from the state budget. The Nationally Harmonised System ensures that schools have confidence, as well as the opportunity to find new teachers to give these subjects, so that students' knowledge of the subject does not suffer as a result of ensuring their proficiency in the Estonian language. In order to develop educational integration, the state budget already has money in place. § 2 of the draft law provides for the date of entry into force of the Act. The date of entry into force of the Act is scheduled for 1 January 2013. If the Riigikogu considers that it is necessary to clarify the draft, it is certainly possible to adapt it to the amendments. This draft allows students of secondary schools in other languages to have a very good knowledge of Estonian language, which will ensure a B2 language level at graduation. The national curriculum of the upper secondary school also says that the most important tasks of teaching Estonian language are to design language skills that enable Estonian society to cope independently and lay the foundations for lifelong learning. The graduating student's satisfactory learning result in Estonian as a second language is Level B2. 1, a well-educated student fills in part and a very good student completes all B2. 2 language proficiency level requirements. In addition, a well-educated student will be able to meet the following requirements of the C1 language proficiency level in part. The lessons focus primarily on interactive learning and the use of the language to be learned. Coupling and group work is implemented, supporting the development of communication and performance skills in Estonian using, for example, debates, referendums, research works, computer presentations, communication portals, blogs, etc. Through various activities, the teacher creates an opportunity to actively use Estonian outside the hour. The entry into force of the Act does not entail any additional costs for the state budget, as the state budget provides money for the development of educational integration. The 2012 state budget has also supported the implementation of bilingual education, including the preparation of teachers of Russian-language general education schools, the preparation of educational resources, the development of the learning environment and the transition to partial Estonian-language learning. Our proposal here is simply to approach more systematically. In conclusion, the purpose of this draft is one for us: to ensure good knowledge of the national language and to raise good citizens. The national curriculum of the upper secondary school states that, in a school or class with another language of study, the school with its curriculum guarantees at least 60% of the minimum amount of study allowed for the upper secondary school level. This arrangement has caused a great deal of tension among students in Russian-language schools, their parents and teachers, because it is feared that children's knowledge will suffer if they are to learn in the national language. If, in a pedagogical way, there is a peaceful rhythm of teaching in the national language, which provides students with good or very good knowledge of the language, while ensuring that their knowledge of the subject and the results of the state exams are not impaired, a calm pace can produce positive results. Our aim as a Riigikogu must be to deal with basic school and upper secondary school law on the basis of educational rather than political objectives. That is why we have proposed to you a draft that approaches the subject in substance. All the proposals in draft 272 come from the substantive needs of education, not from the opinions of one person or another. The proposals are based on studies carried out more than ten years ago, and therefore the substantive debate on this draft is well-founded in this Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U91	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U92	Thank you very much. Of course, this bill must also be viewed in the wider international context, even though it has been born here in Estonia. You referred to the relevant European framework document in your comprehensive presentation. All cases are, of course, unique, but knowing that you know quite well international practice, I ask you this. Is there anything similar in any other EU country? If so, can we draw conclusions as to how it has worked? This B2 language level is also a cross-cutting requirement in this framework document.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U93	Good questioner! As far as the European framework document is concerned, as I have already emphasised, the aim is not only to master the language as such, but to constantly improve language skills. The aim is to motivate young people to use the language in different environments. It is therefore very important that we do not make the mistake here in the Republic of Estonia that we only speak Estonian as a national language. A young person must be, whatever his nationality and whatever language he speaks at home, motivated to speak the official language. It must be motivated to use it in all kinds of environments, in different practical situations, whether in everyday life, in the labour market, in the service sector or elsewhere. It is possible to harmonise the skills of foreign languages and to compare the language skills of people in European countries. At the same time, it may also make us cautious, because it has given many young people much greater opportunities to move around: to learn elsewhere, to gain new experience, to work elsewhere, because language standards are easier to compare than before. As far as experience elsewhere is concerned, the neighbouring country Latvia is the most cited in this regard. You have certainly heard the leading officials of the Ministry of Education and Research point to examples from the Republic of Latvia as examples of a great success story. There, very quickly and very clearly from the top down was ordered to study in Latvian, and as a result, everyone is supposed to learn nicely in Latvian. At the same time, there are examples of Latvia, if desired, on the other hand. You can go to areas where more than 90% of the population is Russian-speaking, go to a school there and go there, allegedly, to a Latvian-speaking class. If you move around such a school for a while, you can be assured to the contrary. One thing is reality, the other is what's on the paper. They may not overlap. When I was in second office years ago, my impressions from the Republic of Latvia were quite different. As for the events that took place in Latvia ten years ago, when this order was given from the top down, our defence police kept an eye on what was happening in Latvia, and very much thanks to the Kapo Centres of Analysis, the Ministry of Education and Research developed its educational policy approach to language learning. The reasoning was very clear. Our Defence Police Analysis Centres proposed not to forcefully push forward, but to engage in dialogue with schools and specialists and to propose substantive proposals that would be acceptable to our schools and which parents would understand. It was stressed that national language learning should not be forced to do so, which could take away motivation. As I said, Latvia's experience, at least ten years ago, was very clearly the opposite for us. Those were mistakes we didn't want to repeat. Consequently, I can say that one of our greatest advances in dialogue with teachers and parents in Russian schools was the approach proposed in 2002 and 2003, which these schools also supported. The emphasis on national language was that certain subjects are studied in Estonian, but at the same time we wanted to rule out a drop in the quality of education in Russian school. We hoped to deprive parents of the fear that the results of the state exams would fall for this reason and, as a result, we did not have street riots and other actions regarding the desire to pass on Russian-language education in the same way. When you look at other countries, things are very different. In general, Europe makes a quite clear distinction as to whether they are new immigrants' languages or so-called indigenous minorities' languages. Most European countries offer huge opportunities to study in indigenous minority languages. We've got this a little crazy. Nor have we ratified framework conventions that would provide the basis for analysing our education system at this level, but it is clear that Russian has been widely used at least along the Peipsi border for a very long time. But I think that this analysis could be left to historians. As far as new immigrants are concerned, for example, in Germany, where a wide range of opportunities can be offered, there are huge differences in the education system depending on the region. In general, at the younger age level, efforts are made to ensure that the child understands what is being taught in particular, and at the older age levels, the curriculum is adapted as necessary. There are also quite individual approaches.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U94	Thank you very much. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Good Mailis! Estonian citizenship is not mandatory in the Republic of Estonia; you can live here with a residence permit. In the Republic of Estonia, entry into the labour market is not mandatory, no understanding of matters is mandatory and there are no compulsory languages that should be spoken on the street. I have no objection to the need to improve the teaching of the Estonian language and in any way to encourage people with other domestic languages to speak the Estonian language better. But is there no contradiction here that possession of the Estonian language at a certain level, taking an examination is mandatory, but it does not involve any other obligation in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U96	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, when we come to the responsibilities, both our constitution and international human rights documents introduce both rights and obligations. We have often interpreted human rights only on a rights-based basis, but there are, in fact, quite clearly related obligations that may even extend to restricting human rights. Is it an obligation to speak in a certain language in the Republic of Estonia? Yes, it is true that there are human rights that you can use any language in your family circle at home, you have freedom of conscience, you have many other freedoms, but in the Chamber of Riigikogu, for example, you must speak the language of the state unless you have agreed otherwise with the manager, for example in the case of foreign visitors. You have a duty to speak only in the official language of the court. With our laws, we have created a series of restrictions like this. I understand from your point of view that the aim was actually to ask what happens next when I learn that language. That is a very fundamental question. If we look at a number of studies that have been carried out in Estonia over the years and where our young people's attitudes, expectations and prospects for the future have been analysed, their attitudes, regardless of nationality and language, have clearly changed in recent years, especially during the crisis. Almost every other young person is considering the possibility of working or studying for shorter or longer periods outside Estonia. If you go to schools, this is not a study, but you can get a picture of it, then there is quite a tendency among seniors to continue studying for at least some time elsewhere. If we break up this trend according to our ethnicity, this desire will be even greater among young Russian-speaking people. The expectation and hope that they will be able to fully exploit their educational and personal potential in Estonia has significantly decreased from year to year in the last five years. This, unfortunately, results not only from the economic crisis, but also from a political stance. The constant emphasis on national differences, whether in our legislative decisions or in society at all, has led very many young people to see that they are not able to apply themselves sufficiently here. In the long term, this is certainly dangerous for Estonia, because if we look at the analyses that are constantly being carried out on the European labour market, Europe as a whole, despite the economic crisis, is undoubtedly talking about the shortage of skilled labour. It is increasingly said publicly that, in certain years' time, in relation to an ageing society, we will inevitably need to accept that third-country nationals who reach the European Union in increasing numbers will also find an opportunity to work here. An analysis of Europe's so-called 'non-legal immigrants' over the past two years alone shows that almost one in four immigrants who have arrived in the European Union illegally have, after some time, been able to legitimise themselves through their long-term work or by some other means. Or at least their children are born in Europe, they are likely to be married locally and cannot be expelled. This analysis was presented in the United Nations quite a few weeks ago by a representative of the refugee organisation who said that, in fact, the countries of the European Union must also understand that some of those people, for example, now living in very large refugee camps during the Syrian crisis, are certainly ready to go back to Syria, but quite a large part do not want to do so either. So if we look at the movement of migrants and the European approach to it, despite this attitude of the nation state, from time to time, there is a reality that the labour market is ready to accept more and more immigrants on a pan-European basis. Estonia cannot be an exception here in the long term. If, at the same time, we allow our own educated young people to go so easily - often the most talented and most active ones are ready to leave first - are we not at some point faced with a situation where we must be prepared to see a whole different cultural background here and people belonging to a different cultural space, perhaps with a different religious approach, and consider them our compatriots?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U97	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U98	Dear waitress, I have always been surprised by your position as a minister, and also in this draft, that it is precisely Estonian history that should teach Russian young people in Estonian. It is often said that Russian and Estonian young people have different perceptions of recent history. Therefore, history should teach them in the language they understand, what they understand, and not spend their history on language learning. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U99	Thank you, good questioner! That's a good question! This concerns very heated debates and discussions, which are being carried back to about ten years. When a decade ago we discussed and analysed what subjects we could teach in Estonian, there were some subjects where all parties agreed quite easily. This was the example of social education. I would remind you that this was the time when the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Interior were able to agree that the level of social education in schools and the state-run social education exam are sufficient to reconcile it with the citizenship exam. This was a very big change at the time and, as life has shown, it also gave a very strong impetus that young people began to apply for citizenship and participate more in society. The second topic, where quite gladly agreed, was music. Of course, in upper secondary school, it is not only about singing, but also about music history, say, giving a fairly broad cultural background. But the reason was clear. When we recall the last song festival, the choir level of the Russian-speaking schools was very good. There were many, as the Estonians generously spoke after the song festival, small children with Russian backgrounds who sang in the perfect Estonian language, which created such a mood. The subject was geography, and there was more debate about it. That's why human geography was proposed. Geography is a difficult subject, there is a great deal of specific vocabulary, but geography was proposed, at least at Tallinn University specialists initially proposed it precisely because they believe that it provides a vocabulary that can be very useful for young people in the wider public. Now history. History was proposed in 2002 as the most recent subject precisely because the approach to it really differs from school to school. But history has been one of the subjects in which politics comes to school most, not even as much in social studies as in history. We have made some quite important mistakes, to which Mr Glass, Mr Black and everyone else, for example, will be able to talk very thoroughly about this in the context of the University of Tartu. We have had many interesting but sad mistakes. One of them was when the Faculty of History tried for years to give graduates of other - language schools a separate opportunity to acquire history. The idea was that they would study history at the University of Tartu and then go back to Russian-speaking schools with the knowledge and understanding that they had received from the University of Tartu. Unfortunately, for various reasons, it was terminated at one point. Currently, most of the continuing training of Russian-language history teachers takes place outside Estonia. When the idea was proposed to teach the Estonian history course in Estonian, at least ten years ago it was proposed and I believe that this could be a competent proposal to this day, that it should be conducted in cooperation with Estonian schools, it would be like a travelling course that would move from Estonian schools to Russian schools in the form of a guest lecturer or co-teacher who would come and give this part of the total volume of the history course in Estonian. Do students understand this enough or not? At least ten years ago, when we analyzed this proposal, we found that since it is part of the whole course, the main teacher of history will have the task, if necessary, of doing some pre-pre-school training, for example, explaining terms. And, of course, they're not just ordinary teachers. We have stressed a common national approach here, a common refresher training and the preparation of teachers precisely because they must be teachers who, while teaching in Estonian, are able to explain the terms to young people, give additional explanations and, if necessary, talk about some things in Russian. So they certainly cannot be Estonian-speaking teachers alone. The offer of the history course was our aim to give the Ministry of Education today, the Minister of Education today and the former minister who now headed the Estonian National Museum the opportunity to see it on the national side and to exclude the political side in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U100	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U101	Thank you. Good Mailis, you mentioned that there is a European Framework of Reference for Languages, as well as the explanatory memorandum on the basis of foreign language curricula and their guidelines, examination materials, textbooks and everything else throughout Europe. Could you describe in more detail why these language levels differ from one another and why the B2 language level chosen in the draft will ensure success?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U102	Thank you, good questioner! If you look at the birth story of this draft as well as the feedback from language teachers in recent years and their continuing education in the subject matter, there is a clear expectation and hope, as expressed in our new Estonian language development plan 2011 just in 2017 so that our young people, more than half of young people, can reach C1 levels by 2017. At present, however, all documents, including these amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, have been based on a situation where our young people's objective has been B1. As I said, if they speak Estonian well, then level B1. 1, and if they're really good at it, it's B1. 2. So B1 is a reality today, and unfortunately not all young people have it either. This means that you still have to pass the exam and master the language well. Such a very distant goal, and not only in the case of the knowledge of Estonian as a national language, is to reach the C1 level. We could certainly have more ambitious or faster plans, but unfortunately the reality does not allow a faster transition to C1, and, as I said, according to the Estonian language development plan, more than half of young people will not be able to achieve this result until 2017. The second question in the framework document is what B1 actually gives. B1 gives young people these opportunities, such language skills and the ability to enter the labour market, is able to continue learning and, most importantly, is able to communicate well in that language, to be a daily user of the language in the service sector and in the public sector, to acquire information in that language, to be in this language environment, for example through information channels and why not through social networks. So it was in the drafting of our draft, looking at the framework document, a level that is sufficient and also real.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U103	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U104	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! There has been a long discussion today about the need for a bill and how to implement it if it should go well. In your speech, you also spoke about the costs of the bill's entry into force, but since the opposition has been accused of making up all sorts of things, but don't think about how much it all costs, maybe you'll talk about the cost side. What would the entry into force of this bill cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U105	Thank you, good questioner! As we have emphasised, this law does not need additional financing. We have had a wide range of programmes throughout our independence to learn Estonian as a national language. Unfortunately, if we look at the feedback, you will certainly know that our latest integration plans have received quite destructive assessments, where integration has become almost an intriguing word. We have put a lot of resources into them, but the feedback is that they have rather not produced the desired results. It has also been agreed that there is often a lack of a systemic, uniform approach. For example, children's language camps can be found here. These were so-called home-learning language camps, which were very, very popular. Many rural areas in southern Estonia were invited from urban areas, especially Ida-Virumaa, to have children of quite a younger age. They lived in so-called camps, homes where language training took place. These volumes have decreased significantly, and if you listen to feedback from schools in the South-East Estonian regions, for example, these projects will no longer be supported at this level. What we are stressing in the context of this draft is that the available resources should be used much more systematically, not so alone that one school supports one project, another one at another school, someone does, writes a little better and gets a little more. It has to be a national matter, it is a national policy, it has to be a national approach. For example, if everyone does something on their knees, we will certainly not get such a scale, such an effect if we could have the same resources even in significantly smaller volumes even if they were compiled uniformly nationally. So if you respond directly, the implementation of Bill 272 will not bring any significant changes to the 2013 state budget. The money available for these same projects, as well as for the Ministry of Education and Research, for which the aim is to teach the national language, can simply be used more systematically.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U106	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U107	Thank you very much. Good Mailis! At two o'clock this afternoon, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, together with the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, will take time to discuss thoroughly the status of Finno-Ugric peoples, the situation in many respects, including cultural and language aspects. Since you answered my first question very thoroughly and analytically, you may be willing to do the same for the Finno-Ugric peoples. There is a completely different language situation in Finland, for example, the Swedish status is quite different from the Russian status in Estonia. Hungary has its own advantages and also its own disadvantages, not to mention the small Finno-Ugric peoples who live in the Russian Federation. In this context, if you analyze bill 272 and our amendment, what would you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U108	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, as far as the Republic of Finland is concerned, Finland does indeed have two official languages. In the Republic of Estonia, none of the parliamentary parties or other serious parties are even prepared to discuss another national language. There is one official language in Estonia, it has been decided and there is no debate in Estonia. With regard to various language learning opportunities, Finns are likely to feel comfortable and confident enough. Finland has quite generously and abundantly offered opportunities to study in its own language, and Finns are also quite free for certain reasons, such as religious reasons, to allow private schools, funded on a uniform basis, due to the diversity of minorities. So they're private schools, but they're funded nationally or at municipal level, how they're funding something in their system. They are therefore linked to the country's common education system, it is in Finnish or Swedish, but there are quite a few possibilities for differences. Hungary is in a very different situation. Hungarians pay extremely high political attention to everything that concerns minorities. As the good questioner certainly knows very well, it relates mainly to the large Hungarian-speaking regions outside the current national borders of Hungary. After all, rather painful debates on Hungarian have been held with neighbouring countries since Slovakia. In addition, Hungary has quite significant regions and language communities, as well as school requirements, in several former Soviet republics. Therefore, because of a different political background, Hungarians are among the spokespersons in the language demands of very large minorities, especially in the educational requirements that they should have minority language schools, etc. If we go to the Finno-Ugric peoples living in Russia, their situation is, of course, much more complicated. When you look at official documents, there are, of course, promises at the level of autonomy. The real situation is, unfortunately, largely this, talking about upper secondary school education in the meaning of the draft law 272, that if an effort has been made to teach in the relevant Finno-Ugric language, or even is already being taught, then upper secondary school education is usually in Russian. This is why support for Finno-Ugric peoples, which Estonia has been quite lucky, sometimes even alone, is important. Fortunately, now the Finns and Hungarians have come more along, but to a large extent it has been on top of us. Thanks to our various support projects, literature has appeared, promotions have been given to certain cultural figures, which are not actually done in the Russian Federation, regardless of the legislative background, as I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U109	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The Government of the Republic's opinion on the draft is that for the last ten years the state of Estonia has been working very thoroughly on the training of teachers teaching in Estonian in Russian-language schools. You have, as you know, led the process of transition to education in Estonian several times during this decade. What changes have the Ministry of Education and Research made in schools in other languages?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U111	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, when we go back to the ten-year practice I have referred to, particularly the years 2002 to 2003, this was an extremely difficult time for education policy. There were street riots in our neighbouring Republic of Latvia, and the entire educational policy questionnaire on Russian-speaking education was also raised in our Government and Riigikogu, not to mention our defence bodies. The main educational policy objective of the Ministry was to establish a dialogue with Russian-speaking schools to prevent conflict, to prevent risks. When you look at this ten years ago, it was quite the first moment that Russian-speaking schools felt that they were partners to ask for their opinion. And an incredible number of questioners also received very constructive answers. Consequently, I dare to generalise that the political slogans that are sometimes being raised, such as our Russian-speaking schools do not want to learn the official language or that they are not loyal to us, that is certainly not the case. The staff of our Russian-speaking schools are highly educated teachers who are willing to pass on their best knowledge to children. That's one. Another point that should be emphasised here. The Government of the Republic's opinion on draft 272 is true in that it has indeed been constantly told how the teaching of the state language is a priority for us, how we need to strengthen the teaching of the state language more and more, how teaching the Estonian language to teachers is important, and consequently various programmes have been implemented. What I do not want to agree with, however, is that it has been very effective. The biggest deficit I see is that it has often been one-sided. Someone somewhere thought that this kind of training was very good, and then there's the training that everyone needs to fit in. Very rarely has it been asked what, for example, mathematics teachers or chemistry teachers really need when teaching their subject in Russian. However, they should be able to communicate in the Estonian language environment, know the official language in order to obtain information, etc. Or if, for example, we look at upper secondary school teachers who, after some time, should be able to discuss the integration of subjects in the teachers' room together, then with this rather arbitrary division into Estonian and Russian we will definitely lose in inter-material integration. As a result, upper secondary school education in Russian-speaking schools can also be affected in general. One more thing to consider is that during the entire period of regained independence the Republic of Estonia has given extremely confusing signals. The fact that we have had a common understanding that we expect from Russian-speaking schools, as the opinion on Draft 272 has tried to say, is unfortunately not true. If we recall history, the date of the start of the so-called 'transition' alone has been postponed five or six times. There is a signal that it will take place in 1997, then it has been said that it will take place in 2000, then it has been said that it will take place in 2004. As 2004 drew closer, it began to discuss what this transition meant, where to go. So when it comes to the fact that Russian schools have had 20 years to know what is expected of them, the only knowledge they really have is that we have a national language. In this respect, I believe, at least those who want to speak in an educational policy, not only politically, have gained confidence that we really have a national language in place. There's no debate here. Teachers, students and parents feel the need for Estonian language skills. It is about measures, methods and sources of motivation that we want to give to young people. If a young person sees that he or she can continue to learn here that he or she will receive a competitive education, that he or she will be able to receive, for example, student support, that he or she has sufficient opportunities to create his or her own entrepreneurship, etc., then this young person will certainly be prepared to stay here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U112	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I heard a fragment about teaching history to Russian students in Russian schools. The memory of an active teacher he spoke of was soon remembered. He's been working at a school in both languages. When he told Estonian children that during the winter nights they worked white farts in the farmhouse, Estonian children laughed at it and said that it was funny, fart white to work. Russian children understood what it meant, they had been well trained. However, this is about something else. What about the motivation to learn the Estonian language, both among Estonians and among Russians? Scandinavian forecasts say that in 50 years' time Estonian will perhaps be the language of the kitchen, and we will be dealing with a small, happy, medium-rich, English province if the current education policy continues. What's the comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U114	Thank you, good questioner! Your questions are always thought-provoking. We must first look at the Estonian language development plan for 2011‐2017, where it is precisely these problems that are being addressed. I'm sure a good questioner's been familiar with it, at least browsing. After all, the aim there is not only this narrow draft 272 issue, the deepening of the knowledge of the Estonian language of non-language residents as a national language, but also the position of the Estonian language, the development of the Estonian language, the situation in which we are faced with information technology developments, higher education reform and everything else. For example, how does our higher education reform affect young people's desire to learn Estonian as a national language in a situation where it is quite clear that very many universities adapt to the requirement that subjects may be taught in Estonian without tuition fees and tuition fees can be taken in other language studies? This means that universities, I'm not saying, are they panicked, but quite actively preparing various programs in English. There may then be a legitimate question that if, for example, a young person completes an Estonian-language, bilingual or other language upper secondary school, be it in the Republic of Estonia or elsewhere, he or she will continue to study the Estonian Higher Education Area, whether his or her first choice is the Estonian-language environment or whether it is an English-language environment. I believe that, as part of the amendments to the basic school and upper secondary school law on language learning, the Committee on Culture should analyse very seriously, if not immediately, at least one year or two after the reform of higher education has actually taken place, what are our young people's choices at the end. After all, we can now predict that many things may be affected by the fact that education is free of charge. But equally, the fact that studying in English, paying tuition fees for it, maybe linguistic development is faster and opportunities for further learning are better. Perhaps you can also study specializations that are offered in Estonian on a scale that is not satisfactory. For example, economic studies, image design, interior architecture, etc., which are very popular and are now largely subject to a fee. The current Minister of Education and Research has a pretty good hope that universities will adapt, close curricula and reduce study places. Probably a good questioner, however, is very well informed through the university that real life makes its corrections, and if the market is willing to offer the university money for economic education in English, there are very few rectors who are willing to say no. Rather, quite a lot is taught in English, with a larger volume. If we take the Netherlands, whose experience as a good questioner is certainly up to date and where I have personally studied, there was a huge amount of study in English at several universities. In law, for example, only very specific Dutch courses were taught in Dutch; they were so-called optional courses chosen by Dutch students. All the rest, interdisciplinary and international subjects, all of which were a bit wider, more exciting, were in English. And I have to admit, even the Faculty of Law dared to admit to us that it is almost 70% in English. They were not very concerned that Dutch was somehow disappearing, but they stressed that their worldview had changed significantly, their cultural environment changed as a result. They also stressed that their scientific language had changed, and that is certainly something that our scientists have highlighted. So if you look at the potential choices of our young people in the future, there is certainly no separate basic school and upper secondary school law here. After all, in the Committee on Culture, we have always invited students to the student mothers, and surely we should also invite students to the basic school and upper secondary school law procedure. However, it is clear that if a young person who is now somewhere at the end of primary school and has to choose his or her way, gets this input, he or she is likely to suffer Estonian lessons quite well, perhaps even motivated to learn the national language. But if he knows that he is studying in an English language environment, then it is quite likely that his greater attention will go even to the acquisition of this second foreign language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U115	Thank you very much. We're still sticking to the basic school and upper secondary school law. It was very interesting when it came to high schools, but let's stick to the bill we're discussing. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U116	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! How do you assess whether the draft will bring about positive changes in this area, take for example the responsibilities of the state and Estonian-language teachers in different subjects? I will give another example, and I will continue on the subject of Mr Allik, the subject of teaching history. We know very well that very good teachers, professionals in Russian-speaking schools, do not speak Estonian as well as they need to teach this subject. On the other hand, many teachers who teach history have received only additional courses, they are not history teachers. It's still a big problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U117	Thank you, good questioner! I believe that the positive side of draft 272 is first a dialogue. A good questioner knows very well that we worked three years on the basic school and upper secondary school law. We have dealt very thoroughly with different aspects, and we have been given a very clear message from the outset that all issues concerning the language of instruction will be dealt with separately. So we dealt with the responsibility of the head of school, the responsibility of the student and everything else, talked very thoroughly about the learning of children with special needs, the forms of study, the various aspects of the activities of the schoolmaster, for example, in terms of compliance with school obligations or non-compliance, but when we reached the language of instruction, the vote began. We didn't really analyze the language of instruction with our partners. Our proposal is to return through Bill 272 to the part of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act concerning the language of instruction. When we talk about why we want 60%, which is in the current law, to be replaced by what we offer, the 60% background is actually abstract. We know that it was proposed in due course because it was over half. No serious analysis of what this really means for mandatory substances has been carried out to date. We are in the Committee on Culture and you have certainly heard at various events how top officials of the Ministry of Education explain that they do not count these percentages. Each school shows in its development plan the subjects that it would like to teach in Estonian, and they see that the volume of such subjects is more than half. It's a 60% message. In reality, this means that among the subjects that are supposedly offered as electives for teaching in Estonian, there are certainly those that are never taught. There are certainly those subjects that I hope will never be taught, or perhaps the teacher is not at such a level as to be able to teach them in normal Estonian. Or vice versa, a teacher who speaks Estonian has been found, but maybe he doesn't know his subject very well. This simple control of percentages after putting together substances is definitely our first and most important reason why we initiated this draft. Another very important issue, as I have already emphasised, is that there was no discussion of the language of instruction in the Committee on Culture. However, the expectation that Russian-speaking schools will start a dialogue, that this issue will be discussed in substance, that the political mask will be removed and that there will be talk in education policy is very high. It's a gap we're filling right now. Thirdly, if you look at the substance, the questions of teacher preparation, teacher training and teaching tools can only be nationally resolved. It is not possible that each local authority itself organises the development of further training, textbooks and teaching tools for its teachers, and we are talking about some kind of national policy in the language field. These are three aspects why the draft is extremely important. But the first and most important thing is dialogue. We are listening to this side, which we did not listen to in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U118	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Last night, I was given this book in a Tallinn bookstore, Volume 17 of works compiled by Vladimir Lenin, published in 1936. I didn't buy it, it was given to me. I opened it from an arbitrary place and discovered an article entitled 'Another time about the division of school into nations', written by Lenin in December 1913 99 years ago. Lenin explains the division of nations based on the need to study in the mother tongue. The article is very confusing, but what is the question? Here is a sentence such as 'Marxists are fighting against the division of schools into nationalities, or teaching in their mother tongue. " How has it been that the position of the Estonian Ministry of Education coincides one hundred percent with the Marxist view of Lenin, which he published a hundred years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U120	Good point of view!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U121	As I continue to comment on the premier of the Riigikogu, I would say that we can make a number of points here as to why the approach of the Ministry of Education is exactly that. Perhaps their education or experience has been gained at the time when the concept of Marxist philosophy was fundamental, but essentially by looking at: what are we doing differently today or rightly? I am not familiar with the volumes mentioned, and my knowledge of Russian is certainly not at such a level that I can read it in the original language. But if you look at Estonia's policy of Russification, I dare say that it achieved, at least in a certain age group, the almost non-existent Russian language skills of Estonians. It was popular to be an Estonian who couldn't speak anything in Russian. In our family, where almost all the grandparents were taken to Siberia and many of them lost their lives there, it was extremely popular for a very long time not to boast Russian. A different cultural background only came in with my older generation, where it was said that it was Russian culture and so on. I remember my mother's long arguments with my uncle about whether or not Russian culture needs to be known. What do I mean by that? We make the same mistake if we think that the Russian youths in today's Russian-speaking schools are different. We actually achieve exactly the same effect as the only signal they get is that they have to learn the official language because they have to, that is the order; if we forget the explanation work there, if we do not want to give young people the opportunity to see why they are learning it, do not bother to have enough dialogue for various reasons and ask what concerns Russian teachers. Perhaps they are not always able or motivated to give this signal to young people. As you have repeatedly pointed out from this remote control, we learn the language of young people for ten years, while at the same time they are unable to communicate in that language later. Consequently, either methodically or essentially, there is an extremely serious mistake that we are constantly repeating. In this sense, we have learned nothing from history. When a young person is motivated, he learns the language. The simple example that Estonia has constantly been given is that when the borders opened, people with very different language backgrounds went through Estonia to Finland and were able to participate in the labour market in six months' time. Consequently, we also have something completely different from that of the school system, which cannot be expected to do anything on its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U122	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U123	Thank you very much. Good performer! The text of the bill specifically lists which subjects must be taught in Estonian, and you touched on this subject a little bit. But the list is longer, here is Estonian language, Estonian literature, social studies, music, Estonian history, human geography, entrepreneurship. How did you get to that list exactly? Maybe you can tell me why these and not some other substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U124	Thank you, good questioner! In response to Mr Jaak Alli, I have already touched on this subject in part. This list, which has also been accepted by the Ministry of Education and Research through implementing legislation, is the background of more than a year of cooperation with subject specialists, representatives of Russian-speaking schools, parents and, most importantly, specialists from Tallinn University who analysed the matter and made these proposals, which were discussed in a very large circle. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic, the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Research, on which the Government of the Republic relies, has been drafted by Mrs Sirje Soo, it is not accepted that this statement that real subjects are not recommended to be taught in a foreign language is an extremely outdated stereotyped concept. Let me quote: '... Since the Russian community has traditionally given priority to teaching science, and stereotypically it is found that teaching them in Russian is more effective. The choice and possibility of teaching science in Russian are available in schools, because 40% of the minimum compulsory study volume is organised by the school in Russian at its own choice. " This response stresses that it is quite possible to teach real subjects, such as physics or chemistry, in Estonian to children in other languages. When it comes to what our proposal was based on, we will take the list of mandatory subjects that you can find in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act 272. I'm not going to read it, you can all watch it and analyze it. Let's see what subjects are on this list and take out other foreign languages, because there is no logical expectation, especially when we refer to the European framework document, that, for example, English is taught through Estonian. It is still taught in English; today there are methods that really teach a foreign language through a foreign language. We are also taking out physical education in the Committee on Culture, although there was a long discussion as to whether it was justified to withdraw physical education from it. I am still of the opinion that this is not very serious when we say that we have eight courses in physical education in Estonian, and then as the volume of Estonian is partly full. We are still talking about the compulsory subjects that provide communistism, which gives young people the opportunity to practice Estonian also in the language environment where they may not use Estonian every day. The vocabulary of these subjects is complicated enough to give the vocabulary associated with social life, which supports the Estonian language already available, giving the opportunity to discuss, constantly improve itself. This list was developed in such a way that it first excluded some subjects on which specialists reached a common position at least ten years ago, according to which there is no reason to assume that, for example, physics education can be very successful in Estonian. Social education, as I emphasised, was chosen because it relates to the citizenship exam, and music is such a matter of cultural background. History, of course, created the most controversy. The novelty we have proposed is entrepreneurship education. Entrepreneurship education came in with a new amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and it has provided educational materials this year. Since schools are still in the process of introducing this subject and are certainly looking for the best and most competent teachers to do so, it was our proposal for schools to analyse this possibility. The feedback was quite positive. It was found that if the introduction of entrepreneurship education is publicly supported, as well as teacher preparation, refresher training, if even teachers are found in areas where there are more Russian-speaking schools, then why not offer this course in Estonian, in addition to teaching several schools. These new things have been added to the list. But, yes, the first is that, in addition to the regular training of the Estonian language, we give in a foreign language, say, in the Estonian national language, the subjects that help young people to develop the language the most. One more thing to consider. Since the 1960s, we have in-depth schools with the support of Mr Eisen. In these in-depth education schools, foreign language learning began to be analysed quite quickly with researchers from the Institute of Scientific Research in the ESSR. Under Estonian conditions, this education was in French, English and German. I would stress that it was the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. The Institute of Scientific Research in the ESSR studied quite thoroughly what better methods to use to teach subjects in foreign languages and what results it will produce. I believe that everyone in this Chamber knows that from schools with historically so-called linguistic inclinations, we have come with very good language skills. So we have a historical experience of how selected subjects have been taught in a foreign language for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U125	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U126	Thank you. Good colleague! We know that in the subject area of the national upper secondary school curriculum 'Foreign languages', the emphasis on interactive teaching is placed on teaching Estonian as a second language. It is also necessary to create opportunities for the teacher to actively use the Estonian language outside the hour. Most of all, the student's abilities and skills are known by the class manager who will be taken away next year, as I know, from the class management fee. I have a question in this regard: how do you appreciate the opportunity of a teacher, especially a class manager, to support students who need to learn the official language in a foreign language environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U127	Thank you. That's a very broad question. Unfortunately, I don't have any good research here. Perhaps the closest to this topic was the study carried out by Vello Pettai's study group in Tallinn, but it was only about Tallinn. If we look at the difficulties of these young people, there has been a great deal of international research into people who come into another language environment, who are in another cultural space and need to adapt there. According to international studies, there are several conflicts. The first conflict is that a young person is confused about determining his identity. Very often, this can cause reluctance to the local state of life, and if it does not receive sufficient support, confusion and conflict within the family itself. I have studied quite a number of studies in the United States concerning the so-called second and third generations. This phenomenon has also been studied quite thoroughly by the French for the last two years. Their analyses show that a young person who is a representative of a second or third generation, i.e. no longer a newcomer, but a young person who grows into a second or third generation in another cultural and linguistic environment, who knows perfectly the local language, can still feel deeply alienated. Such people are fully adapted in terms of integration, know the language, know the culture, are probably educated there, and in the French environment they are all French, but at the same time they are completely alienated. They are not feeling well, are not motivated enough for certain agencies, for example in the public sector they are not even willing to compete because they feel that they are not equal to others. Such deep inferiority. So, at least on the basis of the studies that we can look at internationally, this is a very serious issue that we have not dealt with publicly enough. Both Russian-speaking and Estonian-speaking schools have certainly encountered it in Estonia. There have been quite a number of children from Russian-speaking families coming to Estonian-language schools year after year, and I know at least a number of schools in Tallinn who have done separate long-day groups or groups of overtime for these children, because they are unable to do their homework alone. Their family is unable to support them at all because of the language barrier. Moreover, several Estonian-language schools, for example, have given feedback through class managers, that as the language barrier is sometimes present, there is a problem that the information does not reach parents. Estonian-language schools are introduced to the first class, but quite often they also come from the immersion of the tongue. The early immersion has been in the language bath school and if you have to enter the late immersion, it may be that there is either no late immersion in this school or you decide to go to the Estonian-language school. Such emotional, but educational problems are quite acute. I have also received feedback from Russian-speaking schools. Recently, I visited two Russian-speaking schools, for example, where it was said that the number of children who have come from the Estonian-speaking school has increased year after year, and this has been done in the 6th and 7th grade or from the immersion school. Of these, the school had a separate class, the so-called "small learning" class and children with special educational needs. The reason was that they didn't speak Russian properly enough to go on with the study. Their oral language is, of course, very good because of their domestic circumstances, but literacy is poor or almost nonexistent. These are educational backgrounds. As far as social background is concerned, as I said, I can rely on international research. There is no such good study in Estonia, except for the Pettai group survey. I dare say that the feedback from the class leaders or such an emotional side is very important. The headmaster must be constantly informed of the problems and joys of the students. And the question arises here is whether, for example, the headmaster who has to work with the children of Russian-speaking families at the Estonian-speaking school is prepared to do so if he has such a linguistic background. We should certainly talk about this more openly, that teachers also need more support, that they need more knowledge on how to solve certain issues in different cultural spaces. I believe that, on the cultural background, we have not analysed very well what some or others may mean. But when it comes to simply paying the class manager's fee, maybe it wasn't the Ministry of Education and Research and the Minister's goal, but the signal about the alleged loss of the class manager's fee has still reached society. Perhaps tomorrow we will be able to renegotiate this issue in Question Time, but this signal has given rise to a great deal of reluctance in society. Certainly also within the framework of Bill 272, when we talk about the percentage or not of the conversion of the language of instruction to the percentages, the message that the head of class gives to parents and students is very important. And if he himself is uncertain about his future, or if he has understood that his work is not important at all, he is disliked by the country, which is the last signal we should give on the already thin ice of our current education policy. If this is true, as Mr Aaviksoo stressed last Monday from this remote point of view, that the class manager's remuneration does not actually disappear, that it will be counted next year on the payroll, then the Ministry of Education and Research also needs to show it in the language of figures as a matter of urgency. If you read the county leaves, unfortunately, there is a constant inconsistency, as quite a number of county newspapers have identified the educational cost of next year as the main problem. When local governments learned the first so-called control figures, it was a signal to many that there was not enough money to raise teachers' salaries, not to mention other bonuses, including the class manager's fee. So if the class manager's fee does not go away, the Ministry of Education and Research will be asked to confirm it to the local governments as soon as possible also through the money numbers. In a situation where we step by step go more and more towards Estonian-language learning, where we need to cooperate with families so that Estonian-language learning is understood as motivation, as an opportunity, not as an obligation and a forced measure, the class manager certainly has a key role to play.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U128	Please, Mr Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U129	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear waitress, The Government's opinion, which does not support the draft, states that the initiators have not relied on specific studies. At the same time, we know that teaching in Estonian at a Russian-speaking school means teaching in proportion to 40: 60. Can you tell us which studies were based on by the legislator, suggesting just this proportion? How much research has been involved in planning this whole transition? As a former Minister of Education, you are probably best placed to answer such a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U130	Thank you, good questioner! I'm sure there are even better respondents, and I'm sure scientists can tell you how much research has been done here in the first place. I've been trying to keep myself informed when new things have appeared. These have been more surveys, and there have been quite a number of master's thesiss written on the subject, and there have not been many collections of articles. Is it scientifically justified at 60: 40? I already pointed out here that it had to be a little over half. I'm absolutely sure there was nothing back there but a decision to be more than half. More than half of what could be used to list compulsory subjects was not achieved in the last three years when we discussed the basic school and upper secondary school law. Our proposal is to deal with this now. In the Committee on Culture, I have repeatedly introduced the draft, but I am happy to discuss it again in this Chamber. Our aim is to bring the issue of the language of instruction to a large hall, to discuss it and to signal that if we leave aside all politics for a moment and look at the issue only from an educational point of view, there are not many subjects on the list of compulsory subjects that could be taught in a real, practical way in a foreign language, if our aim is to teach Estonian well, to give young people knowledge of the Estonian language. If there's any other purpose behind this, then that's another question. But I'm talking about this remote from the educational point of view today. If we take up this list, which is set out in the explanatory memorandum, and start looking at these subjects in a row, then the subjects that could be taught in Estonian are not very much. If there are any alternative offers, we would be happy to discuss them all one by one in the context of the amendments, to analyse them, to see what other substances they might be. If someone has a credible proposal to propose selective courses and would like them to be mandatory, why not? Our proposal now was that we list mandatory subjects and that the optional courses should be offered to the study course chosen in accordance with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. If, for example, there is a proposal to design and undertake optional courses based on the course of study, please. By the way, there is such an approach in Norway that courses of study are nationally pre-defined as the national curriculum, it has been said that such and such courses have such and such mandatory subjects and such and such electives. And for electives there are also nationally prepared materials and teaching tools, national refresher training. The school creates a study course based on its choices, but for these choices, it is covered with educational material. It is justified in this respect that, when we look at the publishers on the free market, the same transition raises the question of who produces educational resources. In market-economy terms, no publisher will do that unless he knows exactly how many of them will be ordered, what the target group will be and who will pay. And if we already have a serious problem with certain foreign languages, such as the production of German-language materials is not cost-effective in financial terms, in the case of electives, especially if it means teaching one or the other subject in Estonian at a Russian-speaking school, which requires specific teaching material, I have a strong suspicion that the publishers operating in a market economy will do so of their own free will, after paying. It is likely that a national approach is needed here. Our proposal is that it should be organised nationally and, if necessary, public procurement and various support mechanisms developed. The rationale for developing elective subjects at each school level is, in any case, very, very questionable. That is certainly not the goal. As far as the studies on our substances are concerned, we have also been based on a social background. Rather, young people's attitudes, interests, expectations, and readiness have been studied. Taking into account the attitudes of young people, we have been guided by the principle that they should first be given basic knowledge of the Estonian language, but these subjects should be chosen in such a way that more complex subjects, which are also mandatory for the state examination in our sense, can be further studied in Russian if such a desire exists. Of course, there is always an opportunity to study them in Estonian, because there are no areas where there are no Estonian-language schools. In its opinion on draft 272, the Government of the Republic has also pointed out that, from their point of view, it is precisely the fact that our upper secondary schools do not have at least 100 pupils that are a major problem in acquiring Estonian language and developing Estonian-language subjects. I would like to remind you here that, as a result of the three-year procedure of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the Riigikogu decided very clearly that there would be no numerical limit to upper secondary schools, not 100, 150 or 180, which were all on offer. We do not have a numerical requirement as to the size of the upper secondary school and to state, as a justification for rejecting the draft 272, that upper secondary schools with fewer than 100 students do not provide sufficient proficiency in Estonian as a national language, it is certainly arbitrary. I very much doubt whether the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Research was based on some kind of proper study or qualitative survey to say that if the upper secondary school is too small, the level of teaching the national language is not good enough. On the contrary, the logic of the language teacher is that it is better to teach the language in a smaller group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U131	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madame performer! It is very interesting to listen to the answers to these questions and the text of the bill is very exciting. Having worked in my own language for years, not in my own language, I know how difficult it is. I also know that there are not many examples in world literature where a writer has not written his masterpiece in his native language. It is therefore clear that it is very difficult to study subjects, physics, chemistry and perhaps even more complex subjects not in their own language. This bill is very nice, I think it's very thorough, but it's probably not going to get very far either. Would you analyze a little why there is the opposite atmosphere in this hall and the different understanding of language learning that you offer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U133	Thank you, good questioner! In a foreign language environment, education and research can certainly be achieved by the most talented. In this hall, there are certainly people in higher and lower chairs who are capable of doing so. But if we look at how other countries are in general, there are many different levels of opportunities in larger countries for those who have just come to the country and are not familiar with language and culture at all. The reason is that the ability of people to learn a language is very different. In addition, there may also be very, very large capacity differences due to specific needs. So there can't be a similar expectation that this is now this standard and everyone has to fit in there. Fortunately, however, the whole logic of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is reversed. At every step, we admit that each young or older person has different abilities. We admit that we have to take into account all sorts of differences, and that is why there are some things that are difficult for you, but, given your brilliance, they are capable, very unattainable to many. What can we do about it? The first thing is that language learning methods must be much more attractive. That is also one thing that we should all pay more attention to together. As I have already emphasised, this is why Estonian language learning goes so hard in so many schools. The second, the main thing is the motivation that we then offer to a young person who knows the language very well, more than his colleague. There are positive examples in the Riigikogu in the form of people who are able to communicate very well in Estonian and be members of the Riigikogu. But in the wider public, it is necessary to give young people more confidence. This is perhaps not so much the message 'Welcome to Estonia', which is directed outside Estonia, but it is the message to our fellow countrymen that they are needed here that they are welcome here. The contributions we have made to educating young people are not intended to get them out of here, but, on the contrary, to really channel their abilities here. The third question is the atmosphere. At the moment, the atmosphere is very good. After all, we are discussing here constructively, and there was an extremely constructive atmosphere to some extent in the Committee on Culture. The question of language of instruction was discussed in substance, not perhaps for a very long time, but in substance. At the meetings of the Committee on Culture, we have also discussed, for example, the strategy for developing the Estonian language and, within this framework, the problems of the Estonian language. During the discussions on higher education, we also talked about language learning. But the bottom line is, when it comes to making decisions, politics comes into play. Then there will be slogans that if we make such concessions, even though I do not understand where these concessions come from, we will question the national language, or something else political will be said. When it comes to the atmosphere, education policy is too much about language learning. It's unfortunately, especially after the Bronze Night, for a lot of people with the value of a symbol, it has something to do with getting votes. It is as if the more you can incite ethnic hatred, the better one or two parties will have results. This is what makes the atmosphere non-constructive. I believe that if most members of the Riigikogu could come out of this box for a moment and talk to the schoolteacher in substance, they would understand that the demand of 60% and 40% is not wise. We should talk about what the state could do to ensure that the knowledge of the Estonian language in schools is actually better, that the knowledge of the subject of teachers is not diminished, that young people are motivated to stay here and that we do not anger with our coercive mechanisms, the fines of the language inspection and everything else. We must not constantly signal that you must, forgetting why. That's the saddest thing about the prevailing atmosphere.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U134	Please, Mr Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U135	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Social scientists have said that prohibitions and orders can do very little in the country, that motivation and, in particular, economic resources are needed. In a small country, much money is needed to protect the main language, i.e. the national language or the national language. In other words, the Minister of Education and Science also explained to us that if we want to save in the field of education, the language of higher education is very important for upper secondary school graduates, etc. Upper secondary school teachers complain that their students do not use software programs in Estonian because they are not very filigrative, but in English. Does the Estonian state have the will to spend more money than has been the case so far in order to motivate the state to learn, hold and develop the language? Do you see that kind of money and will?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U136	Thank you, good questioner! This question now goes to the analysis of the Estonian language development plan. I would be extremely grateful if the Commission's rapporteur, being among those who have made this development plan, experts, is ready to respond to this question later on from this platform. Mr Paul-Eerik Rummo can certainly say more about its motivation and objectives. If you look at the amount proposed in the document, it is almost EUR 37 million. However, if you look at it more broadly, it is certainly not just measures that have been written down here in financial terms. In the case of language development, in our country of quite a number of nationalities, the technological base, as a good questioner certainly knows very well, is complicated enough. A few years ago, there was a great hope that if we translate certain software programs, the Estonian language would be saved. Unfortunately, life made its corrections: firstly, we are unable to make innovations quickly enough, at least not in all areas, and secondly, any interesting solutions will come up so quickly that our clever young person will continue to develop them in English. What we can build on in the light of this draft is the recognition that the level of teaching the Estonian language and cooperation with Russian-speaking schools must be further improved. For example, in those areas where Estonian and Russian schools are side by side, the attitude must be broken. Substantive cooperation must be carried out, not mandatory cooperation under the project. I'm sure there's a lot of shortcomings here. After all, we have local governments, where there are two schools, one in Russian and one in Estonian, and even there both parents and teachers in local cooperation have very often understood that therefore one school will be shut down. Various innovations in Tartu have been presented as the most positive example for the rest of the Republic. At the same time, it has certainly given a signal to a large number of Russian-speaking schools that innovations must definitely be resisted, because the word for efficiency and innovation is actually behind the closure of Russian-speaking schools. So in a school way, the example of Tartu certainly gave quite a clear message to the rest of the regions to be even more cautious. If you look at Kehra or Kunda, for example, where schools have gone under one roof, you have to say that the feedback from the first years of these schools was quite clearly that Estonian was in the background. Estonian youth learned Russian very quickly, at least at the level of spoken language, because the temperament remained in communication. Of course, the background of this region must be taken into account. There are families who often work for the same employer, grow up in the same apartment building and have probably played together since very small time. So the example of such regions is also quite difficult to understand elsewhere. But in terms of the development of the Estonian language, it is very important to note that we have increasingly encouraged the teaching of the Estonian language at the level of control mechanisms that certainly do not support good Estonian language skills. A number of research works have been carried out on broken English, or broken English, in which it degrades the English language and the language environment. It is feared that if we do not seriously analyse what is happening in Estonian-language learning and do not support it with measures, including educational tools, it may happen that at some point we need to carry out analyses of such a faulty Estonian language and start developing it in a scientific methodology. In any case, it is clear that the skills of both teachers and students in the Estonian language are quite poor in order to deal with those young people who come from another language environment. We do not have enough recognition that the acquisition of Estonian and Estonian subjects needs to be supported much more seriously, as the linguistic and perhaps cultural background of learners requires it. After all, it is extremely important that, in a situation where there is so much innovative software on the market, with which we cannot race, the IT solutions that come to our schools would be in the correct Estonian language, so that they would not have been translated in Google, but would have been reviewed by specialists. If there are fundamental errors in the teaching tools, both in those that come into the e-environment and, unfortunately, in the printed materials, it is not possible to apologise for this with some rapid technological development, but here scientists and proofreaders must be extremely strict.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-11_U137	Our time is up. Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps, for such thorough answers. We will continue this debate tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
