ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U1	Good morning. We will begin the 10th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U2	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Alliance of Democrats, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Some time ago we talked about the fact that in the border rankings, the Tax and Customs Board has also committed itself to taxing fuel which, in fact, passengers should not be taxed. The situation is now coming to an end and the Tax and Customs Board recognises its mistakes. Any person who has paid excess tax in accordance with the definition of destination can ask the Tax and Customs Board for the refund. There will also be a draft coming to the Riigikogu, which will abolish the concept of destination and determine how often people can cross the border. Our questioning still concerns what is happening at the border crossing point. Indeed, border crossings are currently regulated electronically. For all vehicles passing through border crossing points, the place must be booked. Cars and buses travel to the border and cross it according to the order. However, there have also been situations where there are no queues and the border guard has sent cars back to pass through the waiting area. Many passengers have found that returning to the waiting area is contrary to good administrative practice and certain contracts and laws. We have five questions for the Minister of the Interior. For example, why is it that travellers who have booked a place in the queue of border crossings are not allowed to cross the border without passing the waiting area? They have to go through the waiting area and pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U3	Thank you very much. I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. If it complies with our Home and Working Procedures Act, I will immediately forward it to the addressee. Now I'm supposed to give you the messages, but since we've been here with you all along, there are no messages. Please, let's do the presence check! 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. Now, let me put a little detail on the agenda. On today's third item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu will make a presentation on behalf of the Government. On today's fourth, seventh and ninth agenda items, the Chairman of the Committee Mati Raidma will make a presentation on behalf of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U4	As regards the beginning of the Thursday session, we have interrupted the second reading debate on the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act 310, and I am now calling on the floor again, Mr Kalle Palling. He has a nice question from colleague Aivar Riisalu. Please, Mr Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U5	Good manager! Good waitress! My concern is not very great, but it has to do with the fact that every time something is taken away from someone and allowed to return to another circle in any way, it means that the decision is going somewhere that it should not go. I will take the example of EAS, where, indeed, there has been a lot of confusion in the distribution of various sums in recent times. There I sense the danger that future decisions may not be the most adequate and, let's say, they favour local authorities. Was it discussed in the Commission that such a problem might arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U6	This was not discussed, but the decision on the mechanism of how future environmental charges will be received by local authorities is here and now in our hands. As we know, we are dealing with the second reading of Bill 310, which will lay the foundations for this mechanism. Allow me, however, to clarify the answer to one question from Yana Toomi, which really did not receive a specific answer. Mrs Toom asked for a specific section. This is § 13 (1) (2) of the Environmental Charges Act. However, I will stick to my earlier reply that it is the draft that we are discussing here that creates the presumption that environmental charges will still be received by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U7	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U8	Honourable waitress! At first reading, the initiators confirmed that the local authorities' revenue base would not decrease on the basis of this draft. Am I right to understand that the money released as a result of the reduction in the payment of the mining right and the associated fee for the specific use of water will be returned to the municipalities through the Equalisation Fund to the State budget? It's a little complicated. Why don't you explain the need for this scheme? What's with the layout?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U9	This thing has two sides. Firstly, mining mineral deposits of national importance, such as oil shale mining from oil shale deposits, is not just a matter for the municipalities on whose territory the mine is located. This effect is wider. Secondly, as I have repeatedly said, this bill was born on the initiative of the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa and there is no layout here. In fact, there is a very pragmatic reason for this, and it is perfectly understandable that the interest of local governments is at stake. The system of environmental charges will become more honest with all the municipalities, as the first principle that I mentioned will also be taken into account. It is not just a matter of their individual municipalities; it concerns Estonia in general. So far, the municipality in whose territory the mine was located, for example, received a mining right fee from neighbouring municipalities whose territory was not in contact with the mine. A completely practical problem is, for example, in the rural municipality of Maidla. The mine was closed, the fee is no longer due and there is a serious deficit in the rural municipality's budget. With this bill, we will make the collection of money fairer for all the municipalities, and the money will also be passed on to the municipality of Maidla so that the local government can meet the needs of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U10	Thank you very much, Kalle Palling. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? Colleague Yana Toom, please reply!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U11	Thank you, Madam President. The rapporteur mentioned my name and also answered my question that Paragraph 13 (1) (2) of the Environmental Charges Act contains guarantees that these fees will be paid from the Equalisation Fund to the municipalities. I opened the State Gazette, and I would like to clarify for the sake of the verbatim report that there is no such paragraph in this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U12	Thank you very much. Now, please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U13	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us Bill 310 amending the Environmental Charges Act. It's a second reading. I would like to begin with the sentence that Mrs Valeri Korb said at first reading of this bill. It sounded like this: 'I therefore fully justify the purposeful appreciation of our natural resources by increasing their right of use through a transparent, publicised and dialogue procedure over a longer period of time. " I also disagree with the way this bill has been drafted and how it is handled. In particular, this needs to be clarified in the light of the additional information that we have received today. For example, it has been said that the draft has been agreed with the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa, but this is not the case. As far as I have information at the community level, this issue has not been discussed. Yes, the draft has been agreed with some municipalities, such as Maidla, but most municipalities have not been involved. That's one clarification. The amendments proposed by the draft are very important. Indeed, how can it be that the government does not need a partnership with local governments? I am speaking more broadly right now, not just those who were in trouble and really need to fill the budget hole that the previous speaker spoke about somehow. If so far, according to § 13 (1) (2) of the Environmental Charges Act, 50% of the mineral mining right fee has been received into the municipal budget of the mining site, only 25% will be received. It is explained that the aim of the amendment is to harmonise the opportunities for local authorities to improve their living environment with fees. At the same time, the situation is very different. Take, for example, the Maidla municipality, where the mine is closed and the rural municipality has a problem. We're gonna take the other one where the mine works, and there's a prospect that it won't be closed in a year or five years. The situation is very different. Who's the loser here? Yes, the rural municipality of Maidla considers that temporarily this budget hole can be closed down, but the other municipalities where the mine exists are practically strategic losers, and losers not only financially. Everyone in this hall knows that for local authorities, mining fees are a very important source of income, especially for those on whose territory mines and careers are located. Once again, there was an explanation that the collection of environmental charges does not involve mandatory tasks for local authorities in the same amount under the law because, according to Chapter 4 of the Land Bill, local authorities do not have the obligation to participate in the remediation of land damaged by mining. In essence, it is again a practice of cutting. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U14	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U15	The major cut-off started with an additional budget for 2009 and today we already have the fourth and fourth draft concerning the reorganisation of the local government revenue base. And once again, these municipalities, where the development perspective is towards independence, are practical losers. The proposed solution is to support the stabilisation of the local government revenue base through the Equalisation Fund, but it is not a strategic solution. Municipalities are even more dependent on central power and can be estimated that the price of this dependence is the right political choice, because really today, for example, the Maidla municipality cannot get out of this position itself. He can only rely on outside help if the state helps. The solution has been found, but this model, like it, drags other municipalities into this model and they are losers. The whole bill weakens the position of the municipality in relations between the local government and the central government, as the government does not have to compensate the local government financially for its negative influence. It's a very big deal. The government can simply reduce the responsibilities of the municipality to the same extent. The local authority remains vulnerable in this situation. In fact, it is strange that local authorities remain so backwards in the field of mineral extraction as if they were not affected at all by this activity. It is not right that local governments with this bill lose the amounts they should receive for the hard work that is taking place on their territory. Finally, I would like to say that in this bill we see the realisation of the ideology of the central government, as in other areas. The aim is one: maximum concentration of resources in your hands and limit the ability of municipalities to own resources. This does not correspond in any way to the principles of the European Charter for Local Government. The Centre Party does not support this bill and proposes to interrupt the second reading of Bill 310 of the Environmental Charges Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U16	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft law. The proposal of the Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading has just arrived, and we must vote on this fine proposal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U17	Madam President, I would like to ask for a five-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U18	Great, thank you! Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U19	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of Bill 310 on Amendment to the Environmental Charges Act. Please vote! 20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of bill 310 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U20	The next item is the second reading of the Bill 283 on Amendment to the Law on Safety at Sea, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Tõniste, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the proposals received for second reading at three meetings. At its meeting on 20 November, the members of the Commission were given access to all the proposals and other submissions received on the draft, as well as the views expressed by the initiator on the proposals. The consensus decided to send the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a on 5 December and continue the discussion of the proposals at the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 26 November. On 26 November, some of the amendments received were voted through and decided by consensus to vote on the amendments concerning the rates and concessions of waterways at the meeting of the Commission on 3 December. At its meeting on 3 December, the Commission launched a lock on the reduction in the fees for waterways compared to the original version and set the new deadline for the entry into force of the draft on 1 July 2013. The draft has also passed the language. The Governing Commission adopted the following decisions: to propose the termination of the second reading of the draft and, once the second reading of the draft 283 is completed, to carry out the third reading on 12 December 2012 with the proposal to adopt the draft as a law. It was also decided that if the second reading of the draft was interrupted during the plenary session of the Riigikogu, it would be proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 3 working days from the day on which the reading was discontinued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U22	Thank you very much, Mr Tõniste. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U23	Good performer! I didn't notice exactly, but I guess the report didn't mention that the deadline for the entry into force of the law was July 1, 2013. If my memory isn't fooled, then at first there was a second deadline for entry into force. What caused it to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U24	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U25	At first it was 1 January, then it was 1 April and finally the Commission decided by a large majority to set the deadline of 1 July 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U26	Dear waitress, Several improvements have improved the situation for some ships, but the price increase for bulk carriers and so-called other vessels remains high enough. Vladimir Volokhonski, Chairman of the Board of DBT AS, has promised on the columns of Äripäev that there will be long trials ahead. How do you assess whether it would be possible to interrupt the procedure and further work on this draft? Do we really need these long trials?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U27	The decision to interrupt is in the hands of this hall. However, anyone who feels that their rights have been violated may appeal to the courts. This opportunity is also available to this gentleman. However, our committee did not have the impression that this threat was very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U28	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U29	Good performer! My question relates to the question of Heimar Leng. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed to change the date of entry into force of the draft and, in this respect, the fees will be paid by the vessels in the coming year according to two systems: the old one first, 31 March and 1 April 2013 under the new one. Is the launch of the new system from April 2013 sufficient to prevent the shipping sector from being disturbed by the change in charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U30	The new system will take effect on 1 July 2013. It was clarified that there would be no double taxation since the old law was in force until 1 July.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U31	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U32	Good Commission waitress! I am very pleased that the Committee on Economic Affairs took this debate seriously in the Riigikogu at first reading, and I hope that the opposition will also have a small role to play here in reducing these charges. But it was as if you did not say whether anyone in the Commission was opposed to reducing these charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U33	Two members of the opposition opposed the proposed date.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U34	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U35	Good waitress! My question comes from the deadline for the entry into force of the law. It is good practice in the logistics and transport sectors that any increase in charges above 10% per year must be known in advance for at least one year. And if the charges are raised by more than 10%, then they have to be done exponentially, even over several years. The question is this: is this haste due to next year's budget and the amounts planned for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U36	The Chancellor of Justice pointed out that six months could also be sufficient time. I would say that this is not a matter of haste, that the costs and benefits will be balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U37	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U38	Dear waitress, Waterway charges shall be charged for the use of navigational management, icebreaking and information services and infrastructure installed on the waterway to ensure safety. Can you give us information on the percentage of each of these four factors?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U39	The overall increase in fees is 1.8 times. Tankers give one third of it, passenger and ro-ro ships also one third and other ships then the last third.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U40	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U41	Good waitress! When this draft was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs for the first time, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications said that the draft had been agreed with stakeholders. However, looking at the opinions that have come to light on the draft, it must be said that there is, however, a lack of coordination. However, I am interested in the current state of affairs. Has this draft text, which the Commission has submitted to us for a second reading, been agreed with stakeholders, and have their opinions been taken into account? Or is it only after the law has been passed and entered into force or, as my good penguin has just expressed its suspicion, perhaps even at the court table?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U42	The Economic Commission has met stakeholders several times. As it turned out, there are very different opinions among them, even from the wall to the wall. But, as far as possible, their views have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U43	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U44	Good waitress! During the debate in the Commission, the question arose as to the extent to which this final maximum and minimum increase still exists for the different types of ships. I would like to make it clear here: have you made it clear to yourself which ships have the highest increase in fees and which ones have the lowest? Maybe some of the ships get even smaller on the waterway charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U45	The smallest increase in remuneration is on passenger ships and the largest in wooden cargo ships and large tankers, but they were finally met, it was reduced during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U46	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U47	Honourable waitress! One amendment is that the maximum fee per voyage is EUR 20000 for tankers, EUR 12000 for cruise ships and EUR 15000 for other vessels. Explain, please, how these sums were formed! Why such figures? Is there a formula or what's behind it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U48	Yes, the calculations were carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and have also been discussed with interest groups. That's how it's come.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U49	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U50	Dear waitress, The amendments made by the Economic Commission led to a significant decrease in the rate of waterway charges. I ask how much impact this will have on the state budget over the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U51	The last change was EUR 2 million. I am pleased that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has promptly solved this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U52	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U53	Good waitress! Indeed, after the first reading, the Committee on Economic Affairs reduced the rates proposed by the Government somewhat, but it is known that port owners, entrepreneurs, are still not satisfied with the draft. My question to you is this: how much do you think the adoption of this law could make Estonia's competitiveness and the business environment worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U54	Any price increase will have a direct impact on someone, but it is very difficult to speculate on it. At the same time, it is known that the draft will put pressure on the reduction of port charges, so far they have been very large. All in all, the quality of the service is improving and it should be a pleasure for those who want to visit our ports. So I believe that the draft does not actually worsen the business environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U55	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U56	Dear waitress, I think I misjudged my first question. We missed out on what was scary: I asked one question, the answer was something completely different. I was talking about the four main components of the waterway charges, I mentioned them, and I asked them what percentage of each component of the waterway charges is. The second question I am asking right now is that if we increase these charges, it will be with which component in mind. Where has this enormous increase in quality occurred: in navigation, in the provision of icebreaking or information services, or in infrastructure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U57	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U58	The main increase comes for the provision of icebreaking services, which accounts for almost half of these fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U59	In answer to my previous question, you made it easy to say that everyone has the right to go to court. Terminals of the Tallinn Port are certainly built with bank loans and their investors are much further away than Estonia. There is a global business in the maritime business, and this draft will significantly deteriorate the situation of investors. They are sure to announce in the wide world that investments in Estonia are not protected, that the economic environment in Estonia is not stable. In my opinion, it will cause much more damage than maybe a few tons if such information disperses. Don't you think we should keep working on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U60	National fees have been quite low in Estonia compared to other countries, and I believe that those who visit our ports want, first and foremost, a decent quality. It is often the case that no one says thank you afterwards for the small fees, but if there is a desire to raise, there is always criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U61	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U62	Good Tõnis! You mentioned those types of ships that have been subject to higher and lower rates of fees, but I would like to know more specific figures, either times or percentages. What are these numbers? Is the highest growth fourfold or sixfold, as was the case in the original draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U63	The highest slope is fourfold.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U64	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U65	Good waitress! You said that, compared with other countries, these fees are now equal. It would be very interesting to know what is happening in neighbouring countries. What are these fees for tankers and cruise ships, for example, in Latvia and Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U66	I will give you the example of Finland. In Finland, the state receives 60-80% of the port fees in the form of waterway charges, and we only received 10%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U67	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U68	Dear waitress, I will ask you about § 1 (13) of the bill. This point amends the rates of the waterway charge. For the second reading, the unit price of 1A or vessels of the corresponding ice class has been reduced by two euro cents, while the unit price of the 1A Super or the corresponding ice class is not reduced. For what reasons has such a decision been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U69	I think it's based on the whole picture. In fact, on passenger ships, rates do not increase if we compare them with other ships, or if they increase minimally. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U70	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U71	Good colleague! The amendment will take effect on 1 July next year. I mean, it's an odd deadline. Are the agreements already signed valid until 1 July? If so, what will happen to these contracts after 1 July? Do we have to re-create them? And, in general, how do you assess the situation that is in this particular sphere in our ports right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U72	That is why we have Amendment 13, which is necessary in order to avoid double taxation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U73	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U74	Dear waitress, I'll continue with my last question. 1A For ships with a Super Ice Class, the unit price shall be EUR 0,28, for 1A Ice Class ships EUR 0,30, for vessels with or without other ice class, the unit price shall be EUR 0,35. How were these rates calculated? Don't you think that ships with a large ice class, which essentially keep the port ice-free, should receive a higher discount?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U75	They actually get a higher discount because they don't pay for more than 60 times. That's where they get the line. This change has been proposed by Tallink and the Estonian Shipowners' Association and coordinated with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U76	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U77	Good waitress! The 2013 draft state budget already includes higher fees. The Commission has sought to compromise the wishes of interested parties and has significantly reduced these fees and postponed the deadlines. I have this question: on what account did the Commission decide to provide this relief? How is this compensated for in the 2013 budget, and is this also in line with our state budget law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U78	The Committee on Economic Affairs made its decision and the Committee on Monetary Affairs found cover for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U79	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U80	I wanted to ask whether this is a normal practice in your committee, that you first make a decision, and then the problem with the Committee on Monetary Affairs is to find a source of cover. Perhaps we could follow this in another committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U81	This is not normal, but such a solution was foreseen and the Committee on Monetary Affairs was able to take this into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U82	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U83	Rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs. Could such an increase in rates be planned in the state budget if the law had not yet been passed? Is that legal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U84	We are still voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U85	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U86	Finally, I ask you: what do you think, as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, about the effect of increasing the rates on the Estonian business environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U87	Good colleagues, any more questions for the waitress? Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U88	You have to look at the whole thing here. Those who spend should also cover this cost. They have always wanted a high-quality service and, in order to ensure this, there is a need to align the rates of charges. And that's what this bill does.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U89	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Law 283 amending the Law on Maritime Safety has received enough attention today and has aroused passion. This has also been discussed several times in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu before sending it to second reading. The discussions were so intense and exhausting that the rapporteur from the Commission got tired in the meantime and the next one had to take over the baton. As a result of this long work, the Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, has managed to reduce somewhat the Jesuit plan to give the maritime cluster, if not a death blow, at least to send this reanimation. After all, we remember the Minister's assurances in the Commission before sending the draft to first reading that there are no problems with cruise ships at all, that companies have been negotiated, that they are in agreement with the changes and that there is hardly any rise in the rates. I also spoke about this here at first reading in my speech. The vivid examples given by Estma, a ship agency, spoke a completely different language. The total ineffectiveness of the Minister's words is confirmed by the amendment made by the Commission, which reduced the unit cost of the cruise ship from EUR 0.2 to EUR 0.1, i.e. 50% in the first year and from 1 January 2014 it will be EUR 0.12, i.e. 60% of the price increase proposed by the Minister. Nevertheless, the maximum increase in unit costs is still 3.64 times for certain types and conditions of ships, which is abnormal. One positive change made by the Commission, in the light of the amendment proposed by the Centre Party Group, is the flat-rate postponement of the water charges for passenger ships engaged in regular voyages to an annual period, which will certainly make it much easier for companies to manage their cash flows. According to the original solution, the annual waterway charges should have been paid during the first two months of the year for ships engaged in regular voyages calling at the port once a day. Unfortunately, the Commission did not find the majority of support in the proposal to reduce the waterway charges for 1A Super ice class ships. 1A Super ice class ships practically do not use the icebreaker service. On the contrary, passenger ships who regularly visit the port with this ice class help to keep the iced roads open and, by definition, provide the icebreaking service by paying for it in accordance with the bill. Absurd, of course, given that such a ship is 10% more expensive than normal, because the metal in its shell is thicker in the ice belt and the main machinery is more powerful so that the ship can cope under difficult conditions. Even more expensive is the ship's operation, because more powerful main machines and, of course, icebreaking require more fuel. However, the unit cost of the 1A ice-class vessels' fees for waterways was reduced by only two centuries in the Commission, from 0.32 to 0,30, which is just as unfair as in the previous example. On the positive side, the Commission's amendment to reduce the maximum level of waterway charges per journey from EUR 40000 to EUR 20000 for tankers, from EUR 15000 to EUR 10000 for cruise ships and from EUR 20000 to EUR 15000 for other vessels could also be highlighted. Nevertheless, the maximum possible price increase remains high enough. Of course, lower price increases are possible for certain sizes and types of ships. As tankers are generally of high capacity and carry a very large quantity of goods at the same time, their price sensitivity is reduced. The so-called "other ships" carrying other goods, including bulk cargo, remain a sharp problem for this draft. Vladimir Volokhonski, Chairman of the Board of DBT AS, has said through Äripäev that, despite the alleviations proposed by the Economic Commission, this bill is still stabbing the back of the government. 'That can't be called relief. Waterway charges are still rising 450% for us. It doesn't matter whether it's 600% or 450%,' said Volohonski. It also argued that, therefore, investors would rather turn their backs and go to other ports and would probably now start a series of cases due to these changes. I would like to stress that there is a global business in maritime business, where trade flows can quite easily change the origins and arrivals of their course. In the same region, this is no problem at all. Fertilizers, for example, can also be transported via the Port of Kotka in Finland or via the Port of Ust-Luga in Russia. Flows of goods leave our ports, dividends are lost, employment is reduced and everything that comes with them. A very important fact is that large investments have been made in port terminals, which are now turning to the minus. As investors are also global in global business, our legislative amendment gives a strong signal about Estonia as a country where there is no firm investment protection and where there is an unstable economic environment. And this signal is going to be very far and high, because this message from reality and passed on through specific investors is, over and over again, stronger and more credible than the empty boasting of our governments about how good the economic environment we have. I would put the word 'good' in quotes in the light of this bill. Although the Estonian Centre Party is currently not responsible for governing the state, we are seriously concerned about the future of the Estonian economic environment. That is why we propose that the second reading of bill 283 be interrupted and that we look further for ways to prevent investors from being deterred and to keep current trade flows in our ports and railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U90	Thank you. Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A month ago, when the draft was at first reading, the Social Democrats proposed that it be rejected. Unfortunately, because of the coalition's votes, our request was rejected. Last month has been a series of misunderstandings and confusions in the discussions. Its sign is also that the Fatherland and Res Publica Association exchanged a waitress from the Commission. From time to time, the Commission did not understand what was really being achieved or who wanted to show the place to whom. Today it can be said that the draft has not significantly improved with the changes that have been made. Well, don't like such superficial and above leg lawmaking! The Economic Commission, after its first reading, somewhat reduced the level of the rates offered by the government, but the coalition is still planning a serious tax increase, which will definitely worsen Estonia's international competitiveness and business environment. The sharp increase in waterway charges will not only give rise to repercussions for the maritime and transit sectors, but also for a number of other sectors of the economy, including shipbuilding and tourism. Unthoughtfully raising the fees serves the interests of one-off execution of the Treasury, but it is feared that the result will be the opposite, as some of the owners of the goods will abandon the services of Estonian ports. According to the Socialists, good legislative practice runs counter to the rapid enforcement of new charges. Tax increases must be known to businesses at least one year in advance. The implementation of the draft has been postponed from 1 January to 1 July 2013, but we do not believe that this is the correct solution either. I repeat what I said at first reading: the course of the debate has not given sufficient assurance that we will make the right decision by adopting the draft in this Chamber as a law. As the draft causes serious damage to the Estonian investment climate and the business environment, the Social Democratic Party Group, like the Central Party Group, proposes to interrupt the second reading. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U92	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Hey, sweethearts, let's try to forget for a moment that part of us is opposition, part of the coalition! Let's just think about what we're doing. Consider this example. The head of the educational institution, the headmaster, puts a new elective into his school programme for the next academic year. He puts it in the school's budget and starts looking for a teacher, not knowing how many people they want, what kind of pay they need, what kind of technical resources they need. What would we call such a leader? At best, an idiot. When someone plans their family's budget and takes the phone credit first, and then they start thinking about what's in the store and what's in it, it's worse. However, if such a thing happens in the Riigikogu, it is as if normal. Hey, why is this happening all the time?! Why do we have a huge fire every year in November and December? We will receive the draft state budget and, after it has already passed two readings, we will have to discuss the components that make up the state budget. And we have to approve the laws that are offered to us, or rather the coalition, we do not have to approve, no matter what we think of them. We only have to accept them because some minister put these components into the budget. Why is this happening every year? For the second year in a row, I have this feeling that every autumn of the year, somewhere in October, we have a new government. The faces are the same, but the activity is such a panick, urgent, then it concerns the law amending the Land Tax and Income Tax Act or the Maritime Safety Act. Aren't you ashamed? There's a huge bunch of officials, the ministries are full of people, but we have to panic here to solve the problems that are being caused to us by the people who have been appointed by our will. There is one very beautiful sentence that claims that every government is like a baby: on the one hand, a huge appetite and, on the other hand, total irresponsibleness. But how much can it suffer? The Committee on Monetary Affairs recognises two standards, two types of discussions. One is used when it comes to opposition drafts and amendments. Then every cent, let alone every euro, must be certified, otherwise it cannot. As a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I cannot help but wonder what absurdity I am living in. I was chairman of the council for 8.5 years. If I were to present a city budget for next year to the council, which would contain elements based on some regulations or decisions that have not yet been adopted, I think that not only the opposition would be dissatisfied. Other structures would also be interested in this. I didn't come here to stall time. I just don't understand why we live in this absurdity and try to change it. Sweethearts, it's in your hands! Put your ministers to work, after all! How long can this situation last? How many of us are they running here with their frying dishes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U94	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Good fellows, now I'm asking for your help! We are going to examine the amendments to Bill 283. A total of 14 amendments have been received. The first amendment has been received from the lead committee and the Commission's position is to take full account of it. Valeri Korb, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U95	Okay, thanks. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U96	The Estonian Centre Party Group requests a ten-minute break before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U97	Good fellows! The break taken by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 41 members of the Riigikogu in favour, there is no one against and 2 members of the Riigikogu are impartial. The proposal was supported. We will go to Amendment 2, tabled by the lead committee. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U98	Thank you! Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U99	Mr President, I ask you to vote on this proposal, and before that we want to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U100	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. We are on to the second amendment. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 39 members of the Riigikogu, 0 and 2 abstentions, the proposal was supported. Dear colleagues, before we go to the third amendment, I have a very big request to you that we keep quiet in the House during the vote. Amendment 3 This has been submitted by the lead committee. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U101	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U102	Mr President, I ask you to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U103	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, there are no respondents and 1 member of the Riigikogu is impartial. The proposal was supported. The fourth amendment is made by the commission. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U104	Mr President, I ask you to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U105	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U106	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The amendment was supported. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is to take into account the substance. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U107	Mr President, I ask you to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U108	Thank you! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U109	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 10), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 35 votes to 35, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the commission. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U110	Mr President, I ask you to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U111	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U112	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 44 members of the Riigikogu, with 0 and 3 abstentions. We will move on to the seventh amendment tabled by the lead committee. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U113	Mr President, I ask you to vote on this proposal and before this five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U114	Thank you. I would also ask for this request in writing. Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 7, which has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Please vote! 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed and 2 were impartial. The proposal was supported. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U116	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U117	Please, five minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 8, which has been tabled and taken fully into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Please vote! 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has disregarded it. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U119	Madam President, I ask you to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U120	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U121	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please vote! 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 35 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 10 has been tabled and taken fully into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has disregarded it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U122	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please vote! 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 32 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12 has been tabled and taken fully into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U124	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 12, which has been tabled and taken fully into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Please vote! 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 14. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U126	Please vote on Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U127	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 14, which has been tabled and taken fully into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 6 against and 5 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. Two proposals from two political groups have arrived at the Board of the Riigikogu. Both the Estonian Central Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group have a proposal to interrupt the second reading of bill 283. Mr Simson, I am not finished yet! I would like to put this proposal to the vote. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U128	Would you like to put it to a vote, or would you like to put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U129	I'd love to, but I don't know what you want to ask me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U130	If you want to put this proposal to a vote and you do, I will ask for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U131	Excellent! Thank you, Kadri Simson. You saved me very well from this situation. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U132	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Social Democratic Party to interrupt the second reading of Bill 283 of the Law amending the Law on Maritime Safety. Please vote! 24 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of bill 283 is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U133	We begin the first reading of Bill 325 of Amendment to the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I invite the honourable Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U134	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The draft amends the provisions of § 72 of the Health Insurance Act, which regulate the limits of the visit fee and the daily wage of the bed. The draft introduces new limits on the visit fee and the bed-day fee, and there is no intention to change the procedure for the payment of these fees. The Ministry was proposed to increase the fees by the Association of Hospitals, which based its proposal on the effects of the consumer price index. The need for more income to finance health care has also resulted in an increase in the pay of healthcare workers as a result of the medical strike. The new threshold for home visits and special outpatient medical care is set at EUR 5. The current threshold is EUR 3 20 cents. The new limit for bed pay is set at 2.50; the current limit is EUR 1.60. The introduction of fees, I stress, is the right of the health care provider, not the obligation, and their introduction depends on the needs and organisation of the service provider. Thus, the law lays down the limits, not the amount, of these charges. On the basis of the above, I would ask for the draft to be supported and properly dealt with in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U135	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the questions. Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U136	Dear Minister of Defence! If the Minister of Defence is speaking about health insurance today, will the Minister of Social Affairs be talking about extending the foreign missions of the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U137	I welcome Parliament on behalf of Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and regret the fact that Estonia must be in Brussels today because of its duties as a member of the European Union. That's why I'm replacing him.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U138	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U139	Good waitress! It is strange that the former Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee takes such a superficial view of the amendment that he says one or two sentences on the draft, which results in so much increase in people's own participation. It is also strange that you can even profit from a strike by doctors and nurses, thereby justifying a rather large increase in the visit fee and the bed-day fee. After all, the Doctors' Association has said that there has actually been a lie, because the advance agreement that ended the strike stated very clearly that money would be taken from the health insurance fund and the state budget, not from the patients' pockets, in order to meet medical requirements. Of course, you played this unpopular decision into the hospital union's mouth. Why don't you tell people the truth? Why don't you want to admit it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U140	It is true, as the good questioner pointed out, that on 2 November the Association of Estonian Hospitals addressed the Government with a proposal to adjust the limits of these fees. Once again, the limits. This gives the health care provider the right to set these fees within the limits specified. There is no doubt that there is also a connection between the agreement to raise medical workers' salaries and the government certainly welcomes this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U141	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U142	Mr. Secretary of Defense! On Tuesday, when we discussed the draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act, it had to be reported by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, who was on mission. His replacement in the system of replacing the members of the Government of the Republic is Kristen Michal, who failed to arrive. Instead, there was Hanno Pevkur in the remote control, who said that the Water Act affects the Ministry of Social Affairs more than the Ministry of Justice. Now you are here with the draft amending the Health Insurance Act. Please explain why there is no official replacement for Hanno Pevkur, Jürgen Ligi! The increase in fees should be more relevant to the Minister of Finance than to the Minister of Defence. Or are you personally a great advocate of tax increases and you therefore took on the task of defending this bill here and giving substantive answers why it is necessary to collect additional revenue from patients' pockets into the state budget if you have over 9.5 million euros in roofing money, which could be shared on political grounds?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U143	To be honest, there is a logistical reason for this. We underestimated your ability to delay Parliament's work. We thought that these things would come to the table at night when I had to take part in the debate on the following points to be discussed as a representative of the government. As a younger man, I would have been happy to allow an older colleague to enjoy the peace of the night, so I think of Jürgen as the first replacement of the Minister of Social Affairs. But right now, I'm standing before you and defending this government bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U144	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U145	Minister, thank you very much. If it was decided to increase the visit fee for home visits and outpatient special medical care and the daily bed allowance, this could have been avoided if the increase in medical pay had come from the undistributed profits of the Health Insurance Fund in previous years. The Health Insurance Fund now has two reserve funds: one is the undistributed profits of previous years and the other is the reserve fund. So what are they used for, and what is their point? How do they differ? Both undistributed profits and reserve funds are kept, but why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U146	Indeed, the Health Insurance Fund has results and reserves, as the law requires. Arrangements for the use of reserves have also been established. In the case of the Health Insurance Fund, they are intended to ensure that the social health insurance system is ensured in Estonia in the event of a possible change in tax receipts. During the economic crisis, we saw that even when the current budget of the Health Insurance Fund was negative, it was possible to do so. But I would correct you. You said there were new rates in place. I would stress that these are still in place. We are now talking about a proposal by the Hospitals Association to introduce new limits on the visit fee and the bed-day fee. The government has supported this proposal as a draft. At the same time, I would also like to stress that many healthcare providers have exempted chronic patients and other risk groups from paying visit and bedday fees in the current legal area. Also, not all health care providers apply the maximum rates allowed by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U147	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U148	Good waitress! If this increase in the daily and visit fees had been based on an increase in the cost of living index, I do not think that there would have been any protests against it at all. The proposal would be fully accepted. Now I think we're talking about different world views. In the world, you probably think that the smartest thing is to take the missing money out of people's pockets, both high electric excise duty and now higher bed and visit fees. To tell you that there is no money in the state budget is, in my opinion, a very foolish thing to say. Will it be cheaper for a person to go to a doctor on time and get immediate help or delay his or her visit to a doctor? Late treatment is likely to be much more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U149	The cheapest is undoubtedly both for the person himself and for the health care system and for society at all if they do not get sick. By reducing risk behaviour, continuous prevention and control, it should be achieved that a person who may even be in a risk group does not, however, become ill. If you ask whether people should visit a doctor regularly and have them examined, as is the advice of health care professionals, the answer can certainly only be in the affirmative. As regards the change in the consumer price index, I would point out that the Association of Hospitals has indicated that the consumer price index increased by 44.2% between 2002 and 2011. Throughout this period, these limits have remained the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U150	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U151	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I found in the explanatory memorandum a sentence that, in the area of the Ministry of Defence's administration, when the draft comes into force, there will be an additional cost of around EUR 6 000 per year in terms of ensuring health services. You're the right person to ask: where does this extra cost come from at the Department of Defense and why doesn't other ministries have it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U152	In the case of the Ministry of Defence, the situation is that in our area of government, we cover the cost of health care for conscripts. If a uniform carrier has to ask a doctor for help, the Department of Defense will reimburse these costs. That is why an additional cost has to be foreseen. We predict that healthcare providers may increase their prices at the maximum permitted levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U153	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U154	Actually, I have the same question as before, because I didn't get an answer. I ask you again why you're taking advantage of the situation right now. You are saying that this increase in fees is as if a strike is involved, that wages need money and you take it out of the patient's pocket. Why aren't you fulfilling the strike's advance agreement, which said for sure that the money didn't come out of the patients' pockets? Why don't you admit that you've long wanted to increase patients' ownership, and now you found a good excuse to need more money to pay? In the end, anyway, why are you holding up now and not telling me honestly how things are? Why has Minister Pevkur, whom you represent here, not been honest? I mean, you guys have been negotiating, why are they doing this now and accusing the medical team?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U155	There is no doubt that the agreement reached with the Hospital Association on the increase in the salaries of health care workers has also motivated this draft. I don't see any harm in the fact that the pay increase for health professionals is taking place. This is the result of a very serious and difficult labour dispute, which must be accepted. As far as the adjustment of the thresholds is concerned, there is no doubt that these fees will generate additional revenues for health care providers, i.e. hospitals. That is why the Hospital Association has proposed this. There is no emptiness in the money, all the necessary money comes either from the pockets of the users of the service or, in general, from the taxpayers or from the state budget. There's no money coming from anywhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U156	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U157	Good minister! There's been a lot of breaks here in the last few weeks, and I'm starting to become the right-hand side of these breaks and thinking. The problem is that, in any case, the personal costs of a doctor's strike are increasing. Hasn't the government discussed the problem of financing medicine that you have on the table all the time, that suddenly we should switch to a system like this, that we are going to lower social security contributions a lot, that we ensure that hospitals exist and that we help fertilizers, but, generally speaking, people who are able to work should start buying health insurance? Doctors would, figuratively speaking, switch to the business sector. Maybe one day this shit will stop, that we'll always have to carve something, deal with a problem. Let's make such a clear, normal capitalist system, and it's okay!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U158	I support the fact that Estonia will continue to have a system of solidarity insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U159	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U160	Dear Chairman of the IRL! My question is specific. You found EUR 9.5 million in the budget, which you shared with some foundations that have not yet been registered and some NGOs with unwritten political decisions. That's the money you've been wanting to hand over to whatever you want. Why could this money not have been used for these costs and prevented painful price increases for patients? After all, we could have left no burden on people who need home visits, outpatient specialist care, or even hospital care. That money was there, you just handed it over randomly with political decisions. How do you justify such conduct?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U161	Parliament is making the budget, and I am absolutely sure that Parliament, despite the difficulties that have arisen here in time, will be able to make a very good budget. The entire state budget is a political budget and it is not possible to mention one or the other expenditure that would be non-political. As regards the proposal to increase the threshold for the visit fee and the bed-day fee, the circumstances which the Association indicated in its proposal relate to the fact that the thresholds for these services have already been in force unchanged since their introduction on 1 October 2002. There is no doubt that the visit fee and the bed-day fee are additional revenues for health care providers, so that they can cover their costs, which are not covered by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund's health services price caps. That is a self-evident fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-06_U162	Thank you very much, Minister. The time for our hearing is over. We'll continue the discussion tomorrow, see you at 1:00. Welcome back to the Riigikogu on Friday! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
