ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U1	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Act amending the Law on the Financial Management of a Local Government Unit and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Urve Tiidus, Member of the Monetary Commission, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U2	Good evening. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The second reading of draft law 311 initiated by the Government of the Republic took place at the ordinary meeting of the Monetary Commission on 4 December. By the deadline of the amendments, by 3 December, five amendments were tabled: four from the Group of the Estonian Central Party and one from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which prepared it in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the leaders of the Estonian Cities Association and also the CEO of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments Ott Kasuri were present. Before discussing the amendments, the Committee on Monetary Affairs heard about the draft opinion of the local governments. The first amendment concerned the technical part of the draft. This was linked to the financing of water projects by local authorities and the possibility of using EIB loan money for this purpose. The three amendments were alternative proposals for the regulation of the credit limit from the Central Party Group. The last proposal concerned one provision of the Local Government Organisation Act, i.e. the adoption of the budget by the Council and the inability to act. The procedural decisions were as follows: to send the draft to the plenary session on 7 December (by 6, against 5), to propose the termination of the second reading of the draft (by 6 and against 5) and to send the draft to third reading on 12 December when the second reading is closed (by 6, against 4 and abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U3	Thank you. We'll get to the questions and answers. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U4	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I am pleased that the rapporteur is one of the former heads of government who should understand what is happening in local governments. I am asking about the intervention of the central government in the financial autonomy of the local government. I am thinking of the same credit limit here, the reduction in the tax rate from 11.93 to 11.4, the same way the abolition of several local taxes, including sales tax and boat tax. The Supreme Court has pointed out that the central government should not treat local governments in this way. What is your personal position as former Mayor of Kuressaare? Has the central government been unduly involved in the financial autonomy of local authorities or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U5	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U6	I understand that today we are discussing what the Commission discussed among ourselves, but my personal view is that it is not. Also, this extension of the loan limit in order to prohibit the taking of new loans by local authorities with a high debt burden is the least restrictive of their financial autonomy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U7	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, waitress, former colleague and mayor. I think we understand this issue in the same way, and I ask if this rule should work for everyone in the same way. After all, there are municipalities whose capacity would also allow for increased borrowing and this limitation could become an obstacle to their future development. Maybe you should have handled this subject differently. Do you have a good proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U8	Thank you, dear questioner. If you hit everybody with one rod, I think it's kind of fairer. This topic was on the Commission's agenda for this debate when the leaders of local government associations were met. It must be said that this extension of the restriction, i.e. six municipalities with a net debt of more than 100%, affects 226 municipalities. Perhaps this extension of the net debt limit will be better tolerated by more able municipalities, so-called "in fact, this debt ratio has been well reduced over the last three years, when these restrictions have been on top, and in the next few years, this existing limit will also be reached. In essence, it affects the individual richest local authorities. In most municipalities, net debt remains below 60% and has the capacity to borrow. Of course, there are also local authorities that do not have this will and capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U9	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The current draft law will leave this loan limit to local authorities for several years to come. Can local authorities ever expect this loan limit to be removed after the entry into force of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U11	Thanks for asking. I can't talk about hope right now, but it's clear that this loan limit will be extended until 2016. I'll be honest with you, it depends very much on what life will bring in the future. However, I would like to stress that most local authorities will not be prevented from really taking forward this extension of the loan limit or, for example, from borrowing for self-financing during the next funding period of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U12	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U13	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I ask: if this law enters into force, will any distinctions be ruled out? Let me give you an example. Let's say that the municipality could get a million euros for the investment and, in order to spend it properly, it would need to take some part of the loan. I understand that if this law enters into force, it will prevent any borrowing, as the 60% limit would be exceeded.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U14	I can give you the following example. In the case of one of the municipalities with the highest net indebtedness, the situation is that in the next two years it will be able to reduce this debt so much that it can already finance co-financing by the municipality from its budget revenue, for example. So it's not too bad, and 200 local governments have free borrowing capabilities. And all those who so-called cross-border have already reduced their debt burden and in the next few years they will fit within the necessary limits, some already this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U15	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U16	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I will continue this discussion with my question. Perhaps, in previous years, there was not much investment need; there was more small repairs. But sooner or later, the standards will change, and especially those municipalities that have many so-called municipal objects will have to repair them anyway. Do you think that municipal development plans could also be the basis for looking at the sums that are really needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U17	Thanks for asking. These amounts are actually known because local authorities have had to make a budget strategy for four years. However, in particular, the Commission did not discuss the subject on which you were asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U18	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Urve Tiidus. Any requests? Let's open the negotiations. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U19	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue with this subject, on which I asked the good waitress Urve Tiidus, i.e. the financial autonomy of the local authorities and the intervention of the central government in financial autonomy. Among other things, the rate of income tax was reduced from 11,93% to 11,4% in 2008 and local taxes were abolished, which is one of the potential sources of income for local governments. I'm talking about sales tax and boat tax. With the abolition of these two taxes, they tried to do so to Tallinn, the capital of Estonia, but actually lost several other municipalities who had introduced sales tax earlier than the city of Tallinn. This week, the issue of land tax and the abolition of the tax on homeland has been under discussion several times, in fact, the state is leaving part of the income lost from the abolition of the tax on homeland without compensating the local authorities and the same issue of the credit limit, which is the content of the current draft. The Centre Party Group believes that the state cannot and must not act against the Constitution. This has also been pointed out by the CLRAE body of the Council of Europe, which stands up for local authorities. The Supreme Court has also pointed out the same question. In this context, the Estonian Central Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Act amending the Financial Management Act and the Local Government Organisation Act 311. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U20	Thank you. Any more negotiating requests? There's no more calls. There have been five amendments to this draft law, and we will go to the examination of these amendments. Amendment 1 Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U21	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U22	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U23	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 1, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is a proposal by the commission of responsibility to take full account of. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with one abstention. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 2: Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U24	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U25	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U26	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall vote on the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 3 Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U27	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U28	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U29	I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has not taken account of it. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U30	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U31	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U32	I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has not taken account of it. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U33	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U34	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U35	I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have examined all the amendments. However, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the Act amending the Financial Management Act and the Local Government Organisation Act 311 and we must vote through it. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U36	Thank you. Five minutes of intermission before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U37	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U38	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to interrupt the second reading of the Act amending the Law on the Financial Management of the Local Government Unit and the Act on the Organisation of Local Government 311. Please vote! 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Thus, the second reading of Bill 311 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U39	Ladies and gentlemen, Our last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Riigikogu, will be a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U40	Good evening, morning, or midnight, whatever it is, ladies and gentlemen. President-in-Office of the Council. You have before you a bill amending the procedures for indexing pensions at the Police and Border Guard Board. The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft at two sessions, first on 3 December and then on 4 December. The difference between these two sessions was that, at the meeting on 4 December, we decided to put this draft on the agenda for today's session and, in principle, we did not make any substantive changes, no decisions. The purpose of bill 326 is to ensure equal treatment of persons among police pensioners. From 2010 onwards, the pension index will index the pensions of police officers designated under the Police Services Act or the Border Guard Services Act. However, the indexation proposed by this draft concerns those pensioners whose pension has been calculated or calculated on the basis of the Police and Border Guard Act. According to the draft law, pensions paid under the Police and Border Guard Act, like other state pensions, will be indexed to the pension index established by the Government of the Republic under the State Pension Insurance Act. The salary on which the pension is calculated consists, as so far, of two components: the rate of pay and the level of remuneration. The person may still choose which rate is more favourable to him, either from his last post or from the last five years of his service, at which he earned a salary corresponding to a grade for at least 12 consecutive months. What else to add? In principle, it can be said that there are currently a little over 1 500 people in the Police and Border Guard Board who receive a pension according to the rules of the indexed pension and 195 people who receive a pension according to the grade, i.e. whose pension is not indexed. That's what this bill is changing, that's why these people are being equalized. That would be all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U41	Thank you very much, Mr Randpere. You have questions too. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! My question concerns § 1 (3) of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act. It is stated here that the person receiving the pension is obliged to inform the Social Insurance Board within 10 days of any circumstances leading to the recalculation or non-payment of the pension. I ask what happens if the person receiving the pension does not inform the Social Insurance Board of all the circumstances within 10 days. What does that mean? Is the pension not paid out, or is it paid in the same amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U43	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U44	I'm sure this will lead to some kind of sanction, but I don't know exactly which one.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U45	Thank you. Good colleague! This draft law has been initiated by the Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance. However, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the authors are Valdo Randpere and Marko Pomerants. Please explain how you and your colleagues had such a good idea of launching this bill. Or who started it anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U46	Thank you for a good question. It's kind of like Lennon and McCartney came up with a bunch of songs that we're gonna do together. Marko and I did the same thing with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U47	Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I would like to address you as the rapporteur for the current draft, who has also been elected the first number of his party some time ago. I wonder if you have seen or will see in the future with this bill that the municipal police in Tallinn should benefit from possible special pension schemes. And if you can, can you tell me what you think about Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U49	Thank you, Sven, for a very good question. Firstly, as far as municipal police are concerned, this draft law regulates, however, the pensions of people who are covered by the Ministry of the Interior, the Police and Border Guard Board. That's not where the municipal police are known to belong. However, if you take the other side of the question, how things are in Tallinn, then right now we have a topical state budget issue here. If we compare it with Tallinn's budget, the principle that the budget should be balanced and the loan burden minimal is certainly not applied in Tallinn. This has also led to the result that Tallinn's investment capacity is very, very poor. It's on loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U50	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law lacks a clear overview of the costs and benefits, but this change will certainly affect the financial side. Please tell me if there will be more costs or if there will be fewer! How much money does this bill have to do with becoming a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U52	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U53	Thank you, Mr Kalla, for a very good question. But it is absolutely impossible to answer because, on the one hand, it begins to depend on the fact that, in theory, wages may rise or fall. On the other hand, the pension index affects how much it changes. So it's impossible to say. But in itself, it's probably a zero-sum game in the long run. It is now impossible to say this before it has been done for the first time or for the second time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I wonder how ignorant members of the Riigikogu are who talk about local government issues. The local government must not adopt the budget if the budget is not balanced; that is what the law says. So much for local government. But what I'm asking is, are those 195 policemen whose pension is now calculated according to other methods, ultimately losing their pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U55	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U56	Thank you for a good question. I will respond exactly as Kalev Kallo did, who asked me before that it was actually impossible to say. This depends on whether the salary or index increases more. Firstly, this model of indexation is fair because everyone else has it. Secondly, this model gives some assurance. Look, pay may rise once every three years, but the pension index usually rises every year, though perhaps in a smaller volume.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! If you were unable to answer other questions, please tell me which age group these 195 retired policemen belong to.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U58	Thank you. I assume this is sensitive personal data, so I would rather not go into this area. I really don't know how old these people are. When are you going to get a special pension? These are the people who have retired since 2010.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U59	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U60	Thank you. You said you and Marko made a very good bill. But why have the factions been brought here as initiators? Which one did it anyway? And there's also a hint that the Ministry made this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U61	Marika! Now, if you really want to know how it was, Marko and I got together here the other night and made a bill. I can't tell which one did it more or which faction was on or off in this respect. It's a beautiful thing made together. Let's enjoy!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U62	Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U63	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I sincerely say that I very much liked your previous answer to my question that no doubt there will be some sanctions if, within ten days, a person does not know all the facts that lead to the recalculation of his pension. That's why I'm asking you if it makes sense to leave it to the law that a person himself must report any changes or any circumstances relating to him. Does the Social Insurance Board really not have this information so that it can take out its own calculations and make the necessary changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U64	Now, the next question, please. Mr Kalla, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U65	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not a big specialist in pension law, it's a general principle for determining pensions. This is not a specific thing to this section, and in itself there has been some minor change in this regard in the past. I also read the 2009 verbatim report at the time of the last amendment, but I cannot say anything more precisely. It's a complicated thing, this pension law. Most of the time, if you move a rock in one place, you have to move it in another. But after me, Marko Pomerants, who is co-author and who was, by chance, the Minister of the Interior at the very moment that the bill was discussed last time in the Riigikogu, maybe when this police and border guard law was last revised. So ask Marko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! It seems, as you also said in your reply, that you really did do this law the Lennon way and perhaps wanted to do lyrics, but not the law. I do not understand how pleased your colleague Sõerd is with this, that he does not know how much this will cost to the budget. He is not satisfied with any draft legislation if it is not known what it will do to the state budget. So my question is, how could some of your colleagues, who always ask for information on how much this will affect the state budget, be satisfied with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U67	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U68	In fact, I already told you that in the long run, it's probably a zero-sum game. But I can talk about next year. As far as I know, this change doesn't add up. Rather, it saves a little, as the pension index is likely to be 5% lower than the salary increase would have been for these salaries. But this raise isn't every year. So I say that, in the long term, it should simply be about equal principles, not about saving money or spending it more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U69	Thank you. Good colleague! Since this is the first reading of the bill, I have a question about § 106, about the state pension for the police officer and his family members. Could you expand our knowledge of family members?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U70	I'm afraid I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U71	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U72	It's not a waste.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U73	Thank you, Madam President. I dare waste my one question on a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U74	You told Toobal it was a waste when he asked two questions. Since you got into a bit of trouble with this retirement issue and honestly admitted that you weren't a big expert on it, I'm asking which one of you was Lennon and which one was McCartney. I understand Marko Pomerants put together the text, and yours was music. Didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U75	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U76	Thank you, Yana! Yeah, it could be.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U77	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I don't understand why you can't talk about their family members. Did they tell you not to do that? However, I would like to know who is part of the family we are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U78	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Randpere. I now call on Mr Pomerants, colleague of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to be the rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U79	Since this draft law does not concern it, does not change anything in this respect and the concept of family members is defined in other laws, I am not going to go into this at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U80	Hello, President-in-Office. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As the co-author Valdo Randpere has already introduced, this is a draft 326, a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act. Its main amendment concerns § 106 and consists in the fact that pensions are now really being changed through indexation rather than as currently stated in the Police and Border Guard Act, i.e. if the salary changes in any way. Broadly speaking, this is the fundamental amendment to the law. As regards § 100 and paragraph 1 thereof, this is simply a clarification of the existing law. Information about family members is actually stated in the current law and remains unchanged. This concerns § 103 and comes up when it comes to the survivor's pension of a police officer. When it comes to how all of this relates to social security and the provision of data in a case where something changes in the family, it may simply be that in a survivor's pension someone becomes an adult in the family and the entitlement to that pension disappears. And if you ask what the penalty is, it probably makes sense that if you do not have the basis and the right to receive that amount of pension, the money or excess may be recovered. This is simply a problem for a person and it is therefore good to inform the Social Insurance Board in time about these changes. As far as costs are concerned, you can all look at the 2013 explanatory memorandum to the state budget. You've got it in your hands, and there's this part of pages 170 about special police pensions. Around EUR 11 million of expenditure is planned for 2013. According to current estimates, 44 new so-called police pension businesses will be added in 2013 and the additional cost will be EUR 1.7 million. So every year, more people come. I checked that, in 2009, when Ken-Marti Vaher was here as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, he spoke about 1300 police and border pension businesses. If you look at the explanatory statement, it's already 1520 police officers and their pensions. Let me conclude briefly on the content of our debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, sorry, in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Why did I get a word from the Social Affairs Committee? My colleague, Mrs Tuus-Laul, also asked why this issue of pensions was not discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. The reason is very simple: this is an amendment to the Police and Border Guard Act and, consequently, the Committee on Legal Affairs is absolutely the right place for discussion. The questions raised by the members of the Commission were aimed at a better understanding of the pension system under the Police and Border Guard Act. When we had passed this debate, we took the following decisions: to carry out the first reading of this draft law, to stop reading it and to set the deadline for amendments to 11 December 2012 at 10 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U81	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. Now, please, questions! First of all, the second question is Tarmo Tammelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Good Commission waitress! Good legislative practice provides for negotiation with stakeholders. Has the Commission spoken to the 195 people affected by this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U83	Thanks! These 195 people have not been spoken to. We are going to have a new meeting next week in the Commission on this subject. On Monday, the Minister of the Interior will have a meeting with the police union workers, where this issue will be taken over, and we will certainly have results to look forward to.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U84	Please, Mr Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U85	Thank you very much. Good colleague! In order to understand this change in the appointment of a pension, I have the following question. Will those police and border guards who have the opportunity to retire now try to retire quickly before this law is in force, or will they try to stall it until the law is in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U86	First of all, it is a prerequisite that you have at least 20 years of pension entitlement, so that you can have pension rights in the event of a pension for well-deserved years. And five years of it must have been in the service before retirement. It's on the one hand. Secondly, the age limit is at least 55 years. Those are the terms. This issue of victory and loss we have already discussed a little bit that, in a case where there is a so-called expectation of wage increases, which could be higher than the national pension index, this pension increase could, of course, be a little bit higher by this time. The question, however, is when will the police get the next increase in pay? Indeed, depending on what time brings, it may also be of great benefit to us that indexation continues to bring a little more each year. As we know, we also have such a policy in the system of public pension insurance that the pension will never fall. In the case of a salary-related pension, at least in theory, such a problem may arise. But let's hope we don't have to go through the years we had here a few years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U87	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Can you specify the last point of the notification within 10 days? Why have there been no compelling reasons to apologize for not knowing? Has that ever been the plan? Things happen in life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U89	Thanks! This has not been the subject of a separate debate. Perhaps we should look at what current regulations are, whether they have worked, and if there have been any objective reasons not to know, whether they have been taken into account. I think it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U90	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. It seems that Viktor Vassilyev, as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party, wishes to come to the floor. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U91	Madam President! I don't know whether to ask for eight minutes or not. I'm not asking for it at first. First of all, I would like to say a few words of recognition about policemen, because they are very good people who are underpaid and who have been heavily laid off. They have to be kept, because police work is to some extent like our work, and it doesn't end in an eight-hour working day, but the policeman always remains a policeman. But to talk about this bill as the work of John Lennon and Paul McCartney... If you talk about it like some kind of musical style, we'll talk about it like a gangnam style. You know that. A cop, by the way, even if a bad guy runs away from him and laughs, doesn't quit his job. He'll continue the next day and catch the one who laughed. Right now, you're all very happy to finally have a night! But that doesn't mean we're throwing our work in the corner, because it's our job to take care of the police and everyone who pays the electricity bills. If we leave this hall tonight and the lights go out, you know we'll be here soon. The lights are on, we remember the excise duty, and we insist on the price of electricity, the reduction of excise duty. As easily as you won't be next time! Good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U92	Thank you very much for the good perspective. I'm closing the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft law 326 on 11 December. 10 a.m. First reading of bill 326 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, Our hearing is over. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, I don't want to see you here. Closure of the sitting at 1.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U93	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the first additional session of the 10th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened pursuant to § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, at the request of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, on the basis of the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu on 3 December, in order to continue the discussion of the agenda items that have not been discussed during the 10th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now is a good time to hand over drafts and inquiries. I would like to ask my colleague Rannar Vassilyev of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, Our long but moody week of sitting began with the fact that we had before us the Auditor General Mihkel Oviir, who answered the question, which included the procurement by AS Eesti Energia Narva Power Stations for the construction of a new power plant and the role of Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts. As we heard on Monday, the Auditor General considers that the public procurement law has been violated in this procedure. The main infringements concern the fact that a bid that could not have been declared successful has been declared successful. Alstom, whose tender was subsequently declared successful and on the basis of which the contract was awarded, sought different payment and penalty terms from those permitted in the tender documents. In addition, Alstom started negotiating the terms of the contract, which should not have been subject to the terms of the public contract. As we know, the Ministry of Finance supervises the organisation of public procurement. Consequently, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Finance. Members of the Riigikogu from the Social Democratic Party submit these questions in the form of an inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U95	Thank you very much. I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 6 December Estonia submitted its views on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on land use change related to the production of biofuels to the European Union Commission and appointed the Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. December 20th at 4 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to approve the agenda for an additional sitting. The Bureau has received a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group to remove item 15 from the agenda for the additional sitting, draft 277. I shall put the agenda for the additional sitting to the vote. Please vote! 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft agenda, 9 against and 2 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U96	We will continue to read the first 325 reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic which was not completed on Thursday of the 10th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have such information for you. Mr Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, could not take part in this debate yesterday, but he is here today. Do you agree that the Minister of Social Affairs is coming to answer your questions right now? [[There will be a vote of consent in the hall.]] I would like to ask Mr Pevkuri, Minister for Social Affairs, to continue to ask questions about this draft. The first questioner is Viktor Vassilyev. Question two, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U97	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! According to a letter from the Estonian Hospital Association, the change in the consumer price index alone has been 44.2% between 2002 and 2011 and therefore the charges need to be increased considerably at the same time. This is where I would ask about the government's plans for the future. What are the future plans? Will the prices now be increased annually by the consumer price index, or will the next ten years be collected in order to produce a good and orderly one-on-one?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U98	Thank you. I firmly believe that the Riigikogu should open this provision a little more. We came by the government to the Riigikogu with a legislative amendment that only concerned the letter and proposals of the Hospital Association. However, history has shown that this provision has not been implemented in this way today, as foreseen by the legislator ten years ago. Consequently, I believe that it would be wise for the Social Committee to dismantle the law and provide for example, I propose one possibility that the visit and bed pay be reviewed according to the same scheme as the pension index, i.e. at least once every five years, the Riigikogu must decide whether or not to be amended. That would make perfect sense, and I believe that the Committee on Social Affairs will hold this debate between first and second reading during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U99	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U100	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have a request that you speak up on this pricing policy a little bit. From where and from which company were the analyses commissioned, based on what the background of these companies was, perhaps you call the scientists who did the research, what they cost, what the views of the interest groups on these analyses, and how was the decision made that the price caps developed exactly as they did?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U101	There is no long answer, as you may expect. The short answer is that, as we know, we calculate and publish the consumer price index. From there, these calculations have been made and reviewed. So there is no chemistry here other than the officially calculated change in the consumer price index over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U102	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U103	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The daily and visit fees will increase at the same time as electricity prices and excise duties rise. This is a very rapid rise in prices, which is not essentially due to market regulation, but the Government of the Republic took a decision, its decisions were on the table, and now we are talking about them in this big Chamber. That is my question: what are the reasons why the Government of the Republic is putting pressure on the people like this right now when life is already difficult and prices are going up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U104	Thank you. The formal reason is to turn to the Hospital Association. Another formal reason is that the law states that bed and visit fees are reviewed depending on the consumer price index. The negotiations on a collective agreement between the Association of Physicians, the Professional Association of Health Care Workers and the Association of Hospitals are certainly a substantive reason to look at the substance. The position of the Hospitals Association is clearly that since it is not possible to change the consumer price component in the Health Insurance Fund's price list in order to ensure that doctors' wages increase, it is necessary to adjust the consumer price component by means of a bed-day and visit fee. That is why they sent their address, and that is why the large Chamber of the Riigikogu is discussing the matter now and hopefully approving this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U105	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U106	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It is clear from the explanatory memorandum that the additional benefits resulting from the entry into force of the draft may be lower than planned, as many healthcare providers have exempted chronic patients and other risk groups from paying visit and bedday fees, and not all health care providers apply the maximum rate allowed by law. Have you analysed the number of healthcare providers who collect fees at maximum rates and the number of those who set fees below the maximum rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U107	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U108	Thank you. The vast majority of healthcare providers apply the maximum rates. There was a distinction in Tallinn for a long time, but as far as I know, it has now been abolished, and in Tallinn, the visit fee and the bed-day fee must be paid in the same way at the maximum rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. For years, external experts have pointed out that the financing of the Estonian health care system is unsustainable. The strike was now brought as a justification for the increase in the daily bed fee and the visit fee. But if there had not been a strike, what justification could have been given to increase these prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U110	Thank you. Certainly not the only cause of the strike. I have just said, in reply to Mr Korb, that formal reasons are the law and the appeal of the Hospital Association. The fundamental reason is, among other things, the negotiation of a collective agreement. I believe that it would have been reasonable to discuss the subject even if there had been no strike. We have in law that the bed and visit fees will be reviewed, but that has not been done, unless they were re-fixed in connection with the changeover. It is right and fair that this issue is being discussed here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U111	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U112	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm also asking about the visit fee. In accordance with established practice, the visit fee is generally charged for the initial visit, but the practice of medical and health care providers varies again. Do you consider this to be in line with regional equality of access to equal treatment and healthcare?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U113	Thank you. The law states very precisely when a visit fee may be charged and from whom a visit fee may not be charged and in which cases the visit fee may not be charged. If someone has been charged a visit fee outside the scope of the law, this person should immediately contact the Health Board for supervision. If there are cases like this, please let me know! As far as I am aware, health service providers have gone by a different route, i.e. a revisit is sometimes also written as a visit, which is on the border. Actually, it could have been the first visit, but the doctor has described it as a revisit. It's all very clearly regulated in the law. If anyone has any doubts, please, the Health Board will check.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U114	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U115	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As we know, there are a lot of people in Estonia, to whom every eurocent is also important, let alone the euro. According to the latest Eurostat survey, the number of people living at risk of poverty in Estonia has increased to 23.1%. Because of this price increase, many people may not see a doctor. Delaying your visit to a doctor, however, will significantly increase the cost of medical treatment. The Health Insurance Fund's reserve should now be around EUR 200 million and the net result should be 160 million, so that around EUR 360 million should have money in this system. Then why would you stretch out your hand for patients' money? Is this EUR 360 million definitely invested anywhere, or is this money already on top of it in Greece?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U116	Thank you for your question. Let's start at the end. Yes, the money is available in reserves, of course. If there is a need for it, it will be put into effect exactly as much as the decision and the law allow, that is, on the one hand, the decision of the Health Insurance Fund Council and, on the other hand, the limits laid down by law for the use of this reserve. With regard to why the health fund's reserves are not being used, this has been repeatedly and repeatedly discussed. The health fund's reserves will be introduced in terms of the concept more clearly: by reserves, I mean both the undistributed result and, where appropriate, the mandatory risk reserve, and the amounts that will be mobilised will be planned and must be sustainable in terms of health insurance. It can't be that in three years we empty out the health fund's reserve, artificially raise expenditure, and then in three years we find out that we no longer have coverage for these expenses. The management of the Health Insurance Fund must be sustainable and rational. Of course, there is always a possibility of spending more in health care, there is no question in health care to spend the entire health fund's reserve in one year. There is no question of that; we could still spend more. So the rational and sustainable use of the resources of the Health Insurance Fund is extremely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U117	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I must admit that I am glad that you are back and that we are getting substantive answers to our questions again. My question is as follows. It is usually our custom to compare our little Estonia with another European country. That is why I am making the bill a little wider and I ask how many percent of the daily and visit fees are made up of the price of the health service in Estonia and how much they make up, for example, in Finland, Sweden, Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U119	Thank you. We have not directly compared visit and bedday fees, but it is possible to compare the overall contribution of individuals to health care. Overall ownership in healthcare has decreased significantly over the last five years. While we were 23-24% of the person's total ownership there, the latest data for the previous year, as a statistical comparison, show that it has fallen to 17.6%. In the world as a whole, 25% is considered to be the critical limit for ownership. So, in terms of our own contribution, our position is quite reasonable. If you look at the organisation of visit fees in different countries in particular, it is very different. Very much is used in a model with a visit fee of x%, for example 1% of the cost of the visit, regardless of the visit. So if you go to a CT scan, you're going to pay a lot more, tens and tens of euros if we look at the Nordics, for example. And when we're talking about a first outpatient visit, it's a smaller share. There are still a lot of comparisons, but I believe that it would make sense to take the policy of the participation of Estonian patients more widely and really look at the fact that doctors' appointments and visits to doctors are very different in nature. Then perhaps we could compare ourselves more closely with the Nordic countries, for example. But in Finland, the amount that people pay each year as part of their own contribution before Kela starts to pay back is in the order of EUR 300.400.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U120	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, The Association of Hospitals has repeatedly called for an increase in the daily and visit fees by justifying that they have not been raised for ten years since the entry into force of the Health Insurance Act. Then why hasn't it been done so far, can you answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U122	Thank you. It is, of course, very difficult to answer for the time that was up to 2009. After that, and actually earlier, efforts have been made to compensate hospitals for this amount or, let's say, the increase in consumer prices through the price of healthcare, i.e. the increase in the percentage of the consumer price index is fixed in the price component. It has therefore not been considered necessary to go up the path of changing the daily and visit fees for beds, above the thresholds laid down by law. The other half is certainly that, if we recall 2002, the bed-day fee and the visit fee imposed in 2002 were 25 and 50 kroons respectively. Let's make a little comparison. If in 2002 the average old-age pension was about EUR 100 in euros, it would be easier to understand and the visit fee was 3.20 euros or 50 kroons at the time, then in the order of 3% of the average old-age pension. With this change, which you have proposed, the visit fee will be EUR 5. If we take the average old-age pension, which is currently EUR 320, we will see that the percentage of own contribution is about 1.5 of the average old-age pension. So this relationship is still in the favor of the patient, compared to what was ten years ago. The changes in life and time are the main reason why some time was not prepared to raise the pay for visits and beds at the level of the law. There was an opportunity to influence the consumer price index component in the prices of health insurance services. However, when making the budget for next year at the Health Insurance Board, there was a very clear pressure not to increase the price of healthcare for the consumer price component, but to compensate for the increase in consumer prices for hospitals through bed and visit fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U123	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! As has been the case here before, for many people, both the daily and the visit fees are too high and may impair their livelihood. Instead, I'm asking you about the increase in the burden of an ambulance. Are there forecasts of the increase in the burden of ambulances due to reduced visits, as the pay for the visit is likely to rise too high for people? People are going to prefer a cheaper option, I mean, by way of a cheaper option, that they no longer go to the doctor, but call an ambulance. How much could this increase in burden be, and what additional burden, including the financial burden, will the increase in the daily bed and visit fees lead to an ambulance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U125	Thank you. A brief answer: we have planned additional ambulance brigades in Estonia for the following years. I believe that this should make the ambulance service more accessible to patients, and we expect that such a change will not leave patients' visits significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U126	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The Ministry of Social Affairs has set up a working group on the future of health care in Estonia from the representatives of the partners in the health sector to find answers to the questions about how to provide the best care for Estonian patients today and in the future. Has the working group discussed the increase in bed and visit fees and how other health sector partners view these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U128	Thank you for your question. Yes, this has been discussed in the context of the general self-participation policy, and here it is clear that the general self-participation in Estonia should not increase in percentage terms. It would be necessary to dismantle and revise the level of own contribution to the price of medicinal products, the level of visitation and bed pay and everything else related to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U129	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In the explanatory memorandum, the Estonian Hospitals Association addressed the Ministry of Social Affairs on 2 November 2012 with a proposal to increase the daily bed and visit fees. In fact, even at the beginning of the year, it was decided not to increase these fees in half a year. Some municipalities, such as the City of Tartu, compensate their people for their bedtime fee, or rather, they pay it to a large extent themselves. Do you have information from all over Estonia? While you said that most will charge a maximum rate, does the Ministry have such information that some municipalities will compensate for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U131	Thank you. Information still moves and health service providers give us information. As I said, the city of Tallinn also partially compensated, but as far as I know, this will not be done again. These are the two largest, Tartu and Tallinn, with the others significantly smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U132	Please, Mr Enn Frontland, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U133	Thank you very much. There has been a lot of talk about bed day and visit fee, and that is what has been asked about here today. The causes are ultimately very logical. But I'd watch it on the other side. It is known that many people are exempt from bed and visit fees at all. How many people are there, can this group grow in the future, and for what reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U134	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U135	Thank you. As I said before, everyone who has been released is in the law. At the moment, we have not made any changes to this draft. For example, the Association of Family Doctors has addressed the Social Affairs Committee and also sent a copy of the referral to the Minister. They say the family doctor is the same as all the other doctors in the specialist. The law speaks of a visit fee for specialist medical care, with the exception that a person does not pay for a family doctor's visit except a home visit. This debate will certainly continue in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U136	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! We read in the explanatory memorandum that the inpatient specialist medical care provider may charge a bedtime fee for each calendar day that began during hospital stay, but not more than 10 days in case of one case of illness. The limit on bed-day pay rises to EUR 2.5. At the same time, we know that food alone costs EUR 5 per patient. The question is this: which components of health care are covered by a bed payment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U137	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U138	Thank you. The daily bed allowance is one additional source of additional income in the so-called "own contribution block'. However, the health care provider's main income comes from the cost of the health care service, which is paid by the health insurance fund. This fee is literally a small part of the total cost of the service that the patient receives in the hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U139	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I myself am a supporter of conservative fiscal policies, and I believe that reserves must be kept reasonable. But right now, what you're saying isn't very convincing. If there is EUR 360 million in the reserve and the price increase is trying to get EUR 4.55 million from patients, I do not think that this will have any effect on the spending of reserves or on the impact on reserves very dangerously. Rather, the question here is whether we need to get this money again from the consumer. Maybe it would still allow people to see a doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U140	Thank you. Every money used in healthcare comes from the patient's pocket by means of taxes and equity, or from the state budget by making provision for non-tax revenues. In this sense, this money cannot come into health insurance from anywhere other than the taxes of a person who is still working.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U141	Please, colleague Valeri Korb, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Some places in the explanatory memorandum give food for thought and raise questions. More money is needed in connection with changes in health services. Take, for example, the Ministry of Defence, where the real need is 6 000 euros more for next year, and in other lines, more money is also needed. Have these expenditures already been included in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U143	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U144	Thank you. The following year's budget includes all the expenditure that the state can make next year. There will be no expenditure in the country next year, which is not in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Older people visit the doctor about 12 times a year, others 5-6 times a year. If we are talking about an increase in the daily and visit fees for beds, this cost will be EUR 20 to 30 per person per year. Have you not discussed, for example, to compensate pensioners for either the visit fee or the bed-day fee in full, so that this burden is not so great?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U146	Thank you. You said that the total cost would be EUR 20 to 30. So let's split up, one's a visit fee, and the other is a bed-day fee. If this is a stationary bed day, i.e. a person is in hospital, he is now paying 1.60 and starting to pay 2.50 or 90 cents more. If he has to stay in the hospital for more than ten days, he will still pay only EUR 9 more than he has done so far. The planned pension increase for the following year will increase by nearly EUR 200 over the year. I think that these comparisons give a clear picture that the various activities of the state are absolutely necessary in order to increase people's incomes. And I believe that if you need to see a doctor, this increase in fees is not so catastrophic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U147	Please, Mr Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U148	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sir, I'd like to thank you very much. The Prime Minister has confirmed on several occasions that he is not in favour of support and that new subsidies will only be needs-based. For example, needs-based child support and needs-based education support have already been established. Shouldn't the day-to-day and visit fees vary depending on the income? For example, we members of the Riigikogu would also be willing to pay 50 euros for the visit fee and 25 euros for the bed-day fee, but people with less income could pay less than the limits imposed by the bill. Otherwise, it will happen again, as the people are already saying, that the rich, beautiful, and healthy will heal themselves at the expense of the poor, the ugly, and the sick.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U149	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question! Mr Eldar Efendiev is not in the Chamber, so his question will not be asked. Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U150	Thank you. Every member of the Riigikogu has the right to propose amendments. The Committee on Social Affairs is looking forward to the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. According to the Estonian Association of Hospitals, the provision, availability and quality of care services suffers from delays in the day-to-day visit and bed pay, as the providers of care services are underfunded. It has also been said that increasing these fees is necessary to raise the salaries of health professionals. If the increase is intended to raise the salaries of doctors, why did the sickness fund not use the undistributed profits or reserves of previous years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U152	Thank you. It's a consorted subject. Once again, when it comes to the increase in the salaries and treatment of doctors as a whole, the hospital's budget is one big whole and the visits and bed-day fees make up a very small part of it. Let me give you a simple example. For example, when we are talking about intensive care, the price of intensive care per day is in the order of EUR 1000, and if a person has to pay 2.50, this is a very, very small part of it. So the majority of them are covered by joint and several sickness insurance, and a small share is a part of the classic solidarity sickness insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U153	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U154	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In the Commission, we briefly discussed this issue, but it remained open. The concern and approach of Tallinn Children's Hospital regarding the increase in bed fees. I understand you've had some intense times, but maybe you've gotten a little smarter in the meantime and can you tell me how this children's hospital problem is going to be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U155	Thank you. I think it still needs to be discussed in the Social Affairs Committee, along with the children's hospital people, in detail. We know that the majority of children's hospital patients are very small children. Up to two years, children are exempt from paying the visit fee, and then the patient must pay together with the parent. In the Committee on Social Affairs, I think it would make sense to discuss this subject, along with the reasoning of the children's hospital, and then to reach a common opinion. It seems reasonable to me, however, to stick to the fact that a mother should not pay a visit fee for children under the age of two who are mostly at home with her mother.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U156	Dear colleague Eldar Efendiev, for the second time please be in the Chamber if you have expressed your wish to ask! I can sometimes not allow you to ask me a question later. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U157	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll try to be in the hall when my question is in line. Dear Minister, Like the first question, my second question concerns workers in the health sector. There is a proposal from healthcare professionals, who also need medical care, a visit fee and no bed pay. It gives its advantage that most of them still stay in Estonia and do not look outside to have a more favourable climate here. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U158	Thank you. I think that if health professionals need medical care and they need to go to a health care provider where they need to pay for the service or pay a visit fee, they can do it in the same way as any working person in Estonia. I see no reason to make a difference here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U159	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U160	Thank you. Dear Hanno Pevkur! I have a feeling you're standing here before us for the last time as Minister of Social Affairs, and tomorrow you're already the Minister of Justice. Can you tell us, or can you tell your successor, what are the most painful problems in health care that you pass on to your successor?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U161	Thank you. The programme statement follows for two hours. It was a joke! To put it formally, I am certainly still the Minister for Social Affairs tomorrow, and the Prime Minister plans to go to the President on Monday, and then it will be clear whether or not the President will approve this change. As far as the burning problems are concerned, they are not missing in health care, they are always there, but I will say two keywords. Definitely hospital services I've talked about many times. My recommendation to the future Minister for Social Affairs is also to move forward with this reform. This is a request from doctors themselves as well as from hospitals and, of course, from patients to find out in the house which hospital the type of medical care can receive. And if we're still talking about health care, I suggest you make a goodwill deal, which I hope will be signed by the parties. Even if he can't, I'm sure we'll put it up on the website. Read it. It has received the most critical and painful thoughts and concerns of all parties in the sector. I think it's going to be a long debate, but it says which direction we have to go in the next two or three years and which decisions to make.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U162	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U163	Thank you, good Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! Yesterday, I asked your replacement the same thing. I'm starting to have a right-wing world view here in the long hours of the night. I see all the time how there is a constant money problem in the health care system, and the Minister of Social Affairs can't deal with anything but some kind of trouble. Wouldn't it be one solution if we lower the social tax rate, keep the hospitals up, but actually we leave the money to the people and let them buy us health insurance literally from the same doctors who sell the service to them, according to market economy principles? Wouldn't that be a solution for us? That's what they do in the rest of the world. Then everything would be clear, transparent and honest. Those who need help get, say, some help, and in fact, citizens have a much more beautiful life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U164	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I would also like to thank you, on behalf of all of us, for this very difficult ministry, in my opinion, for its successful leadership and to wish you the same successful leadership of the new ministry. Now I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Tsahkna, from the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U165	Thank you for your question. I also saw what my replacement said here yesterday with one sentence on the question. I'll answer you a little longer. If you want to study a little more the principles of health insurance and the difference between solidarity insurance and non-solidary health insurance, or so-called personal health insurance, you will quickly realise that personalised health insurance or non-solidary health insurance is feasible in countries with at least 30 to 40 million people. That's the line. That's what happens in the United States. As a bad example, I suggest you look at the example of our good friend Georgia, where health insurance is unfortunately bad. There is personal health insurance and there are only 35% insured persons. Maybe now that percentage has changed a little bit, I have two years ago. In a small country like Estonia, the only conceivable form of health insurance is solidarity insurance with some of the components of private insurance, which I would certainly like to see more in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U166	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Before Hanno leaves, on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, I would also like to say thank you very much for the work that has been done. Our cooperation has been very fruitful even in these difficult circumstances. But let's go to that law. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 325 before sending it to first reading in two sessions: procedural decisions were taken on 22 November and a review of the government representative was heard at the meeting on 3 December. The Social Affairs Committee has also been sent to Tallinn Children's Hospital and the Estonian Association of Family Doctors. Both have a number of questions and suggestions concerning the visit fee and the bed-day fee. The Commission decided that we will meet with the Tallinn Children's Hospital and the Estonian Association of Family Doctors on 11 December, at the Tuesday session next week, to hear these proposals also at the committee meeting. The Social Affairs Committee decided to send the draft amendment to the Health Insurance Act to the first reading by 5 December with a proposal to finish the first reading. Today, before this meeting, the Commission met in an extraordinary session. The Commission proposes to set a new deadline of 10 December at 12 noon for the submission of the 325 draft amendments. The original proposal for the deadline for amendments was 7 December at 12 noon. Since this draft is only here today at reading, the Commission has decided to propose that the deadline for amendments be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U167	Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U168	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! According to the explanatory memorandum, the Estonian Association of Hospitals addressed the Ministry of Social Affairs on 2 November 2012, but as I said to the Minister when I asked him a question, it is actually known that he also turned to the Ministry at the beginning of this year. The daily bed and visit fees have been unchanged for ten years. In the nine months of this year, which I have been a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, we have not discussed this issue in the Commission. Can you, who have been a member of the Riigikogu for a longer time and a person dealing with social problems, say whether you have been approached before and have the Commission dealt with this issue? Let's be honest, every price increase, especially if it comes in winter, when all costs are higher, still hits people pretty hard. However, there is a need for price increases. Has the Social Affairs Committee dealt with this problem in the last ten years or, for example, in a few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U169	Thank you, good questioner! I can reply now by heart that the Commission has not discussed this matter during the time I have been there, i.e. since April 2011. After all, there is a regulation in the law that the limit on the visit fee and the daily bed fee is multiplied by an index of 1 March of each calendar year, the value of which is the annual change in the consumer price index. It is up to the Minister to confirm this change, but the various ministers have not done so in ten years. The consideration has been precisely that of not increasing own contribution. I think it's been right. However, this is now the moment when it became clear in the negotiations with the Hospital Association and the doctors during the strike that additional resources needed to be found. It was a request from the Hospital Association and a proposal to the Government of the Republic, which then came before us with a change of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U170	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U171	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. Raising the daily wage clearly hits one particular social group. There are also studies that confirm that when people lose their health, they run a very high risk of poverty. Did the Social Affairs Committee discuss what measures could be taken to protect the most vulnerable groups from the difficulties caused by the increase in bed pay? Were there any increases in subsidies discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U172	Thank you, good questioner! We did not discuss the growth of grants separately, but if we look at the budget for next year, there will be a number of subsidies, as will pensions, as will the salaries of civil servants financed by the state. In this sense, the state has contributed as much as it can to increase people's incomes, including subsidies, with the state budget for next year. I hope that it will help that the rise in bed pay and visit fees will not hit people so hard and that access to medical care will continue to be guaranteed. A separate issue is the desire of family doctors to introduce a visit fee also for family doctors. As the representative of the IRL, I would say that the IRL is clearly opposed to the introduction of a visit fee for family doctors, because we have to ensure, in particular, primary care for all people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U173	No further questions. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask Mr Viktor Vassilyev to speak as a representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U174	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Yes, indeed, I am here on the remote as a representative of the Centre Party Group, which does not mean that I do not have my own opinion on the matter either. My opinion is largely in line with the opinion of the group, but it is slightly different. I have seen developments in health care for a long time. I have had the honour of working under at least ten ministers in the healthcare system. Maybe there have been even more, I don't remember everyone, some of them were in office for a short time. I have to say that Hanno Pevkur has been one of the most practical and still has until Monday, as I understand it. Of course, he inherited from his ancestors a system full of grave mistakes, danger points, risks. So he was the one who had to sort them out to some extent. If we recall a bit of history, the health reform was designed to reduce the burden on active hospitals, reduce the beds of active treatment and build up care treatments and create cheaper opportunities. It was the case that the active treatment was immediately clap-clapped, but as far as cheaper options are concerned, their plan has still not been met. It also happened at a time when the state does not have all the means to maintain the health system in its entirety as it must be. It is clear that not all necessary health services are provided in Estonia. However, they cannot be bought in, they are expensive and we do not have any money. In our pharmacies, the drug nomenclature is also several times smaller than in Finland. That's how we live here, just not telling people about it, so they don't point the finger at doctors, so you see, we're being treated badly. Hanno Pevkur has actually been in charge of the health care workers' strike quite consciously, with a tough hand, professionally for a year and a half. Because for about a year and a half, the Association of Doctors has been looking for ways to negotiate and make proposals to make the health system more cost-effective, to turn it to the person's face, not to the place that the polite place doesn't turn towards the person. At the time, however, they did not want to negotiate with them, and the appeal was that they were not in favour of the health care system. The Ministry of Social Affairs is not the one responsible, the Health Insurance Fund only finances, the Health Board only controls and the Hospital Association does not form a single whole at all; it is something like a voluntary association of hospital owners. I remember a letter sent to the Medical Association about a year ago, signed by the Minister of Social Affairs Pevkur, which said that if you want to negotiate a health care system with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs has only two agencies that provide health services: the Illuka Asylum Centre and the Astangu Disability Rehabilitation Centre. That's it, you can negotiate with them. Ironic, quite brutal. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U175	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U176	It went on in such a way that, in the end, the Hospital Association was pushed into the tank, although the Hospital Association did not connect all the health care providers, only hospitals and not all of them. But the Hospitals Association was finally willing to take the so-called bang and negotiate. It was with them what it was like, there was a trade here, one way or the other. Finally, the Hospitals Association was pushed to achieve some sort of result, a second time in the tank. The Hospital Association had to be the one who signed a contract with the health professionals that their salaries would rise, although the Hospital Association did not really have the powers to do so, no money, no opportunities. But it was decided that they were the ones who took responsibility. The Minister of Social Affairs did not assume this responsibility. Hanno Pevkur is the minister who has perhaps been on the seat of the Minister of Social Affairs for even the longest time in Estonia's independence, or is really only a few months short of this for the longest time. Let the historians look and write, so that this thing may be cut into records. Even if not for the longest time, the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, has been very long. Today, in health care, it has developed, and I repeat, it has been managed professionally and wisely by the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, a situation in which hatred and hatred have been created. Doctors blame the Hospitals Association, the Hospitals Association accuses doctors of wasting money. The patients blame the hospitals, the patients fight the hospital alliance. Now the unemployment fund is involved. That is the old principle: divide et impera, or divide and rule. That's how they do things. Of course, this current increase in bed and visit fees will not kill a person who has a decent job. Not everyone has a decent job. I do, and I do get letters from people who write to me and ask for advice on one illness or another because they don't have the money to go to the doctor and pay the visit fee. There are plenty of these people, and now we're going to increase the visit fee. We increase it at the same time as the price of electricity rises, we increase it at the same time as excise duties, excise duties on fuel and alcohol rise. Yes, let this sick person not drink alcohol. But I repeat, I've already said this from this remote control, it's symptomatic: if the government raises the price of alcohol, it really doesn't have anything else to do. Therefore, the Estonian Centre Party Group proposes to reject the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act 325 at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U177	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Nestor, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U178	Mr President, Mr Riigikogu, thank you very much. The law allows 40 million reserves to be used next year, while 10 million will be used. There is no need to adopt this bill. We propose to reject the draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U179	Thank you. No more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, since the two groups have proposed to reject the draft law at first reading,... Please, Kadri Simson, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U180	Thank you. There's a question. Before you put the rejection to the vote, please have a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U181	Yeah, great! Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U182	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Social Democratic Party to reject the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act 325 at first reading. Please vote! 22 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 52 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 325 amendments on 10 December 2012 at 12 noon. The first reading of Bill 325 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U183	We begin the first reading of Bill 312 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Kosovo' submitted by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Secretary of Defense, Urmas Reinsalu, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U184	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces on the Kosovo mission is under discussion. The government proposes to continue the mission with up to three members of the Defence Forces. KFOR is a NATO-led international operation to establish and ensure security in the Republic of Kosovo. Estonia has participated in NATO peace-building operation in Kosovo since 1999, when the mission was launched by ten members of the Defence Forces. Our participation increased in 2004 to 22 members of the Defence Forces and decreased to a group in 2007. Currently, one of the staff officers of KFOR is contributing to KFOR's headquarters in Priština; his duties are related to the staff routine. In 2013, a signal intelligence officer is expected to be added. I ask the Riigikogu to discuss and support the draft submitted by the Government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U185	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U186	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, A few years ago, a group of members of the Riigikogu were on tour and work in the region, and we also went to Priština and Kosovo, or Kosóvo, as they say on the spot. At that time Estonia was much more represented in these peace-building forces. I remember our men saying they'd be happy to see more representatives of our government in this district. Now our representation in Kosovo is quite small, perhaps a bit growing. When is there a plan to pass through there and get acquainted with the situation on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U187	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U188	Thank you. In my time as minister, I have visited our contingent in Afghanistan. I have also accepted a contingent returning from Atalanta's mission in Estonia. I have no intention of visiting our officer in the near future or, more generally, our KFOR mission. However, I am undoubtedly aware of their activities. Estonia's contribution in the form of a staff officer is valuable and our allies appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U189	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. However, there is no explanatory memorandum to this decision. This page therefore raises a lot of questions. But let's start with one question, and this is what I have: what are the three militias that are probably there now or who are going there until 31 December? What are their specific tasks, and what rank are these militias in?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U190	Thank you. Following the removal of the infantry team, Estonia has continued to contribute to the KFOR mission with a staff officer at KFOR headquarters in Pristina. His duties relate to staffing, and this work will continue in this way next year. According to current plans, in 2013 a KFOR mission signal intelligence officer is scheduled to be added. This is the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U191	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U192	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, What is the total number of international troops on this mission, I mean, the total number of men, the armed forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U193	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U194	The peace operation began in Kosovo on 12 June 1999. As of the end of summer 2012, approximately 5500 peacekeepers will participate in the KFOR mission in Kosovo in 29 countries. Since the second half of 2009, KFOR's staff has decreased twice, and as I said earlier, Estonia has also reduced its participation in this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U195	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! We are in Kosovo since 1999, when does Estonia intend to leave? Do you have any predictions when this mission will end for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U196	Thank you. The overall attitude towards Kosovo's participation in the peace-building operation is such that, in accordance with the agreement of NATO Member States, the departure from KFOR is decided jointly. So far, Member States' contributions are necessary and therefore the mandate of the mission is requested for the following calendar year. The need to continue depends on the security situation from 2014 onwards and will be discussed in the course of 2013. But I stress: we make decisions with our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U197	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U198	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As I understand it, we have been there for more than ten years, and earlier, with more power than we are now. This region is certainly not comparable to Afghanistan, but I am still asking: how well have we done there in that time? I mean, have our men come back safely from there, or have some of them been wounded? Have there been cases like this in Kosovo?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U199	Thank you. In the course of the Kosovo mission, the members of the Defence Forces have not died in combat. In total, approximately 130 armed forces have been injured on foreign missions. Specifically, by mission, I am not going to bring it out right now. As regards security in Kosovo, it can be said that the mission has played a positive role in the course of its activities, the security situation in Kosovo is generally stable, but there are still tensions in the northern part of Kosovo and there have been a number of incidents where KFOR has also had to intervene.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U200	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. You said that Estonia has been on Kosovo's peace-building mission since 1999 and 28 other countries are there, in addition to Estonia. I, too, did not find an explanatory statement on this decision, setting out the 29 countries that still contribute to this mission and the extent to which they contribute. Could you name these 28 countries and indicate their contribution to the Kosovo mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U202	Thank you. It is important information, it is not classified information and it is available to the public. There are 22 NATO Member States, the other seven are not NATO Member States. It is possible to provide you with an overview of the country's specific contributions in the course of your work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U203	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U204	Thank you, madam waitress. Good minister! Does the participation in the international mission in Kosovo result from our participation in NATO structures, or is it also linked to another international agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U205	Thank you. We are currently participating in the KFOR mission as a NATO Member State, but we started participating in this mission on the basis of a resolution adopted by the UN Security Council, because at that time we were not yet a NATO Member State. If Estonia were not a NATO Member State, it would still be possible to participate in the KFOR mission. Countries that are not full members of NATO will also be able to participate in NATO's mission, as is the case with the Afghanistan mission, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U206	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U207	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I didn't mean to ask, but I couldn't help but notice that there are 5,500 men on this mission. Are there really only three Estonians?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U208	Thank you. The maximum size of the Estonian contingent was 122 members of the Defence Forces in 2004. Their number has gradually decreased, and there is indeed a staff officer at KFOR's headquarters in Pristina.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U209	Please, Mr Laas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U210	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Please describe what the daily activities of the Estonian Defence Forces will be when we extend our mission!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U211	Thank you. Estonia will continue to contribute to the KFOR mission next year with a staff officer whose duties at KFOR headquarters in Pristina are related to the staff routine. In 2013, it is expected that a signal intelligence officer will also be deployed on this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U212	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U213	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I couldn't help but notice that there's talk of men all the time. Is it true that only male soldiers and no female participants are involved in this operation? I am talking about all the forces that are currently in Kosovo, as well as Estonia's participation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U214	Thank you. I'm adjusting the language. Indeed, I am sure that there are both men and women on a mission of 5,500. Women in the Defence Forces have participated in Estonian foreign missions and continue to participate as good Defence Forces. This was also the case with women on the last mission that returned from Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U215	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U216	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! In recent days, you have proposed that a number of drafts could be adopted by the Riigikogu without discussion, because then it will be possible to put them in one package and tie them in with the government's vote of confidence. You have justified such an idea by the need to extend foreign missions and the high speed behind them. However, you did not transfer the same draft extension of the Kosovo mission to the Riigikogu until 5 November. Last year, when the Minister of Defence was Mart Laar, the draft on the Kosovo mission was passed two weeks earlier. In 2009, when the Minister of Defence was Jaak Aaviksoo, it was transferred two weeks earlier. Experienced ministers knew that the pace of work in the Riigikogu should be taken into account. What took you so long, why did you leave this mission extended so late?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U217	Thank you. As far as the legal status of the contingents on our mission is concerned, it is certainly very important that they do not fall between the earth and heaven in the sense of justice, so that we have settled these questions by 1 January. There's no question. As regards the delay in the current parliamentary work, it must be acknowledged that the opposition has managed to surprise Estonia's parliamentary practice with an unprecedentedly long structure, which has now lasted nearly four weeks. I strongly wish Parliament to deal with these decisions within this calendar year. It is imperative in legal terms that our missions have a clear legal framework so that our contingents do not fall between the earth and the sky.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U218	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U219	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary of Defense! It was still unclear how many people were involved in this mission. One or two? So how many people are involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U220	Thank you. Currently, one of the Staff Officers of the KFOR headquarters in Pristina is permanently engaged in the mission, and his duties are linked to the staff routine. In 2013, a signal intelligence officer is expected to be added. So there's one, and it's actually planned that one of the officers in the staff routine should be replaced by a signal intelligence officer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U221	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U222	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do I understand correctly, perhaps I am totally wrong to describe this, that Estonia's participation in this mission is more symbolic, because with this number of people, our contribution is more than modest?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U223	Thank you. There is no doubt that Estonia's participation in the missions has both the weight of the actual military capability and the very important symbolic value. Betting with one officer is, of course, small in comparison to the larger contingent, as Estonia has contributed in previous years, but this is a contribution assessed by our partners. I have no doubt that this officer is doing a good job and is contributing to the success of the mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U224	Please, Mr Enn Frontland, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U225	Thank you. Dear Minister, There has been talk about the countries with which we are cooperating and contributing to this peace-building mission. Is it also noted that our relations with Serbia, for example, which has major outstanding problems with Kosovo so far, have changed somehow? There aren't many of us there, but how's that basically?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U226	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U227	Thank you. This is undoubtedly an immediate issue in the light of Kosovo's policy. Kosovo's priority is currently regional cooperation. They have good relations with Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro. Negotiations are also taking place with Serbia, but for the time being they focus mainly on technical issues. More difficult issues, such as the recognition of Kosovo's independence, have not been dealt with in the negotiations so far. The Republic of Estonia has defined its position here. The Republic of Estonia is certainly interested in good bilateral relations with Serbia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U228	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! To my previous question, where I asked what are the 28 countries that, apart from Estonia, are still participating in the peace-building mission in Kosovo, you did not really answer. I am particularly interested in one country: is our neighbour Lithuania participating in Kosovo's peace-building mission and, if so, how much is his contribution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U229	Thank you. As I said, it is public information about which countries are participating. Twenty-two NATO Member States participate, plus seven other countries that are not NATO Member States. Information on the contribution of the mission from one country to another is available. If necessary, it shall be communicated to Members by letter if there is more interest in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U230	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. I invite my colleague Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, to report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U231	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Pursuant to this draft Decision, Estonia will continue to contribute to the NATO-led international mission KFOR in Kosovo, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of June 1999. According to the draft, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from its NATO membership. As the Minister emphasised several times, we now have one senior officer of the Estonian Defence Forces at KFOR headquarters in Priština. In addition to the Defence Forces, Estonia also contributes to the Kosovo civilian mission EULEX. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 12 and 15 November. At the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 12 November, representatives of the author of the draft act were attended by the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and the Head of the Department of Defence Preparedness and Operations of the Ministry of Defence Riho Rõngulep. At its meeting on 4 December this year, the National Defence Commission received an overview from representatives of the Defence Forces of what happened in the international mission areas of the Estonian Defence Forces, including Kosovo. The National Defence Committee took the following unanimous decisions on the draft at its meeting on 12 and 15 November. First, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft decision be included in the Riigikogu for the first reading. a on the agenda for the meeting on 5 December. It was also decided by consensus to present this draft as amended at first reading with the consent of the author. These are technical improvements to the draft text. The National Defence Committee also decided unanimously to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading this draft decision and ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set the deadline for submitting amendments. 12 December at 5 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U232	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U233	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! With this bill, you had some kind of confusion in the Commission. You discussed this draft and wanted to put it on the agenda two weeks ago on Wednesday. Then the National Defence Commission decided at the same time that the draft was not ready, it had to be removed from the Wednesday agenda to think for another two weeks. Could you explain what happened to this bill that it was taken off the agenda two weeks ago on your proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U234	Thank you. There was obviously no major confusion, as these decisions were unanimous enough. The main objective is for the draft to pass the debate smoothly and we should not have to discuss it at night, as has recently become a tradition. I think that, in the example of this good working time, this decision justifies itself, we can really discuss these mission proposals at a reasonable time with a fresh head and a clear eye today. So the answer was between the lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U235	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U236	Thank you. Good performer! Do you have the impression that we are not discussing properly at night? I think we have asked a lot of questions and spoken. But really, the coalition side hasn't been in the hall, and often not in the house. Then why don't we work hard?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U237	Thank you. I take this opportunity to thank the opposition for the meaningful debates of the night. This Commission decision had been taken before them, i.e. opinions were premature. Indeed, we had a good debate here one early morning during the debate on the draft order of defence. This debate has been, and it actually gives a high assessment of our capacity for cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U238	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U239	Reservoir Captain Raidma! Please define the term'reasonable time'!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U240	Reserve Captain Riisalu, I define: this is a period that is reasonable enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U241	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, colleague and reserve Captain Aivar Riisalu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U242	Chairwoman of the good Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, With extraordinary warmth, I will start talking about the Kosovo mission. The mission, which has been a major mission for the Estonian Defence Forces, has been one of the first significant missions for the Estonian Defence Forces, where we contributed with the company's size unit in cooperation with our good overseas neighbours Danes. I myself have been honoured to visit Kosovo twice in 2003 and 2004 and to visit our mission units and, as a training element, to participate in a soldier's routine in the region. That is why I can say that Estonia's participation in the Kosovo mission is also now when we give a mandate to three Defence Forces members, but in fact we have one Defence Forcesman physically present there, still extremely important for Estonia because more than 20 countries contribute there. I would dare to call Kosovo one of the most important tensions in continental Europe at the moment, because peace has not yet arrived in Kosovo in any way. The areas inhabited by the Serbs of North Kosovo do not want to accept the fact that the southern and central parts, which are mainly inhabited by Albanians, have achieved the success of Kosovo in its applications for independence. The Balkan crisis in the early 1990s showed very clearly that Estonia, too, is a country where neighbours can stage such incidents, and Estonia could also be broken into regions. Basically, Kosovo's lessons in this regard are very good for us, so that we can avoid the problems that Yugoslavia could not avoid, having broken down into six countries, in essence, today. As regards the experience that our defence forces have gained over the years from Kosovo, this too must be highly appreciated. In fact, when we pulled out our units, i.e. we stopped participating with a contingent of company size, but in cooperation with one infantry group with the Danes, I believe that even in Estonia's history, for the first time, the infantry group that participated in the Kosovo mission was formed by the Defence League. As an active defence ally, I dare admit that this opportunity was a crucial and very good example for the Defence League that the Defence League has a clear position in Estonian military defence. Let's be honest and frank that the dozens and dozens of men who have returned to the Defence League with mission experience today are crucial to us even as an element of training, because participating in the mission will give you a complete picture of the entire spectrum of soldier life. Just because you're not in active combat is more luck than accident, but in any case, you'll find out what a soldier routine looks like. For this reason, I believe it is crucial that Estonia does not leave this region, that we are on the list of countries participating in the mission, because we never know when the situation could be tightened again. Let me give you an example. When there was relative peace in Kosovo in the summer of 2003, and it seemed that all the problems had been left behind, Mitrovica, where the Estonian company was, was such a lovely town. There were signs of war, namely that NATO aircraft had bombed a pretty significant part of a gypsy district there, which was quite incomprehensible to me. But then later it turned out that the local people also used NATO to settle the accounts, the coordinates had gone a little wrong, and the aircraft bombs fell where it wouldn't have been necessary to fall in the war. This apparent peace had changed completely by 2004, when I visited the mission area for the second time. The flourishing downtown of Mitrovica was relatively tarnished, burned down, and looked quite different than the anniversaries before. The name of the problem was that tensions had suddenly increased, civil protests had become violent, and the city was once again looted. As a result, it is entirely justified for the European Union to see that peace and stability in continental Europe are important and important to us. I think that, should there be a need, our country, our people and also Parliament will be ready to contribute to Kosovo with additional forces. I can assure you that, for example, the Defence League and the Defence Union volunteers would certainly be willing to participate in such missions, because this would give us the opportunity to solve national problems even better, to deal with training and to serve our country. I call on all political parties to continue to pursue the consensual defence policy launched by Trivimi Velliste and I call on all political parties to support this draft mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U243	Thank you very much, Mr Riisalu, for a very good presentation. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 312 amendments on 12 December at 5 p.m. Bill 312, first reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U244	We begin the first reading of draft 313 of the Riigikogu's decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan." Urmas Reinsalu, Secretary of Defense of the Speaker's Board, for presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U245	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Defence Forces have served in Afghanistan since 13 March 2003, when a six-member demining team was deployed by NATO-led international security support forces. Estonia's duty as a member of the international community is to contribute to eliminating threats to terrorism. Participation in the Afghanistan Security Mission is one of our most important and most visible contributions to NATO. ISAF, NATO's mission, is also our most important foreign operation and NATO's. Given that NATO's collective defence is the cornerstone of Estonia's security, it is in Estonia's interest that NATO be successful in carrying out its tasks in Afghanistan. Participation in the international peace-building mission in Afghanistan is directly related to the security interests of the Estonian state. The Government of the Republic proposes to the Parliament that in 2013 the Defence Forces continue to participate in Afghanistan in the same mission as this year, with a total of up to 170 members of the Defence Forces. According to the plan, next year the commander of the contingent and his assistant, staff officers, the Task Force Helmand-owned infantry company and fire support team, the destruction team of homemade explosive devices, the target unit of special operations, the surgical team, two helicopter pilots and the support element of Estonian units would be part of the contingent of Estonia. NATO has taken a fundamental decision that the ISAF battle mission will end at the end of 2014. In 2013, Estonia is planning to continue in its current volume. Together with our allies, we must decide in 2013 how and at what pace the departure of the Estonian contingent will take place in 2014. I would like to stress that the Estonian Defence Forces have suffered losses on this mission. The responsibility of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces, and the most important priority, is the security and security of our Defence Forces in their battle missions. This is a real war situation, real threats and as far as it is possible to mitigate the risks of equipment and training in a war situation, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces will implement these measures. I ask you to support this mission and make these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U246	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U247	Thank you very much, Minister. Our representatives in Afghanistan have done a hard job, a grateful job. As you said yourself, unfortunately, we have also suffered severe losses. The soldiers who have been wounded and severely wounded must undoubtedly be counted among the losses. Can you tell us what rehabilitation programs are like now that can restore the health of injured military personnel, either at home or away from home?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U248	Thank you. This has been one of the most important topics the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces have been dealing with. We are based on the principle that no one will be left behind either on the battlefield or after the Defence Forces have returned from the battlefield. The cost of restoring the health of our Defence Forces will be borne by the Estonian state. Psychological assistance is also important; it is important to help injured defence forces return to civilian life. There is also an important principle that all injured members of the Defence Forces are allowed to continue in the various departments of the Defence Forces in accordance with their capabilities. I have submitted to the Government of the Republic for discussion and I hope that this year a veteran's policy will be approved. This is based on the experience of our partner countries so far in terms of how to protect and recognise our defence forces and their families before going on the mission, during the mission and also after the mission, how to recognise veterans more widely. Above all, the emphasis is, of course, on the injured defence forces and on those of the fallen defence forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U249	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U250	Thank you. Good waitress! My question relates to the new development plan for the Defence Forces. I see there have been a lot of cuts. Are these cuts to some extent also affecting soldiers on missions? They don't have to suffer for their safety, do they?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U251	Thank you. I want to confirm that the security of our defence forces is a priority for the Republic of Estonia in all foreign missions and, above all, in the context of a dangerous foreign mission, such as the Afghanistan mission, both in terms of training and personal equipment. There is no doubt that we are constantly carrying out threat assessments of the dynamics and the situation in our mission's area of responsibility. As far as the development plan for the Defence Forces is concerned, I can assure you that the development plan is based on a very clear principle: our actual military capabilities, compared to the present one, must increase over a period of ten years. The formation of the Defence Forces must increase, the military equipment and the ability of the Defence Forces to face the military threat at short notice must be improved. Our weapons systems must also evolve. It is right that we need to revise the plans that have been made so far, which cannot be realised on the basis of a monetary rate of 2% of gross domestic product (GDP) to national defence. So the contraction takes place in the plans, our current real capacity is growing, not shrinking, including, of course, personal equipment, training and all the conditions relating to foreign missions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U252	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U253	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few years ago, I had the honour of visiting NATO headquarters in Brussels. Of course, there was talk about ISAF. I spoke with a French soldier who had served on the ground and led the troops there. He was very sceptical about the fact that peace would ever come to this region and that at some point there would no longer be a need for Western help. How long do you think the missions will last? Is it even possible that Afghanistan will ever be at peace and that there will be no need for other countries' help to ensure a normal life?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U254	Thank you. NATO's political decision is that the NATO combat mission ISAF will cease its activities by the end of 2014. After that, since the beginning of 2015, the allies will certainly continue to contribute to the security and stability of Afghanistan and to the reconstruction of the rule of law. Both civilian support and military assistance will be provided, but no longer in the form of a battle mission, but through training and training. As far as Afghanistan's future is concerned, this mission is aimed at helping the Afghan Government to establish its own power throughout the country and to support security sector reforms in Afghanistan. Gradually, territories controlled by the ISAF military have been transferred to the control of Afghan security forces. There is no doubt that Afghan society is facing a great many challenges, based on its history and cultural situation. However, I would like to stress that, of course, the Allied States that contribute to the mission expect the Afghan Government to develop both national and local institutions, as well as reforms related to the transition. Our goal is Afghanistan, a country that can guarantee its own security, who can manage economically and where terrorism, crime, drugs and refugees do not come from, which would endanger lives in our country. This challenge certainly is not an easy one for Afghan society, to say the least. Support from the civilised world is also needed after the end of the 2014 Battle Mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U255	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U256	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, As we know, from August 2012 Estonian Defence Forces no longer have a specific area of responsibility and are operated according to the needs of different regions. We know that the Estonian Defence Forces have been in relatively difficult places throughout this mission, compared to some other countries participating in the mission. Does this change of strategy put the life and health of Estonian Defence Forces at greater risk or, on the contrary, will their service become easier and safer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U257	Thank you. South Afghanistan, where our Defence Forces are participating in the operation, is undoubtedly one of the key points in terms of security, but the situation remains very difficult throughout Afghanistan. As for the change in the type of task, before these decisions we analysed the security situation. Analysis, military expertise and military advice confirm that with the change in the type of mission tasks, the threat background has not been strengthened. Undoubtedly, uncertainty always plays a role in such a situation. Our defence forces are facing threats, but the threat situation has not changed because the type of task has changed, that a certain responsibility has been replaced by duck rolling in the wider territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U258	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U259	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I registered the request for a question before you started talking in your reply about the veteran policy and the fact that it is pending and expected to be adopted next year. But now my question comes from that answer of yours. At times, however, we read that some who have come from missions feel left out. There are also very sad cases of suicide. My question is, has anyone spoken to those people who have spoken through the press about this feeling of exclusion in the development of a veteran policy? Perhaps these conversations could be a good idea for veteran politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U260	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U261	Thank you. Yeah, we met when we worked out the veteran policy, and I personally met veterans, injured militia. We have tried to make the most of the experience gained so far in the Defence Forces in supporting veterans, advising them, helping injured soldiers to rehabilitate them, also providing psychological assistance. It is precisely this that it is very important that veterans continue to have psychological support and support for a longer period of time after returning from their mission. This stress stays in people, and in many cases neither the person nor his family can immediately observe it. War is cruel, the tensions that remain within humans are complicated. Our job is to help our militia and be with them when they need help.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U262	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! As you know, on a good day, the united forces will leave there and, as you have said in your replies, it is necessary to hand over responsibility for their country to the Afghan defence and security forces. This means that a lot of work is currently being done together. But through the press, we have heard that, in one case or another, Afghan security, police or defence forces have shot their fighters, or those on the mission (they have hit American representatives). Is there no danger in our cooperation that those we are trying to help will shoot us instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U263	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U264	Thank you. It is true that the number of these cases has increased recently. This has led the ISAF Mission Commander to adopt additional security measures to be implemented in cooperation operations where the ISAF Member States' forces use the assistance of the local security forces. In our assessments and analysis, we will certainly take this into account as well. These attacks are a wider problem, in many cases due to cultural problems, personal issues; on the other hand, they are certainly an opponent, attacks by Taliban fighters. Why has the problem come up in the big picture just recently? In fact, the point is that the Afghan army has been raised in numbers. Control of the Afghan army, as they have been able to carry it out internally, has become weaker as a result. One of our methods that the ISAF considers necessary is certainly additional control over local security forces fighters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U265	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Unlike the previous draft agenda item, this draft decision also contains an explanatory statement. The explanatory memorandum states that NATO is the cornerstone of Estonia's security and that in Afghanistan Estonia fully shares the principle of a comprehensive approach. Please explain to me who I am not a defence force and who does not deal with defence policy on a daily basis, what a comprehensive approach means.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U266	Thank you. A comprehensive approach means, in short, that our strategic objective is an independent Afghan society, a country on its feet that is capable of producing and controlling its own security. As a result, Estonia does not only contribute to Afghanistan's development through a military mission, but we have also participated in the European Union Police Mission in Afghanistan since early 2008 and the UN UNAMA mission, as well as in the NATO Police Instructors Training Mission. From March 2008 to July 2012, Afghanistan had an Estonian health expert who participated in the work of the British team of local reconstruction and coordinated Estonia's international development cooperation projects. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has dispatched a temporary agent to Afghanistan, mostly located in Kabul. The principle is that the success of an operation of the Afghan type cannot be achieved solely by military means, that reconstruction diplomacy and military action must support each other there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U267	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U268	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary of Defense! Each mission has its own cost, both the cost of lost lives and the financial cost. Of course, the financial price never outweighs human lives, but I ask: how much money does the Estonian taxpayer spend a year carrying out a mission to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U269	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U270	Thank you. The costs related to the pre-operation and stay of Defence Forces units will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Defence's administration and around 7.2 million euros will be planned for operational expenditure of the Defence Forces personnel in Afghanistan in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U271	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary of Defense! The Afghan security forces are currently in charge of approximately half the normal operations and almost a third of the special operations. I want to clarify the difference between normal operations and special operations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U272	Thank you. By general definition, the purpose of special operations is to achieve a specific military objective using an independent military capability. Independence and the difference between routine and military performance are fundamental differences.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U273	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U274	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Have you discussed with the Ministry of Defence or coalition partners what kind of assistance and will Estonia even provide Afghanistan after 2015? What civilian operations are we participating in, or what kind of civilian assistance do we intend to provide?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U275	Thank you. As far as our specific assistance is concerned, I can say that Estonia is now intending to make specific decisions, of course, from the budget allocation to support the reconstruction of Afghanistan after 2015 by contributing 300,000 dollars to the development of the Afghan security forces. As regards how we intend to act after the end of the battle mission, it is clear that this is an ally mission, to which all NATO Member States contribute, and it will certainly continue to contribute after 2015 through the training mission. We are now considering the possibility of continuing as instructors in a special operations group in the next NATO mission after 2015. But it is a decision that must be made in Parliament when the moment of decision comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U276	Please, Mr Laas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U277	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You have already said that the budget for the Afghanistan mission will be EUR 7.2 million next year. Why don't you give us a little more insight into the basic cost items that lie inside this sum?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U278	Thank you. These cost items are clearly the salaries of the members of the Defence Forces, including bonuses, management and logistical support costs, pre-mission training costs, ammunition costs, maintenance of individual equipment and communication costs, holiday fees, transport costs and other costs related to logistics and auxiliary functions. The main costs are, of course, the remuneration and supply costs of our Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U279	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U280	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister of Defence! Have there been more recent incidents of Afghan government troops attacking Allied troops? Have such incidents or threats also occurred with Estonian Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U281	Thank you. Yes, regrettably, such attacks have increased in recent times. This has caused serious concern to the allies involved in the mission. The military command of the mission has therefore taken a decision to implement additional security measures in conjunction with the ISAF units and the Afghan army and security forces. One reason here is also that Afghanistan's own security forces have recently grown rapidly, and this has made security controls thinner. It is very important that Afghanistan's security forces are controlled by its own security institutions. As regards the situation of Estonian Defence Forces in recent times, the so-called green-on-blue attacks on Estonian Defence Forces have not taken place. But surely we are also thoroughly analysing the dangers of this nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U282	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U283	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! As with the first question, I will use the second one to clarify something for me to better understand some fine and perhaps unfine things. That's the question. The rotation of the Estonian Defence Forces Infantry Company and the logistical support element will take place twice a year, in May and November. Is this Estonia's choice, or is it somehow established? Can you tell me what it's like to be guided like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U284	Thank you. Our company is part of the British armed forces and this six-month cycle is also being used by British units. The US ISAF units use a one-year routine. However, the United States military have indicated that such a long period of time on mission can cause additional stress to people in later rehabilitation. I therefore think that the six-month period is optimal. The fact that these times are just May and November is a cycle agreed between the allies, which has no meaning other than that a certain cycle must be the basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U285	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U286	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of Defence! How do you assess the ability of the Afghan Ministry of Defence to ensure security in the areas already transferred?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U287	Thank you. It can be said that the process of transfer has been ongoing. In total, Afghan security forces have already transferred the territory where more than half of the Afghan population lives. There is no doubt that this process is proceeding with different capacities in different regions. The existence of problems must not be underestimated here; they must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U288	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U289	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of Defense! What thoughts and feelings do you have about the fact that some Estonian Defence Forces in Afghanistan are not the first, the second, or the fourth, but the eighth?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U290	Thank you. This gives me respect for the men and the women who have gone on missions several times, who have chosen to defend the freedom of the Estonian state in such a complex situation far from the Estonian soil. Our task, who are responsible for supporting them and helping them to do their job better, is to provide them with good equipment, to guarantee their security and to guarantee them the respect they deserve in this difficult profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U291	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U292	Thank you, Madam President. Good Secretary of Defense! According to the explanatory memorandum, Estonia has promised to support the development of security forces with at least USD 300000 per year since NATO troops left Afghanistan in 2015. Is this support a one-off, or is it ongoing, and where are the sources of cover found for this? Is that money coming from the Ministry's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U293	Thank you. This money comes from the budget of the Republic of Estonia. The government can express its political will, of course Parliament will decide by making a financial allocation. The form in which it will be paid out in the future will depend on more specific agreements in the future. But it is clear that the Government of the Republic is prepared to make such a commitment and to give a decision to Parliament during the debate on the annual budget. In doing so, we give our signal that the Estonian state is ready to support the so-called comprehensive approach to the reconstruction of the Afghan state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U294	Please, Mr Mikko, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U295	Mr. Secretary of Defense! Can you briefly explain why the Estonian contingent is still in such a hot and difficult place as Helmand Province?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U296	Thank you. We are a NATO Member State and Afghanistan's mission is a mission based on NATO's collective defence principles. The principle of NATO collective defence is one of the foundations of the Estonian state's military security. We want this mission to be a success. Estonian soldiers are good soldiers and we contribute to the UK units in Helmand. I am pleased that the British military leadership, also the senior command, and the United States military leadership appreciate and treat Estonian soldiers equally with their warmates in the region, both American and British soldiers. There is no distinction here, depending on the status of the sending State. We are in a difficult situation, but there are many difficult areas. Only if countries have restricted the use of their mission units with very specific restrictions can we talk about some different application. We have said that we believe in the principles of NATO collective defence. We are prepared to contribute to NATO's joint mission in Afghanistan, and we expect and are convinced that NATO's allies will realise the principles of collective defence, if necessary, even if the military attack should concern Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U297	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U298	Thank you. Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, is this the last time the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Estonia is standing before the Riigikogu asking for an extension of the mission in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U299	Thank you. The position has been taken that NATO's battle mission will end at the end of 2014. The government's proposal is to continue in 2013 to date. The division of the members of the Defence Forces in particular will be changed, but the volume will remain the same. As for 2014, how, at what pace and according to what schedule, the Estonian contingent leaves Afghanistan, we will make this decision in 2013, in consultation with our allies. The final position is formed by the parliament of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U300	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We will continue with the question of a good colleague, Tarmo Tamme. According to the explanatory memorandum, Estonia has promised to support the development of local security forces with at least USD 300000 since 2015 after NATO troops left Afghanistan. The first part of the question is: if it starts in 2015, how long has it been planned to continue this funding? Secondly, will it be part of the 2% funds that will be used in Estonian defence policy in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U302	Thank you. One proposal is what the government can make, expressing to the allies its willingness to implement this comprehensive concept in Afghanistan with Estonia's contribution as well. A specific decision, a final decision, is made by Parliament on a proposal from the government. Parliament will decide whether it is considered necessary to continue the financial allocation beyond 2015. Whether money is included in national defence expenditure or will come from the Ministry of Defence budget as defined in this definition, it will be possible to specify later in the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U303	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. No further questions. I ask the Chair of the National Defence Commission, Mati Raidma, once again!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U304	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading. a meeting on 12 and 15 November. As presenters of the bill, Defence Minister Urmas Reinsalu and Head of Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence Riho Rõngulep participated in the session. At the meeting of the Commission on 4 December, the Commission received an overview from representatives of the Defence Forces of the international mission areas with the involvement of the Defence Forces, including those in Afghanistan. According to the draft under discussion, the deadline for the use of the Estonian Defence Forces will be extended until 31 December 2013 by the International Security Assistance Force Mission in Afghanistan, led by NATO. The ISAF is NATO's most important military mission, to which the relevant UN Security Council resolutions extend. On 9 October this year, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2069 extending the current ISAF mandate until 13 October 2013. According to this draft decision of the Riigikogu, Estonia also fulfils the allied obligations arising from NATO membership in the aforementioned resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations. The ISAF is NATO's most important military operation, with current plans for a final transfer of responsibility to the Afghan security forces by mid-2013. Support to the Afghan security forces remains a further and main task of the ISAF, and military action is due to be completed by the end of 2014. At the session of 12 and 15 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft decision to be discussed for the first reading in the Riigikogu. a on the agenda for the meeting on 5 December. It was decided to submit the draft as amended at first reading. The amendments to the draft text are, in particular, specific and technical, and are made on the recommendation of Mr Aivar Engel, Head of Counsellor/Secretariat of the National Defence Committee. The draft decision refers to the mandate given by the Riigikogu last year and currently in force, which is extended according to the draft. The author of the bill supports the presentation of the draft as amended at first reading. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading this draft decision and ask the President of the Riigikogu to set the deadline for submitting amendments. 12 December at 5 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U305	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. Let's continue with the questions. Mr Kalla, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U306	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. Afghanistan is certainly one of our most difficult missions. In a long time, a lot has happened there. There were a lot of questions in this hall, some of which may have seemed easy for the waitresses. However, these were also due to the fact that the draft decision does not contain a comprehensive explanatory statement which would certainly have simplified understanding and given a better overview. Isn't the explanatory statement because it's a national secret or because of what? If there were a comprehensive and comprehensive explanatory statement on the draft decision, it would be much clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U307	Thank you. If you are referring to the absence of an explanatory statement on the shelf at the back of the hall, this was a technical error in our first draft mission. We were able to react quickly in cooperation and now these explanatory notes already exist. We solved this technical problem. However, I think the questions were very meaningful, and I am pleased that the Minister gave them all correct answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U308	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U309	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! I wanted to ask you a substantive question, but it has now become clear that you are going to report on the Commission's debate, where you yourself were not present. Would it not have been more appropriate for this debate to have been presented by a member of the Commission who also participated in the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U310	Thank you. Indeed, I was not present at this decision-making meeting, but we have all our missions under constant discussion in the Commission, and I hope that the answers have also been exhaustive. When it comes to the question of whether or not a matter was discussed at a particular sitting, I have ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber who, respectively, nod or shake their heads. I do not think that this is such a deficit that I would therefore give you a poor answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U311	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. I'm opening negotiations. We have the opportunity to listen again as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Mr Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U312	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U313	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U314	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Afghanistan mission is clearly the most serious mission in Estonia in history. We will be there with up to 170 members of the Defence Forces, which is actually the minimum reasonable opportunity to participate in one military operation. This allows us to put out a unit the size of a battle company, and unfortunately or fortunately, we can count the company as the first operational tactical element capable of conducting independent operations. I would like to express my sincere thanks to this speaker on behalf of all political parties, and I would like to stress that until the late past, the National Defence Committee worked on the principles of consensus in Estonian society, which has taken a sympathetic view of this mission. We've had casualties on this mission. We've had casualties, we've got wounded. When it comes to the serious issue, it must be acknowledged that these fallen and wounded have not done their job in vain, they have not fallen in vain. If in almost two years 11 people have been killed in Estonia by open sewers alone, then nine fallen on the warfield will rather honor us and 11 killed in open sewers will show that we still have a way to go. War is never easy. War is never pretty. Often, war is inevitable. I would like to use another thought here, which tells us: who does not want to feed his army will soon feed a stranger. In the 21st century, those words may seem strange. Our good neighbours in Latvia and Lithuania have today chosen a slightly different path than Estonia has chosen. And I say that what we are doing in Afghanistan clearly shows those countries and those nations who understand: peace in the world is not about themselves, but world peace is the result of our collective effort and of our efforts. For example, if the situation is to deteriorate and we need to protect our country, we cannot claim with full responsibility that the situation in the world cannot deteriorate, we have over 3,000 combat-experienced soldiers thanks to a number of missions, especially the Afghanistan mission. Civil people don't have to understand, they can't, and maybe they don't always want to understand what it means to have an old veteran with combat experience in one good battle force. You see, there are two ways to behave in the military. One is clearly to follow the rules and to impose itself by means of commands. The second and special route to Estonia in our historical struggles and in today's self-being is the road where immediate commanders set themselves by their own example. It is precisely this principle that very much is used in the voluntary units of the Defence League today. And the presence of a battle-experienced soldier in a unit built with relatively younger and inexperienced men makes this unit a considerable force. A man with battle experience can rise to an attack, can motivate his associates, can set an example for them and, at a difficult moment, can deter fear because the men with war experience we send on missions go there voluntarily. Yes, we admit that this volunteer also has a second and a more social side, which means that going on a mission will give you the opportunity to feed and cover your family better, to secure your life. That is the sad truth, and I think that Parliament should seriously, once again, cross-partyly, consider the possibilities for our defence forces to feel well at home as well. On missions they feel good, on missions they are equal among equals, they are well-trained and the Estonian state has provided them with the best possible equipment. I think that is why we have had a relatively successful mission experience. We still have a lot to do within the country, but I also dare to say that if we give the Afghanistan mission a mandate for next year, we will certainly also ensure that the Defence Forces that participate in the missions remain and exist for us. Because all of this, which I have talked about here for a long time, guarantees us that there are three serious pillars in Estonian national defence: the frame defence forces, the military service and the Defence League. This will ensure that during our difficult moments our strategic partners remember that the brave Estonian soldiers rose, with a gun in their hand, to attack. Even when bullets were whizzing around the head, and when one of them fell into the dust, either from an explosive device or from a bullet, the Estonian soldier remained the one he's been for centuries. I call on you all to understand, to support our soldiers, above all, in Afghanistan, but also everywhere else. Let us not make national speculations in matters that are vital to the Estonian state's survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U315	Thank you very much, Mr Riisalu, once again for a very good speech. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 313 amendments. 12 December at 5 p.m. First reading of Bill 313 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U316	We will begin the first reading of the Bill 314 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on a post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' submitted by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask again for a presentation by the Minister for Defence of the Speaker's Board, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U317	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is proposing to Parliament to extend our international commitments for the next year in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. We are participating in a military mission in the Middle East, just as we are in other missions in crisis areas because of our security interests. I would like to emphasise here that it is the task of the military observers of this mission to monitor compliance with the peace agreements in the Middle East and to prevent conflicts from escalating, as well as to help other United Nations missions in the region. In total, 24 countries contribute to this mission with more than 150 military observers. In addition to military observers, this mission consists of international civilian personnel (about 100 people) and locally employed civilian personnel. From the point of view of international law, the legal basis for this operation is UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 29 May 1948. Our participation is currently limited to one observer, but in 2013 it will not be excluded to send another observer in an analogous way to 2011 and 2012, where we had, from April to April, the position of the observer group leader in Damascus. The cost of this mission is estimated at approximately EUR 46000 in the 2013 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U318	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, now the questions! Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U319	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! Estonia has sent its Defence Forces to this region for several years already. You mentioned that the main task in this region is to monitor compliance with the peace agreements. However, we know that, at least in the last year, no peace agreements have been held in Syria. There's an obvious civil war going on there. Is it expected that the nature of this mission will change? How have the international discussions gone? As long as the UN Security Council vetoes entry to Syria, is the mission going beyond the border and nothing is being done in the crisis area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U320	Indeed, when we talk about possible military intervention by a UN mandate in the civil war in Syria, this mission is of a different nature. As the questioner pointed out, this mission is precisely an observation, a monitoring of compliance with the peace agreements, and observers do not carry weapons. Their job is to monitor the situation. Therefore, it is certainly not even conceivable to implement participants in this type of mission in any military mission to be set up in the event of any theoretical need. It does not coincide in any way with the type of mission in question and, by looking at the list of countries contributing to it, it is not conceivable to change the nature of the mission. It is and will remain a peacekeeping mission, and as such, the government will also consider sending troops there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U321	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U322	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, How high-level does Estonia contribute to this mission, i.e. what are the ranks of the Defence Forces who are on the mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U323	Thank you. We are seeking the right to send up to three members of the Defence Forces there by the deadline of the following year. This mission will also have a permanent one in the next year, but, as I emphasised, by analogy with 2012, the sending of another observer during 2013 will not be excluded. The Defence Forces are sending out good, professional, well-prepared, and seriously contributing military personnel to the quality of this mission. With regard to the ranks of the members of the Defence Forces on the mission, if necessary, I can provide specific information at a later date.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U324	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U325	Thank you. Please tell me how high the "risk" of these men in this peace-building area is and what social guarantees are in case something happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U326	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U327	Thank you. Social guarantees in cases where a military officer encounters a situation in which he is injured or killed in the performance of his duties are equal. They are in no way differentiated by missions. As far as the nature of this mission is concerned, this region is undoubtedly tense, but, as I emphasised, it is not a battle mission, it is monitoring compliance with the peace agreements. From this point of view, when we talk about the risk of being injured or of being killed, it certainly does not compare to the battle mission in Afghanistan. But for all missions, there is always a risk element, because, as I said, from a security point of view, the Middle East is still a crisis area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U328	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! We are seeing now that, unfortunately, conflicts are growing in this region and in almost all these countries. The situation is not getting any calmer there, but rather, on the contrary, much more tense. Has it been discussed to send more people from Estonia in the future as part of this mission, and do we have some kind of capacity for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U329	Thank you. No, we haven't planned this. I have indicated that we are indeed applying for a mandate to send up to three members of the Defence Forces on a mission. We have planned to continue with one of the armed forces for the time being, but as I have already said, we will not rule out that there may be a situation next year in which we are sending another member of the armed forces there. If we are to deploy more than three members of the Defence Forces, we should request a new mandate from Parliament. There is no such intention in the visible future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U330	Please, Mr Laas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U331	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I will ask your opinion as Minister. As we can see, the number of members of the Defence Forces on this mission is not high. How do you appreciate this contribution, whether it is a real contribution to the mission or whether it is rather a symbolic contribution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U332	Thank you. The mission has a total of 150 military observers. When we talk about this being a United Nations mission, I think one military observer is a real contribution. Per capita is quite a contribution, given either the gross domestic product or the population of the United Nations Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U333	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U334	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As you have heard from your response, there will be participation in the UN mission. Will the mission be financed from the budget of the Estonian state or will it be financed by the UN?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U335	Thank you. The costs of the members of the Defence Forces before and during the mission are covered by the state budget allocations of the Republic of Estonia, the budget of the Ministry of Defence. In the budget for next year, we have foreseen EUR 46000 for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U336	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U337	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As far as I know, the mission started in 1948. It's one of the tallest of all. So how long is this gonna last? How long will it take us to finish the victory?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U338	It's a question of who to keep in mind the victory. The most important thing is that this situation does not strain itself in terms of'military conflicts'. The aim is to monitor compliance with the peace agreements concluded in a fragile region of international relations such as the Middle East. When could the security situation in the Middle East become such that the need for this mission would disappear? Unfortunately, as has been pointed out here, it has to be acknowledged that in the visible future of mankind and the region, the problems there will become worse than they will find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U339	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U340	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! As we have already heard, the budget for this mission will be around EUR 46000 for the next year. Is it just salary costs, or is there some kind of special weaponry or other stuff?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U341	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U342	Thank you. Since this is a peace-building mission, these observers do not carry a weapon, but this money really includes both salary costs and the cost of supplies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U343	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As I understand it, there really is no specific country in this mission that we defend. Are they trying to act like a diplomat here to prevent conflicts?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U344	Thank you. The issue is that the wider mission of the UN is also to ensure the peaceful development of mankind. Such peace-building missions are a form of expression. Indeed, in this situation, the UN does not choose 'parties', but aims to direct the parties to the conflict to peaceful action, and peace agreements are an essential element of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U345	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U346	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Your answer to my question left my heart squealing. You said it wasn't clear who might be the winner at all. The mission is a mission, but there's a war going on, so it's still a war, no matter who carries a gun and who doesn't. Is Estonia on the winning side or on the losing side? Who will win, then, and what does Estonia have to win?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U347	Thank you. As I said, Estonia is a Member State of the United Nations. The purpose of the United Nations is the peaceful coexistence of mankind. As regards the tensions and military conflicts in the Middle East in this crisis area, the interest of the United Nations is that conflicts there will find a peaceful solution. The goal is peace agreements and compliance with them. The objective of this mission in resolving crises in the region is to contribute to the implementation of peace agreements through observation. The mission of observation is to be neutral. This is not a mission in the interests of one country or another, which would have a military objective of no. Its aim is to monitor compliance with the United Nations Peace Agreements with a mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U348	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U349	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! In those days, the Foreign Secretary of the Lebanese Christian Party is moving around Estonia, who is trying to reflect Lebanon's problem. Lebanon had been occupied by Syria for several decades and is now feeling the strong influence of a warring neighbouring country. This is reflected, for example, in the assassinations of top politicians and also in minor conflicts with human casualties. If Lebanon encounters an unstable situation due to a civil war at its borders, do you think that a small country such as Lebanon will be able to get help with a UN mandate so that its independence is not called into question by a civil war?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U350	Thank you. When we talk about a specific observation mission, during this mission, where Estonia has participated, among other things, in Lebanon, Estonian Defence Forces have so far acted as observers. As regards the military mission under the UN Charter and the possible contribution of the UN to this, I would not like to comment on that in detail. This is a specific case and a forum for discussion by the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U351	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. I call for a presentation by my colleague, Ülo Tulik, a member of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U352	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision was also discussed by the National Defence Committee before it was presented to the first reading. a meeting on 12 and 15 November. The Government of the Republic was represented by the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu at the meeting of the Commission on the 12th date and Riho Rõngulep, Head of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence. The draft can also be considered to be related to the draft. a meeting of the National Defence Commission on 4 December, where we received, among other things, an overview from military officers of this UN-led peacekeeping mission, short of UNTSO. As the Minister of Defence made a very thorough presentation, there is no point in repeating it here. Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in this mission since 1997. Once again, this is the United Nations' purely so-called 'blue helmet observation mission'. The National Defence Committee decided s. At its meeting on 12 and 15 November 2012, by consensus, the Riigikogu Board was invited to include this draft decision for the first reading on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 5 December 2012. A speaker was appointed to serve as a waitress for the National Defence Committee. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to present the draft as amended at first reading. The amendments to the text of the draft are, in particular, specific and technical and made on the recommendation of Aivar Engel, Head of Advisor-Secretariat of the National Defence Commission, on the basis of the rules of the norm of the draft Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic, according to which the publication of the Official Journal may be used to distinguish the laws in order to refer to the original text. In general, however, publication in the Official Journal of the State is not used because it has informative meaning. Legally, this draft extends the mandate of the UNTSO granted by the Riigikogu until the end of this year, which is why the draft has been amended accordingly. The author of the bill supports the presentation of the draft as amended at first reading. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the first reading of this draft decision and, on the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. 12 December at 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U353	Thank you very much, Mr Tulik. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U354	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good colleague! Really, it is a pleasure to hear such good insights from the remote. I know you've been to see a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. Do you have any experience you would like to share with regard to the four countries listed in this bill? Perhaps you would like to say something more from the Commission or from yourself to the Chamber so that we really support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U355	Thank you for your question. My own experience in warfare is very modest and I do not want to brag about it here, but Captain Morel has been to the Commission, who, just after participating in the mission, gave us an overview of what was happening there. We have also met Viljandi's defence ally who participated in this mission. So these men's experiences are recorded, and their experiences are certainly much greater than mine.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U356	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U357	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would have liked to ask what the Defence League said about the war, but actually I'm asking a different question. We're extending this mission again, but did this mission contribute in any way to the release of these cyclists' hostages?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U358	Thank you. As far as I know, this mission didn't help freeing the cyclists.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U359	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Commission waitress! Military observers participating in the UNTSO observation mission shall be responsible for monitoring compliance with peace agreements in the Middle East and for preventing conflict escalation. Estonia has been sending military observers there since 1997. This bill extends the participation of Estonian soldiers there at least until the end of next year. Did you discuss in the Commission the position on how long it is actually planned to take part in this mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U361	Thank you. We did not discuss this in the Commission. We were talking about a one-year extension after all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U362	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Tulik. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Mr Aivar Riisalu, a colleague of the premiere, as a representative of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U363	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. The deployment of Estonian officers helps to strengthen Estonia's contribution to the UN's activities in securing peace. Creating stability in the conflict-stricken Middle East region is also a direct security interest in Estonia. It is also important to participate in UN missions, based on Estonia's foreign and security policy decisions to increase its visibility and reputation in the United Nations, in order to achieve the UN Security Council's non-permanent membership by 2020 to 2021. It's a dry-cancétal text that will be put on your desks in dealing with such missions. Indeed, these principles, which I have just repeated, do not need any comments. After all, they are basically understandable to all of us and, in fact, very comfortable with the copy-paste method to be included each year in the draft renewal of the mission. But let's be honest, once again it may not be possible for a good Estonian person to understand why we must have such a mandate given to up to three members of the Defence Forces. Physically, there's a guy over there, like a blue helmet on his head, he doesn't have a gun right, so why does he have to be there? As we can see from the explanatory memorandum, it costs us EUR 46000 per year. For a regular person, it also seems to be a relatively large sum of money; none of us would object if he had that kind of money in his wallet. Look, life isn't that simple. If we are going to go in depth on this, we will see which region we are dealing with. Indeed, observers have been present since 1948. To be honest, the problems with the region began already when Moses went through the Red Sea and spread the water like two leaves, it returned, so that the Egyptian troops could not pursue the Jewish people leaving their ancient homeland. Whether we like it or not, today's world must, as a result of this visit to King Moses, regulate one of the greatest tension zones at all times. If we look at things calmly now, it also seems from the newspapers that Israel may at some point have a plan to attack Iran as well. Can and can we regulate these processes and at least have a say if we do not know, first of all, what is going on there? Can we have a say if we do not contribute to peace in such regions? I can't. One of our men on this mission can replace a great power when the stars are in good shape, because this one man gives us a clear knowledge of what is actually happening in this region. Recently, the Commission has also dealt with another draft as a matter of urgency, where we sent an observer to Syria. Exactly the same region. It was a very experienced mission officer who, after returning, told us in the Commission what was actually happening in Syria. I am not going to describe what is actually happening in Syria in this remote control. I'm making sure I'm running out of time. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U364	Are you taking it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U365	I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U366	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U367	Thank you. We found out in the Commission what was really going on in Syria. I assure you that this region is certainly one of the most dangerous in the world, next to Afghanistan. I have always asked my colleagues the question that if we leave Afghanistan properly in 2014, where will our next war be? Because participating in missions is really important to us. The only thing I don't want is if this war were for us in this region of the Middle East, there in Syria, Iraq, Iran, the Israeli sector. For the simple reason that the war there would still be very harsh. These contradictions, which have been programmed within this region, are very deep, lasting for thousands of years and are likely to last for a long time. After all, in order to guarantee the stability of the world, we can say today that it is sometimes difficult to even choose a position. If we try to listen to experts who say which solution in the Middle East topic would be the best, then one expert has told us very clearly in the Commission that perhaps a moderate dictatorship in the Arab world would be even better than an uncontrolled confrontation. Therefore, I think it is necessary to ask the almighty one, which I don't think is very reasonable to do in the material world, so that the situation in this region does not get out of control. Certainly the presence of blue helmets there, the 24 countries there are, at the moment, sufficient for us to have a clear view of what is happening in this area and for the world to be able to react when there is a real need for it. I have a deep concern because, some time ago, when we heard from Syria as if at all times in an operational manner, there is no such place now in the Syrian internal conflict in the press, at least not in Estonia. In Estonia, it is the internal affairs of one party that play an important role in the media. I don't like the fact that they're at the top of the press. I would like the press to focus on a set of problems that will help our country to last, survive and continue to function. Therefore, I am still of the opinion and dare say to my partymates who have asked here that if the mission has lasted for as long as it will last. I am of the opinion that this mission must be allowed to last as long as it is necessary, and as long as it is necessary, it makes sense for us to be there, because if we are there, we know what is really going on there. Our contribution is small, but solid and reliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U368	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 314 amendments on 12 December 2012 at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U369	We move to the fifth item, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of NATO's reaction forces', submitted by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, please present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U370	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic shall request a mandate from Parliament in order to extend the deadline for the deployment of the Defence Forces in the NATO response forces. NATO's response forces are a high-level and fast-removal unit capable of carrying out military operations anywhere in the world. It is also an important element in the rapid launch of NATO's collective defence operations, should this be necessary. It is therefore in the direct interest of the Estonian state to ensure the operational capacity of the NRF, or rapid reaction forces. In 2013, Estonia wishes to contribute up to 20 defence forces to the NATO response force unit: the demining unit, the intelligence unit and the logistics units. According to the International Military Cooperation Act, the procedure for using this force looks like this: the North Atlantic Council decides with one voice to use this force, which means that it can only happen if Estonia agrees. As this is a rapid reaction force in five days' readiness and they are located in Estonia during the preparation period, the Minister of Defence, in coordination with the Foreign Minister, will instruct the Defence Forces unit to start participating in an international military operation. Such arrangements shall be communicated without delay to the President, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U371	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U372	Dear Minister, Is there a concrete plan within the framework of NATO's rapid reaction forces to implement the NRF in Estonia if it really is needed? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U373	Concerning the Baltic states, NATO has drawn up defence plans, and in the event of a military attack against the Republic of Estonia, NATO's collective defence system is in place, which includes the military forces of NATO Member States. What are these specific entities, secret information at NATO level, but undoubtedly also the quick-removal unit that the NRF represents, plays a very practical and concrete role in the implementation of the collective defence system. In November, a exercise took place in Steadfast Juncture 2012, where the Ämari air base practiced how the NRF forces would help Estonia. This was the most important, highest and highest level exercise that NATO has ever organised in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U374	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U375	Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. Can you estimate how quickly our military personnel, who are involved in this action, will arrive in the field response area from the moment the order is given? I am not asking about NATO NRF as a whole, but specifically about Estonian participants.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U376	If military personnel have to go to a specific operation, this readiness is five days for Estonian units. This is the NRF's rapid response capability. The unit with additional response capability must be ready to move to the crisis area within 10 to 30 days. However, Estonia can also ensure five-day preparedness. It's a high level of readiness. In short, five days is the time that may take to go to the crisis area as much as possible. If possible, this includes transport time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U377	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U378	Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the title of this draft decision, which should also determine the content of the decision. The draft originally submitted to us is entitled 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the NATO response forces'. Later this title has become 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the NATO response forces'. Which, then, is it: an extension of the deadline or is it some sort of new mission where the Estonian Defence Forces will be deployed? Why the change of title?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U379	We intend to continue to participate in this type of mission as we do this year, because we attach great importance to this country's defence capabilities. This year, on average, our contribution to this mission will be 35 members of the Defence Forces. The difference is that this year we contributed to the mine hunter Sakala, next year, as I said, our contribution is to the demining unit, the intelligence unit and the logistics. This led to this correction. On the mission we will continue, but our contribution will be different.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U380	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U381	Mr. Secretary of Defense! What equipment are guaranteed for the Defence Forces participating in the NRF, and what is their level of equipment compared to other NATO countries? Are we on an equal footing with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U382	Yes, we are. Our equipment meets NATO's general requirements for specific capabilities and training.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U383	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U384	Good minister! Please tell me how many military operations the Estonian NRF has participated in during the years when we have been a member of NATO.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U385	Estonia has not participated in military operations within the NRF.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U386	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U387	Dear Minister, Although it is relatively difficult, especially in detail, to predict, I ask: what is the expected cost of this mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U388	The possible deployment of the NRF during the military operation during the preparedness period will entail additional costs that cannot be clearly predicted, since everything depends on the specific area of operation and the intensity of the operation. These possible additional costs will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Defence's administration and, in order to be able to do so, the draft State Budget Act 2013 provides for the Government's right to make changes to the administrative distribution of the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence's administration in the event of deployment of members of the Defence Forces in the NRF for an international military operation during the financial year, as well as the division between the articles, articles and articles. In other words, if this is necessary, we will use this money. Parliament's mandate, which we have requested in the State Budget Act, provides for the possibility that we can internalise our sums.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U389	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U390	Dear Minister, After all, the purpose of this mission is primarily the ability to react quickly. We both understand that the military are ready to react quickly and intervene operationally when the need arises. But in the case of Estonia, can't it stay behind political decisions and therefore help is too late? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U391	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U392	One thing is a military operation, but there may undoubtedly be a need to use rapid response even in the event of civilian disasters. Undoubtedly, the decision will be taken unanimously by the North Atlantic Council. The decision is always very important because it concerns the use of military force and has a very serious political and human dimension. Therefore, such decisions will certainly be considered seriously. But I am sure that when it comes to implementing NATO's collective defence, Estonia certainly considers it necessary to support it clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U393	My question relates to the previous question. It is still really interesting how quickly this NRF should come to the aid of Estonia when the need arises. Is there a time of ownership? Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U394	The general principle for the NRF model is that 13000 military rapid response units, or NRF, must be ready to move to the crisis area within 5 to 10 days. The additional response unit must be ready to move to the crisis area within 10 to 30 days to support this first unit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U395	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U396	Good minister! We are taking such a hypothetical situation that peace and security in Estonia are at risk, or there is a conflict. Will Estonian members of this rapid response unit also be used in such a conflict? We do not know what circumstances are at stake, and what internal tensions may occur here, who knows how they behave. Is there a decision on how the participants sent by the state concerned, such as Estonian citizens in Estonia and Americans, will be used to solve the problem of peace and security in the U.S. territory?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U397	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U398	If this unit is run again every year, the formation period is one year, then it becomes a collective force. Therefore, under normal circumstances, it does not matter which country of dispatch is included in the nationality or military structure. For example, if there is a need to implement the NRF on the territory of Latvia, the Latvian Defence Forces, who have been seconded to the NRF for that period, will also participate in the task of the NRF on the territory of Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U399	Minister, thank you very much. The answer has already sounded from some angle here, but let me ask you a little bit more specific. The explanatory memorandum states that the NRF will be decided unanimously by the North Atlantic Council. This means that there must also be Estonia's consent for all of them, which I do not doubt very much, because in general we have agreed nicely to decide on all NATO matters. However, we cannot be sure that if we urgently need help, there will be a common agreement. We are always in agreement when we are young, but some large ones may have other thoughts and a number of questions. If we urgently need help, but unanimity is not achieved, we will not receive support. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U400	The North Atlantic Council must act unanimously. NATO is based on the principle that Member States are prepared to contribute to collective protection and thereby increase their own military security, and I think that this principle will also apply. As far as practical examples are concerned, I can give an example of the realisation of Article 4 in favour of Turkey - all Member States have expressed their support for this. We spoke before about the Afghanistan mission. All Member States also contribute to this, even though political support in different countries is rather volatile. The Afghan mission required the implementation of NATO's collective defence after the attack on the twin towers. So NATO's value as a military bloc is that it is prepared to jointly ensure each other's security. The decision to use military force is undoubtedly a compelling decision, but we have no reason to expect our partners to hesitate, for some reason, to make the necessary decision to protect us. But this, in turn, requires our responsibility and capacity to do so in support of our partners and joint missions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U401	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U402	Good minister! I want to ask you about this five-day response time. In my understanding, rapid response is within hours, not days. Is five days the maximum time and, however, is it usually the case that forces are concentrated more quickly in the area of crisis? Or is it that they gather in five days and then give battle?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U403	In a hypothetical situation where a political mandate is given and an order to use the NRF is, of course, the maximum time of five days that the Member States must keep the units ready. If the units can be deployed within a shorter period of time, then of course they will not have to wait five days and will depend on the practical operation plan. Five days is the maximum period during which the Republic of Estonia must be able to ensure the operation of this contingent within the NRF.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U404	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U405	Dear Minister of Defence! In 2013, Estonia wishes to contribute to the peace-building mission with a total of 20 members of the Defence Forces. The explanatory memorandum says it's a demining unit, a intelligence unit, and a logistics team. Can you tell me how many specialists specifically are sent to one specialty or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U406	Indeed, the total number is 20 members of the armed forces, including the demineters, the safeners, and the medical team. A more precise breakdown was also discussed in the Committee on National Defence, and the rapporteur of the Commission will give a more precise overview of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U407	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U408	Minister, thank you very much. I repeat my previous question concerning the title of this draft decision. Originally, it had a word set of 'deadline', now it has become 'for use of the Defence Forces'. The extension is gone. Your answer was that the title has changed because our contribution is somewhat different than in the past. But the contributions of other missions are different every year. We send one or two or three men there, although three are allowed, and we still call it an extension. Is that really the only reason why the title of this bill has changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U409	Yeah, that's the only reason. For example, when we're talking about a company in Afghanistan, the company is one of the military capabilities we're providing. And this year, our contribution to the NRF mission in Afghanistan will indeed be a warship, and next year, it will be demineering, and they will be very different military capabilities in character.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U410	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U411	Good minister! The 20 armed forces we're talking about, how are they elected? Are they volunteers, or are they going by order? And do they take women there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U412	There is no gender restriction on the collection of the NRF in either our country's internal or NATO regulations. These are professional defence forces, and taking up professional defence service is voluntary in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U413	Dear Minister, I thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U414	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft, as did all the drafts relating to the mission before being sent to first reading at its meeting on 12 and 15 November. The draft was explained by the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and the Head of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence Riho Rõngelep. At its meeting on 12 November, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that this draft decision be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 21 November for the first reading. The date of first reading was amended in accordance with the decision of the Committee on National Defence of 15 November, by 5 December. It was also decided by consensus to present this draft as amended at first reading, with the initiator supporting the amendments. The draft was also directly related to the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 4 December, where the Commission received an overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of the preparations for the participation of the Defence Forces in international missions areas, including Estonian units to participate in the NRF. More about the general principles of the draft. Estonia's participation in NATO's response forces, or NRF, is due to our NATO membership. All NATO countries contribute to the NRF, except Iceland, which does not have its own defence forces. The NRF's response forces are also crucial to the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, if that is necessary. Therefore, participation in the NRF is also related to Estonia's security. NATO response teams may be used for collective self-defence operations under the NATO Treaty as set out in Chapters VI and VII of the Charter of the United Nations. The use of the NRF will be decided unanimously by the NATO Council, which means that the use of the NRF can only take place if Estonia also gives its consent. In view of the above, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus at its meeting on 12 and 15 November to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading this draft decision and ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set the deadline of 12 December at 17. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U415	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U416	Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Minister of Defence, the Commission discussed how the 20 members of the Defence Forces are to be deployed to the peacekeeping mission in 2013. Can you tell me how these 20 people are divided by their specialties?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U417	When we talk about the NRF team, so much for clarification that they are only on standby and will remain in Estonia for the time being. They're not going anywhere. As far as the specific allocation is concerned, we have not deepened this defence committee. We fully trust the experts of the General Staff, who have the relevant skills, training and experience. We are convinced that these posts are well distributed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U418	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U419	Dear Commission waitress, Would you like to shed some light on how the Commission's views on this draft developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U420	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U421	This is not the first mission. Estonia has been in the NRF for years, and so our positions were unanimous. Only the issue of the title already addressed by the Minister of Defence was the subject of debate. Can we say that we will extend the mandate if we actually replace the Marines and the nature of the functions is different? This is where the relevant decisions were born, which are reflected in the draft as amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U422	Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! I happen to have a agenda on this table that was distributed on Monday at the beginning of the week. The current item was to be on the agenda on Wednesday and the Commission's decision that the rapporteur was Lauri Laasi, member of the National Defence Commission. Please explain when this decision was changed and why!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U423	This decision was reversed at the extraordinary meeting of the Commission on Wednesday 5 December, on which Protocol 115 relates. The reason could be that these unusually long sessions, which, apart from a meaningful debate, have occasionally been filled with ten-minute breaks, have, to some extent, broken our otherwise consensual committee's working arrangements. These decisions were taken in order not to allow the debate to prevail at the time. For my part, I promise to do all I can to ensure that, in the future, when these difficult times in this large Chamber are over, the Commission's unanimity will be guaranteed again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U424	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U425	Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! To quote Trivimi Velliste, the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu has been acting with respect to the principle of consensus for 20 years. Now, in order to be more comfortable in handling these points and, in fact, without knowing for sure, that Lauri Laasi would have responded very much more closely here than you, you violated this principle of consensus. Is it true that you were given such an order? Or did you make such a decision at the Wednesday session because you yourself need to catch the plane at 7 a.m. and you want these questions to be dealt with very quickly without any discussion of the substance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U426	The principle of consensus has been and will continue to apply to a very large extent. The fact that the National Defence Committee has never voted in these decades is not really true. When you come to the nature of the problem, it is a situation where debate and time have begun to compete. And time has, unfortunately, been more priority in many cases than debate, and that is why we made the decision. However, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the opposition, because at least all the items on the agenda on which we have talked about extending the mandates have indeed been furnished with a debate. There hasn't been any talk about the purpose of stretching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U427	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Aivar Riisalu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U428	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U429	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U430	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The establishment of NATO response forces was decided at the Prague Summit in 2002. The NRF is a high-level and fast-removal unit capable of carrying out military operations anywhere in the world. The NRF is also an important force for the rapid launch of NATO collective defence operations, if that is necessary. Thus, ensuring the operational capacity of the NRF is directly in the interests of the Estonian state. The preparedness period for NRF units shall be one year, from 1 January to 31 December. From the beginning of 2012, a renewed NRF model will be used, according to which the NRF core, in addition to the NATO control component, will comprise the following two units: a 13000 military rapid response unit, which must be ready to move to the crisis area within five to ten days, and, secondly, an additional response unit prepared by the Member States, which must be ready to move to the crisis area within 10 to 30 days to support rapid response units. This is a classic example of the text of the draft law with which we give a mandate to participate in the NRF. Reading these lines in this way does not seem to be an interesting document at all. Someone's setting up a unit somewhere, somebody's out there helping somebody. But let's think about what this NRF really means from a human point of view and human languages. Paragraph 5, which would ensure the involvement of NATO members in any NATO Member State, should it be attacked, may seem distant and unfathomable to a normal person. The question may arise more about how this can be done so quickly that no army can be moved than should be needed in the event of an emergency. Jne. Look, if we don't think about it, we feel that collective protection is not physically possible. But as we delve into this very rapid reaction capability, we realise that it is primarily applicable to NATO members if someone were to commit military aggression against them. There's a pretty strange situation in the world today. Recently, when I went on a state visit in Germany with my colleagues, I was pretty impressed with the fact that I hadn't thought in depth about Germany because the Germans didn't have the staff to organise national protection. It is true that they make a very substantial contribution to various missions around the world, both in NATO and the UN. The debate with our colleagues in Parliament looked something like this: what you Estonians are capable of. What are your chances and abilities? When we were able to shove the chest and say that we had 4,000 campers, we had 3,500 conscripts in the military service every year, we had a reserve army of several tens of thousands and 12,000 active members of the Defence League, it had a convincing and understandable effect on our German colleagues. True, they asked some irony about who you were going to fight. I don't want to repeat that here, which I said to them, but I think the threat that we've been sent in history has come to everyone's attention. You see, a small country also needs to send its people to a rapid reaction force that big countries contribute to, who, thanks to the existence of safe neighbours, no longer have to think every day about protecting their country. In the case of the Germans, it came out very clearly, they can afford the luxury. But we must also contribute to national protection, not in the sense that we are fighting against our own people. Above all, we must not retreat from our national defence concept, which I have repeated several times today. I'm thinking of relying on our three pillars. The best example is that the people commented with irony on the purchase of our three mine hunters, even though they have been one of the biggest contributions of our defence forces to the rapid reaction forces. These mine hunters are the capacity that a small country can afford. The amounts for which these ships were produced were quite awe - inspiring, and we cannot afford any more. And our professional mine-hunting teams have also shown themselves to be very good at international level. For this reason, I dare say that such a small contribution to the rapid reaction forces, which guarantee global peace in the world, gives us the right to be equal even as a small one. One of the considerable capabilities that Estonia has offered to the world is the special promotionists, both through the Defence Forces and the Rescue Board. As a country, we have behaved very adequately in this sense. I am pleased to thank my current boss, Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Committee, for the fact that the Rescue Board, while he was still its Director-General, also developed a considerable degree of specialism. For example, in Afghanistan, Estonia's contribution in the form of civil separators was, by the way, much more operational than NATO could do. Mines are the greatest threat to the civilian population in today's world. And in all military preparation and spending money, it does not make much sense if we fail to guarantee our basic task of peace and security. It doesn't make sense if we can't guarantee a safe environment for civilians in an area where they're used to living. I call on all political parties to support our contribution to the NATO Rapid Response Force and to extend the mission for the next year and, if necessary, for the long years, because, being small but good, we are equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U431	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 315 amendments on 12 December 2012 at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U432	We go to the sixth item, which is the first reading of draft 316 of the Riigikogu's decision of the Government of the Republic to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the European Union Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta. I give the floor to Secretary of Defense Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U433	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic will request next year to extend our participation in the European Union Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta, which is about ensuring the security of navigation on the coast of Somalia in the Horn of Africa. This is the European Union's most important military operation and it should be recalled that at political level Estonia was among the first to raise the need for anti-piracy action in the European Union. Estonia has contributed to the operation of Atalanta since the end of 2010 with a ship protection team of ten, to which some contact officers may be added. The draft provides for an extension of the use of up to 15 members of the Defence Forces in the composition of the Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta from 1 January until the end of the year. I have to admit, this mission has been a success. Mostly World Food Programme vessels are escorted, but protection has also been provided for African Union mission shipments. The ship protection team protects the ships during an agreed period, which usually lasts from a few days to a week. The task of the unit is to guard the maritime space, communication, advance warning and, if necessary, to protect the ship with weapons. The cost of the mission for the participation of the Defence Forces in Atalanta will be EUR 607000 for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U434	Minister, there are questions for you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U435	Dear Minister, My question is this: have the Estonian pirate defence teams also had a firefight with pirates on their missions? And if so, when and have there been casualties?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U436	As far as the gunfights are concerned, there were indeed real military situations in connection with pirate arrest operations, in cooperation with Germany and France, which had recently returned from their mission. As for whether the marines who participated in our mission have been injured or killed, I can assure you that there have been no casualties on these missions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U437	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U438	Good minister! It has come to our attention that this mission we are discussing here will be the last one. So what's the last reason this is gonna be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U439	No, we plan to continue. As regards, more broadly, the political intention of the European Union to continue the Atalanta mission, it is based on UN Security Council resolutions and, according to current practice, the mandate of the Security Council has been extended shortly before its conclusion. By decision of the Council of the European Union of 23 March 2012, the mandate of Operation Atalanta has been extended until 12 December 2014. We make decisions year by year. We consider it important to participate in the European Union's most important military mission and we intend to do so next year. We have no intention of ending our participation in this mission in the next year, but Parliament will, of course, decide on 2014. In 2013, we intend to contribute to the current volume of ship protection teams.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U440	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U441	Good minister! I read in the draft explanatory statement that the participants in the operation may apprehend, arrest and hand over pirates to persons suspected of having committed pirate attacks or armed robbery. At the same time, it has been said that prisoners can be tried in any country. In the case of Operation Atalanta, this means, in particular, that detainees can be tried in the country where the persons were detained. I'm asking you, if that's what you could say, but how successful have we been? How many pirates have been arrested, how many have been tried, and how many have been convicted?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U442	The units in which the Estonian ship defence team has participated in this work have significant results in the detention of pirates, including the last of our missions, from which they returned in November. If you want a specific bill, it is certainly possible to inform Members of this in greater detail. Statistics on the attacks of pirates on the mission, the arrest of pirates and preventive action can be further transmitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U443	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U444	Minister, thank you very much. It is, of course, amazing that in the 21st century, the fight against pirates must be tackled. The damage they have caused is certainly enormous compared to the ransom that the crews of the hijacked ships will have to pay. After all, cargoes and ships may be standing for weeks and months and are making losses all the time. In the 17th-18th century, cargo ships were equipped with cannons to combat pirates successfully. Would it not be more reasonable to provide cargo ships passing through dangerous areas, for example, with grenade launchers, which are quite easy to use? Some crew members could take a course and be prepared to defend the ship themselves. Has this solution not been discussed somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U445	There are a wide range of measures in the field of the fight against piracy. Firstly, the military capabilities of the countries contributing to the mission, of course. Secondly, involving private security companies. And thirdly, the protective equipment placed on the ships. I have to admit, Atalanta's mission has been successful. The number of so-called successful or successful hijacking attacks decreased almost twice last year: 49 in 2010 and 28 in 2011. Yes, I fully agree with the questioner that such crime has a significant impact on the economy first, but of course it also has an obvious humanitarian aspect. After all, this is also a threat to escorting ships launched under the World Food Programme. I would like to stress that our marines support a mission of a humanitarian nature. The aim is to protect ships that deliver food collected under the World Food Programme to the Somali famine. But the second aspect is undoubtedly the situation on land. These pirates don't come out of the water or off the water, they still come from the mainland. That is why it is also important for the European Union for this mission, which concerns action against piracy on land. This, too, is certainly well needed to prevent piracy more in the region.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U446	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U447	Mr. Secretary of Defense! This draft is already dealing with several missions, but unlike the previous ones, the mandate is set to begin in February. Would you please explain why it is different from the previous ones? Why is there no need to extend the mandate from January this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U448	Indeed, next year we intend to send up to fifteen marines to Atalanta on a mission. So far, we were mainly part of the German unit, but now we are determined to do so in the French unit. The period of participation in the mission shall be coordinated in bilateral negotiations with France.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U449	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U450	Mr. Secretary of Defense! It is known that the defence forces involved in the fight against piracy are also well-rated people in the private sector. How can the public sector compete with the private sector in this area? It is known that many people have left the Defence Forces and gone to work in the private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U451	Yes, it is true that there are private security companies on such sensitive missions. This concerns Afghanistan, and it also concerns the same protection of ships by private security companies. Security companies offer big salaries, and our defence forces have gone to their service. In the case of the Defence Forces, it is important that we be able to motivate people and provide them with a good experience. This is certainly one of the issues that we intend to address next year in the framework of the general human resources policy with wage reform. Wages should be competitive in the eyes of educated, professional members of the Defence Forces in the long term, but it is clear that this is not conceivable in such a rolling comparison. Just as in any area of life anywhere in the world, there are large differences in income. However, as regards the participation of Estonian Defence Forces in missions, in addition to the basic salary, a corresponding coefficient of mission fee is provided for in their time. It should also be a certain motivator.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U452	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U453	Dear Minister, A total of EUR 607000 has been planned for participation in this mission in 2013 from the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Can you tell me how much money has been allocated over the past few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U454	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U455	The amounts have remained in the same order of magnitude since the nature of the mission and the number of members of the Defence Forces have been more or less the same. Precise figures can be provided in writing if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U456	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question is a non-military question. Our 15 armed forces are working, and we have to pay for this job. Private companies that do the same work employ people who do the same work, earn income for companies and pay for themselves. If it wasn't for profit, the companies wouldn't make sense because they don't make a profit. Does the state get anything with this job or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U457	In a very large way, our participation in this mission is linked to the livelihood and well-being of all mankind, especially the peoples of the region. As has already been said, peace is at stake on the maritime routes to which the whole world economy is linked. The peoples of the region must be rescued from the humanitarian disaster and the European Union is ready to contribute as a political bloc in order for food aid to reach them. This is our joint responsibility. As I emphasised, the European Union also has a common military and security policy dimension. The Republic of Estonia is interested in developing this dimension and it is therefore appropriate that, just as we and our unit are participating in NATO's largest military mission, we do so in the European Union's largest military mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U458	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U459	Mr. Secretary of Defense! You mentioned that this mission is the task of our unit to participate in the French unit. At the same time, I have noted the news that, despite the large budget volume of the Ministry of Defence, you have decided to use 2% of GDP to start saving for a defence attaché in Paris. Can you say that this is not true and that it is also important for you to maintain contact with such an ally?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U460	I must admit that our defence priority in the coming years will be our military defence. As regards bilateral relations, including collective defence relations, France is an important strategic partner for us. The membership of the French unit on the Atalanta mission is a good example of this. Last week, a common security policy seminar between the Baltic States and France was held, which has become a good practice. I can pass on a positive message from Parliament's speech chair to the seminar that France has decided to join our NATO Cyber Defence Centre. This confirms that we are good strategic partners in military cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U461	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U462	Good minister! I will continue with Kadri Samson's question. As far as the National Defence Committee is concerned, the main reason why our mission with the French in Atalanta next year will be three months instead of six months, and the next mission does not really seem to us at all, is that our military attaché in France will only be here one week a month. It's obviously too little to maintain a relationship. Is this fact known to you, and how do you comment on it? What conclusion can be drawn from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U463	As regards cooperation with the French State in the implementation of this mission, I can say that we had quite serious negotiations on how France can ensure logistics so that Estonia can participate in this mission precisely with this type of ship protection team. We have reached a general agreement, and this agreement was with the deadline it says here. I can say that bilateral communication with the French has been immediate, and I had an in-depth discussion with the French Minister for Defence at the last meeting of the European Union's defence ministers on Atalanta. This cooperation is a matter, France has set out its vision of how we can act in this mission, and I am sure that we will find a sensible and optimal solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U464	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U465	Mr. Minister! I realized from what you said that the place of a defence attaché in Paris was going to be laid off, but now it seems that defence contacts with France are still important and should not be underestimated at all. Why don't you reconsider and find the money to keep the defense Attaché going in Paris?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U466	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U467	The Estonian defence Attaché is doing a very good job. It is clear that our network of international military cooperation is based, on the one hand, on the existence of defence Attachés and, on the other, on the direct cooperation that we are doing both bilaterally and within the framework of international security relations. As I said, our strategy is indeed, by pooling resources, a priority to develop'military protection'. As regards the defence Attaché in France, this decision will be renegotiated in the near future. As far as the attachés are concerned, I can say that we certainly take into account that optimal relations with strategic partners also require attachés. Under no circumstances can this relationship network be damaged, that is definitely what we mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U468	Dear Minister of Defence! Doesn't it hurt your heart that no member of your party will be present if there is a debate on foreign missions in this Chamber? What will you tell them if we finish this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U469	I say that they would support the approval of this mission in the vote. Like other missions, this is necessary for our international defence cooperation. It is necessary that Estonia also contributes to the European Union's military cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U470	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U471	Good minister! I'm asking for the name of this operation, Atalanta. It is known to come from ancient Greek mythology. It's a character, a female hunter who was later turned into a lioness, and that means 'balance' in Greek. Can you tell me why this operation is called Atalanta?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U472	Thank you. I've thought about it myself, and I haven't found a solution. I admit openly, I do not have any information on this. If necessary, the Ministry of Defence shall conduct research and transmit information to Parliament in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U473	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U474	Good minister! Our involvement in anti-piracy operations is likely to involve some costs. I'm sure they're classified, and you won't tell us, but you do. The question is whether the costs that Estonia bears as a result of its participation in the fight against piracy are in any way correlated with the losses suffered by Estonia in relation to piracy. Piracy damage and anti-piracy costs - which amount is higher, which is lower?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U475	I say that the cost which the Republic of Estonia bears in connection with this mission is completely public, that is 607000 euros. This money will be used for the remuneration, equipment, transportation and other logistical support of the members of the Defence Forces participating in the mission. What is so-called our income? Our income is that the European Union contributes to military cooperation and does so in an effective and rational way. As a Member State of the European Union, this is certainly in our interest; we want the military and security dimension of the European Union to develop. As a humane society, we are undoubtedly interested in ensuring that there are no humanitarian disasters in this region, so that food aid reaches the starving people. Of course, all of this is also linked to the global economy, and so it affects all countries of the world, the pirates' attacks are undoubtedly damaging to maritime transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U476	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U477	Minister, thank you very much. It is also known that private capital-based companies provide security services and fight pirates in the same area. Perhaps you can explain whether these two things are very different? Do you consider the contribution of private companies to making this area safer a good initiative, or is it rather negative, as the media have been through, because the defence forces are simply being lured away by soldiers? What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U478	I certainly don't disparage it. This is one element that helps to ensure security. As I said, the number of successful attacks by pirates has decreased, and this, firstly, thanks to military security in the course of the Atalanta mission, but also thanks to the involvement of private security companies and to the protection measures put in place by shipowners themselves. It is clear that, above all, the interests of businesses are at stake, who are interested in protecting their property, but also the countries want to contribute to general security. Of course, as Minister of Defence, I am interested in the long-term involvement of talented, educated, well-trained men and women in the Defence Forces. This requires, above all, the defence forces to be a motivating environment in terms of both staff policy and wage conditions. At the same time, it is clear that there are certain levels of pay where national competition is not conceivable. The Estonian Defence Forces, the Estonian public sector, will never be able to pay the wages that private entrepreneurs can afford. The same can be said of the differences in the level of income of defence forces in other countries and private security companies. I hope that those men and women who have gone from the Defence Forces to the private sector for a short time will later consider applying their experience in the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U479	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U480	Very good answer! I would like to ask if you hadn't considered in the ministry that there could be some kind of cooperation between the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Forces and their security companies. When the Defence Forces arrive from missions, they need new challenges and maybe going back on the mission now is not everyone's first choice. Perhaps it would be reasonable to cooperate with the Defence Forces to work in the private sector for a shorter period of time, but if necessary, they will return to the Defence Forces? Perhaps such agreements could be concluded with companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U481	Certainly, our attitude is not hostile or derogatory. We are a free society where people choose their own self-realization opportunities, where undoubtedly a proper economic motivation is playing a major role, which private security companies can offer for a short period of time. It's a reality. But my interest as Minister of Defence is that people associate their future with the Defence Forces and use the acquired long-term experience of national defence in the Defence Forces. However, I repeat, a hostile attitude would certainly be the wrong angle. Once again, if these people have any such interest, and if they can be used in the Defence Forces, they are welcome to return to the service of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U482	Dear Minister, I thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Ms Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Committee, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U483	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 12 and 15 November before submitting it to the first reading. On 12 November, the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and the Head of the Department of Defence and Operations Riho Rõngulep took part in the draft. The draft also involved the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 4 December, where the Commission received an overview from representatives of the Defence Forces of the international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces, including Atalanta. According to the draft decision, the Estonian ship defence team, or LKM, would continue in VPD, the European Union anti-piracy operation Atalanta. The latter is the European Union's most important military operation. It is also the first military maritime operation of the European Union. As a Member State of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to implement the European Union's common security and defence policy, including participation in Operation Atalanta. Operation Atalanta shall be conducted in accordance with Articles 100 et seq of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982. The Council of the European Union extended its s. a Decision of 23 March 2014 on the mandate of Operation Atalanta until 12 December 2014. In addition to the draft explanatory memorandum, I note that on 21 November the United Nations Security Council extended the mandate of Atalanta for 12 months. Next year, the Estonian ship defence team will participate in the LKM-5 mission as part of the French warship team. According to information received from representatives of the Defence Forces, participation in Atalanta is expected to be the last one next year. The cost of participating in the LKM-5 mission, as we have just heard from the Minister's presentation, is EUR 607000. At its meetings, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus on 12 and 15 November to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft decision be included on the agenda of the 5 December session of the Riigikogu for the first reading. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. In addition, the lead committee decided by consensus to present the draft as amended at first reading. The amendments are in line with the regulations on the drafts of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic, and have been made on the recommendation of Aivar Engel, Head of the Adviser-Secretariat of the National Defence Commission. The author of the bill supports the presentation of the draft as amended at first reading. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading this draft decision and ask the President of the Riigikogu to set the deadline of 12 December at 17. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U484	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U485	Dear Commission waitress, Hopefully, some pirates have also been caught in this fight against piracy. Have they been judged and, if so, where?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U486	56 pirates have been detained, as far as I know. A trial has also taken place on European soil, the Netherlands, and pirates are imprisoned there. One trial of pirates, for example, has taken place in Yemen and these men have been sentenced to death. Five pirates have been tried in the United States. The problem is that it is very difficult to judge pirates because there is no international anti-piracy law. For example, § 100 of the Estonian Penal Code provides for imprisonment for up to 20 years in the case of piracy, so we have such a provision of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U487	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U488	Good waitress! In answer to my question about women's participation in missions, the Minister of Defence said that women are not being prevented and that everything is entirely equal. In this respect, I have the question: why are we always talking about teams? For example, if there is a women's handball team in sport, it is said to be a women's team. In other languages there is 'komanda' in Russian, 'team' in English, I do not know what Flemish is like, but I believe that there is no such sexist distinction in this language when it comes to some kind of collective of people who perform a task. When will another term be developed in Estonia that applies to both men and women?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U489	We did not discuss this issue at the committee meeting, and I would not like to express my personal opinion. Then we could stay here for hours to discuss this subject. I am still representing the Commission, and there is no good answer to this question that you are expecting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U490	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U491	Good waitress! In addition to the material that we have been able to use during the operation of Atalanta, we have seen various documentary films about Somalia and also about the real problems of pirates. It turns out that in many cases these are not exceptionally bloodthirsty people, but just desperate people. After all, we have dealt with about the same problems with Afghanistan in several Commissions. People don't have jobs, people don't have a chance to live. Has there been any discussion at the meetings of the Commission, as well as in the case of international contacts, about how to help these coastal villagers, so that they have something else to do besides what they do, unfortunately?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U492	Good questioner! It has to be acknowledged that this is not the subject we did not sort out in the Commission from this point of view. But these documentary films have been made by several filmmaking groups all over the world, and I completely agree with their message. Pirates are a large proportion of desperate former fishermen and this is a serious problem where there is no very good solution, if taken on a macro level. There is no solution that, however, in cases where pirates have been successful, they have received their ransom. And this ransom has not gone to buy fishing vessels, but to promote piracy. They have very modern techniques. So, unfortunately, desperate fishermen have become pirates and this is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U493	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Aivar Riisalu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U494	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, It is important for Estonia to be a credible and active partner in the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy, as the European Union is the most important contributor to Estonia's security alongside NATO. At present, the most important European Union military operation has become the anti-piracy operation Atalanta, which in ancient Greek means a female hunter. Obviously, this is where Marianne Mikko was appointed as rapporteur for this bill, a small conspiracy by the Commission. The operation itself has been launched to ensure the safety of shipping in the Horn of Africa area, including the coast of Somalia. For Estonia too, Atalanta is the most important operation led by the European Union. At political level, we were among the first to raise the need for anti-piracy action in the European Union at large. Our good colleague Tarmo Kõuts must have contributed here in the previous Riigikogu. After all, he described how he wiped pirates with water cannons off the ship at the time. And you see, a successful water cannon attack later helped him to become the head of the Estonian Defence Forces. 'In addition to contributing to the implementation of CSDP, participating in the operation will provide Estonia with cooperation experience in the fight against piracy and practical experience in operational cooperation between the EU, NATO and third countries. The participation of Vessel Protection Detachment (VPD) also contributes to the strategic cooperation between Estonia and other European Union countries. The experience gained during the operation is used to develop training for Defence Forces in Estonia. ' This is another example of the text of the explanatory memorandum that is being presented on our tables. The text is so complicated that even a person with higher education finds it sometimes difficult to read, even less able to understand it, or, say, to make sense of it. What does it mean that the most important mission of the European Union is the fight against pirates? This is in the 21st century and, by the way, not light-years away from the European continent! It is incomprehensible how this is possible in this technological age, at all, when a person's position can be determined with satellite systems to the nearest half a metre. If we really want to, we'll be able to erase one person from the face of the earth once we find him within a foot of it. The military equipment and everything that is included in it have evolved so far, while the whole ocean is an area where virtually safe navigation is not possible. A good example is that for two and a half months, our world travelers, everyone's beloved singers and other wonderful and good people in Estonia sought the opportunity to load their sailboat to a cargo ship with a defence team to get across the Indian Ocean and safely arrive in the Mediterranean Sea. Unbelievable in the 21st century! Social problems, former fishermen, all of this is understandable and understandable on the one hand. On the other hand, however, I dare say that we have been too gentle. We shouldn't be so gentle! A rather interesting idea emerged from today's debate, which could be seriously analysed in the context of international legislation. It was the thought put forward by my colleague, Kalev Kallo, that why ship crews should not be armed. This does not mean that we should not go ahead with this mission. But ship crews could be armed. The weapons could be in a particular weapons room, the cabinets of which could be sealed by the captain and the customs at the port of departure. If the pirates knew that the ships were capable of defending themselves, they would certainly be able to spy out who had a defence crew on top, who didn't have a safety crew, their instincts would be reduced. As a rule, ships with defence teams are not attacked. And we keep paying and paying and paying. True, he is not, on the one hand, a good opportunity to really use this mission in the context of training. But I'd rather think the problem wouldn't solve if we didn't try to find other ways to fight piracy. One of the issues I tried to mark in my own affairs and what really worries the Centre Party is the issue of military attachés and diplomacy in our military cooperation. The Atalanta mission will end for us in the new year. We don't have a six-month mission any more, the mission is a three-month mission. As a result of supposedly insufficient communication, the French have given up our services. I am very sad about this, because it is important for us that our relations with NATO members and with the great powers of the European Union, such as France and Germany, are on the best ground. France, however, is currently a slightly stronger and stronger military state than Germany. At the same time, I have a good opportunity here to mark the fact that Norway is not a member of the European Union, but as a NATO member, it is very well understood what national defence means according to the same model as Estonia. Norway is one of the few countries in the world that use a similar model to that of Estonia. When we went there with the Commission, we asked why you did, and they made it very clear that they had a 120 km border with a certain country that would not allow them to think differently. With these countries, we should, in any case, be involved at the attaché level, because elsewhere in the North, it tends to get very soft. Finland draws the ends together, reduces the defence forces and sub-offices. I still think that Estonia is doing the right thing, and we need to communicate every day with those countries that think the same way with us and who can be military partners for us if we are in some kind of trouble. But I still call on all political forces to support the Atalanta mission as long as it is and will continue to exist for us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U495	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U496	I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U497	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 316 amendments on 12 December 2012 at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U498	We move to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union's international military headquarters." I would like to ask the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U499	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic applies for the mandate of the Riigikogu to allow the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the work of both NATO and the international military headquarters of the European Union. The conditions would be as follows: the use of up to five members of the Defence Forces during the following year shall be subject to the restriction that they are engaged in a new military operation for the purpose of maintaining or restoring peace and security, as provided for in Chapters VI and VII of the Charter of the United Nations, headed by NATO or the European Union, or to participation in the work of the International Military Headquarters. What is the purpose of this mandate? Indeed, various events can quickly, within a few days, escalate into an international crisis, creating the need for intervention by third parties, in particular NATO and the European Union. This mandate will ensure the possibility of participating in the resolution of crises from the decision of NATO or the European Union to launch a mission. It is in our interest that Estonia's military ally should be visible at the beginning of a possible operation. So it makes sense for us to be ready. An example is the case in 2012, when NATO started operations in Libya. Estonia's participation in this mission would have made Estonia significantly more visible politically. What would the tasks of the Estonian Defence Forces be? The aim is to contribute to the risk assessment of the situation with staff officers, which means that the tasks are linked to the support of operations. The possible participation of Estonia also means additional staff and mission expenses. The possible additional costs will be covered by the staff and economic costs provided for in the 2013 budget of the Ministry of Defence. The criteria on which Estonia should decide to participate in this new mission are determined by consensus between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And as foreseen by the relevant law on military cooperation, in the case of a new mission, the Minister of Defence, acting in coordination with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, would instruct the Defence Forces, on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu, to take part in an international military operation launched by NATO or the European Union. Such arrangements shall be communicated without delay to the President, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. In the coming years, the application for participation in such an operation will follow the same procedure as is currently the case when a mandate is asked to participate in a particular operation. I ask Parliament to discuss this draft and to support this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U500	Minister, thank you. There are some questions for you. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U501	Dear Minister, We have dealt with various missions here, though larger, though smaller. Could it be the subject of discussion that there are too many missions for a small country like Estonia? Can we narrow them off somewhere and focus on one or two of the most important things?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U502	In fact, we have, in general, such a policy that we consider it important to participate precisely in the most important missions of our strategic partners, as we do in the case of Atalanta and the Afghanistan mission. We do not divide our forces, but wish to contribute as a partner so that we can offer real military capabilities on these missions. But it's clear that the world's danger picture is changing. Various new missions may arise on the agenda for political decision-making in those organisations where we are partners. In doing so, we certainly consider it important to make our contribution in the early stages in order to demonstrate our willingness to ensure security as a partner. This is one of our principles, so that it is clear: not only do we want to consume security, but we are also prepared to secure it ourselves in accordance with our military capabilities. I guess different countries do different things. But if we look at the various missions where we have the opportunity to participate, it is certainly not our aim to divide forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U503	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U504	Minister, thank you very much. If the missions that we have dealt with so far relate to a particular place, there is now a definition that this must be a mission led by NATO or the European Union. I understand that right now we have no one on a foreign mission. If we make this decision, is it foreseen that there will be a place where our representatives can go now? Or do they wait until there's a need?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U505	I would like to compare it with the mandate that we spoke about on the top of the previous item on the agenda, and I am thinking about NATO's response forces. On this draft, too, we are asking for a mandate from Parliament to ensure that we have the readiness of certain forces. And if there is a particular need, given our political interest as a partner, we would do so. On the basis of this decision, we are not about to send anyone anywhere immediately. If that were the case, we would ask for a mandate to participate in a particular mission. The idea, the aim, is to show that we are a partner who, politically and also with his military capabilities, is able to contribute to common security. In this context, it is important that we impose significant restrictions on this. Firstly, it must indeed be the aim of maintaining and restoring peace and security under the Charter of the United Nations. Secondly, there are up to five members of the Defence Forces involved in the work of the International Military Headquarters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U506	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U507	Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum states that the deployment of military personnel to military operations headquarters entails certain costs and is considered. You do know the order of magnitude, how much could that amount be? Could it be a million euros or more? Please tell us your opinion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U508	These are up to five members of the armed forces in active service, whose current remuneration is provided for, and the mission fee will be increased. The cost of equipment and transport will also be added. If we compare Atalanta's mission, where we are talking about ten Defence Forces on a permanent basis and a size of EUR 607000, it will be considerably lower. But I do not want to speculate on the figures and mislead Parliament. However, even if this mission were hypothetically realised in such a way that the entire year would last, the amount would still be much lower. In doing so, we have foreseen that, if this need arises, it will be covered by the general staff costs and the general operating costs provided for in the Ministry's administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U509	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U510	Minister, thank you very much. If the Riigikogu now gives this fundamental mandate, will the Defence Forces man these places with specific staff officers or will the person who is seconded depend on the nature of the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U511	Which officers will be selected and assigned to the mission will undoubtedly depend on a specific mission. Understandably, partners have their own preferences that we need staff officers to perform our function. So I have no intention of choosing up to five officers and saying that you are the team that needs to be ready. If there is a particular need, our officers must be ready to go on a mission at short notice. Their choice will be made in the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U512	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U513	Good minister! We've been talking about quite a number of missions here. It is customary for soldiers involved in operations to change, either because they have been wounded or for other reasons. When you draw parallels, there are, in a sense, members of the government, ministers of the soldiers on the policy field. The Reform Party has decided to replace its wounded minister. Is there any such plan inside your party? Do you want to replace the wounded ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U514	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U515	No, IRL doesn't intend to make such changes. IRL ministers continue to ensure peace and security in Estonia in accordance with their respective responsibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U516	Mr. Secretary of Defense! I have a question for you. This draft concerns the work of an Estonian representative at the International Military Headquarters. Is there a certain rank that the representative of Estonia must have there in order to be heard as an equal partner at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U517	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U518	It is clear that if there is a specific new mission, the headquarters of which must be manned within a very short notice period, then, of course, there will be consultation on which functions the Estonian Defence Forces will be required to perform there. No upper or lower rank limits have been set, as posts still have to be filled. And, in fact, we also have such legal practice that, if the status of a certain post provides for some rank, a member of the Defence Forces may be granted a temporary rank on the mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U519	Mr. Secretary of Defense! After all, these missions are a job abroad. This would have been particularly tempting during the previous regime. How's it going these days? Is there competition for these places?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U520	Of course, military personnel are paid an additional fee for their participation in missions, and that is well-founded. In situations like this, there is an additional burden. As regards the readiness of the Defence Forces to participate in the various missions, it is certainly a good thing that the armed forces in active service have a mission experience. Nearly a thousand Estonian Defence Forces have experience in foreign missions. I think it is of great value to ensure military training of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U521	Good minister! I will complete and clarify my previous question. Will the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Mr Parts, be given the opportunity to continue his mission? Is his mission extended?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U522	Minister of Economy Parts will continue in his post. I do not know whether I am violating Parliament's Rules of Procedure by answering questions that are not directly affected by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or by a mission led by the European Union. He shall continue to participate in the work of the Government Headquarters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U523	Thank you for that answer. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U524	Mr. Secretary of Defense! You mentioned that, if necessary, Estonia could send a representative to the mission, who would be given a temporary rank. How often does it occur that we are sending a military officer on a foreign mission who has been given a temporary higher rank? Is there a military force on any of the missions now with a temporary higher rank?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U525	I don't want to get lost in the details here, but there is a separate legal procedure for this, and these rank are given by the President of the Republic. Whether there is anyone of this rank in the service now, we can present a written account of this to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U526	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U527	Good minister! I do not know whether or not I am wrong in this terminology, but the title of this Riigikogu decision mentions the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. While we are looking at the draft decision of the Riigikogu 315, NATO has been mentioned there. Is it the same organisation and, if so, why is there a different name in the title? The question arises as to who will deliver these texts, whether or not a member of the Defence Forces or, if so, in what rank.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U528	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U529	Defence Forces are professional in Estonia; they are able to perform all the different tasks required by national defence requirements. As regards whether this is the same concept as the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and NATO, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U530	Dear Minister, Is there any training involved in this particular mission, or are there any kind of operations to which the armed forces of any kind are sent?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U531	If there is a situation where our Defence Forces are to be sent on a new mission at short notice to participate in the work of military headquarters, of course they must be competent to carry out the tasks they are expected to perform, both in terms of general preparation and as a specialist in a particular military field. Otherwise, they will not be able to contribute to the success of the mission. Since this is a short notice, the organisation of special training I consider improbable is not real. But I want to assure you that, thanks to intensive international defence cooperation, many military officers, specialists, have the necessary preparation, and I do not think that, if we have political need, we will have any difficulty in finding five defence forces who have such training to ensure their safety and professionalism on the mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U532	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U533	Mr. Secretary of Defense! However, I am not satisfied with your answer to the question of why the same organisation is referred to by different names in two different draft decisions. I mean, there are people who are even more ignorant of me, and they might get it all wrong. If the drafts already contain such inconsistencies in terminology, there may be other inaccuracies in the text of the decisions. Don't you think there should be some kind of linguistic proofreading and maybe there should be no other mistakes there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U534	In the Committee on National Defence, these texts were examined very thoroughly and constructively before the first reading. However, I think that this remark is appropriate, and it can be considered calmly before the second reading. That's the right attention, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U535	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U536	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I am before you today with the latest draft on the use of the Defence Forces. This draft was also discussed by the National Defence Committee before presenting it to first reading. November 12, with the participation of the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, and the Head of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence, Riho Rõngelepa, as well as at the meeting of the Commission on 15 November. It was also decided, with the consent of the author, to send the draft to the first reading as amended. Learn more about the draft decision. Pursuant to § 8 (12) of the International Military Cooperation Act, the Riigikogu, by decision, determines each year the maximum number of members of the Defence Forces who may participate in the work of the international military headquarters in the area of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, which is a new operation led by NATO or the European Union. The Riigikogu gives such a mandate only to participate in new operations; this does not apply to ongoing operations. The draft decision of the Riigikogu determining the limit shall be submitted to the Riigikogu by the Government of the Republic and the limit for the members of the Defence Forces shall be determined on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu for each calendar year. According to the draft under discussion, the 2013 limit is up to 5 members of the Defence Forces. The National Defence Committee considers that contributing to the new military operations of NATO and the European Union is important to Estonia and is directly due to Estonia's membership of NATO and the European Union. In addition, Estonia participates in the decision to start new operations managed by these organisations. In view of the above, the National Defence Committee decided, by consensus at its meeting on 12 and 15 November, to propose to the Management Board of the Riigikogu that this draft decision be included on the agenda of the 5 December session of the Riigikogu for the first reading. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft decision and ask the President of the Riigikogu to set the deadline for submitting amendments. 12 December at 5 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U537	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U538	Honourable waitress! As you know very well, and many members of the Riigikogu have visited it on the spot, the preparation of our military personnel for the operation will take place in full knowledge of where they are going. If you go to a warm country, the preparation is somewhat different, also based on climatic characteristics. Now we are talking about the representatives of Estonia who are going to some headquarters without knowing exactly where it might be. How is the preparation of these people designed in these respects?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U539	In reality, the preparation cycle has been quite long. We talk a great deal about the Estonian Defence Forces Company in Afghanistan, but few of those officers who participate in the work of the headquarters in Afghanistan. For years, we have had a rotation of officers both at the higher-level headquarters in Kabul and at the international headquarters in Helmand. These Estonian officers have real experience of such operations. And from personal practice, those officers who do not have a direct "field function" or an outdoor function that does not have direct contact with the local cultural environment do not need so much specific preparation. It is enough to have a good life experience and a firm mind to cope in different parts of the world when necessary in such operations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U540	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U541	Good Chairman of the National Defence Commission! I am sorry that I am not concerned with this draft, but I have a peculiar question: has the National Defence Committee ever discussed the topic 'Sports financed by national defence and defence', which are practiced in very many countries around the world? Has this been on your agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U542	Yes, it is, and it will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U543	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Mati Raidma. I'm opening negotiations. Please, as representative of the Central Party Group of Aivar Riisalu. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U544	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Defence! You see, it is very important for us to process this bill, because with this bill we are going practically to a new dimension in showing our capabilities to the rest of the world. For the first time, I'm breaking my tradition today, according to which I've read a piece of the text of a bill or explanatory memorandum from this remote control, and then I've tried to explain the point of the matter to the human language. The need for such a mandate actually arose this year, and the reason for it was when the European Union decided to participate in the Libyan operation. In the world today, there is a tendency to experience completely unexpected situations where operationality may be so necessary that the most important resource, or human life, can be prevented if you can put a lid on the pot at the right time. Estonia, having committed itself to contributing, if necessary, to up to five people in different general staff procedures, actually does not risk anything, but at the same time we show that we have the will to be equal among us. Now, in today's debate too, the question arose on the side of the opposition as to whether we did not suddenly have too many missions. I would like to reassure the opposition and put some pressure on the initiative on this subject, saying: we clearly do not have too many missions. We have missions just as much as we can carry. Let's take these terms of reference to send up to three members, and the current one, which applies to a slightly larger number of people, is a six. But let us consider the substance. We have six missions, one of which is important to the European Union, one is very important to NATO and takes place under the auspices of the UN. We're talking Afghanistan. Actually, it's nothing. I think that the much bigger problem is that it is very important to participate in missions for the development of the Defence Forces. It could be said that about 10% of our frame defence forces should be involved in missions, NATO has developed such a theory. I ask: if we come out of Afghanistan in 2014, where will our next war be? On the one hand, my opponents may tell me I'm a cynic. On the other hand, we know, and we have also discussed very much today, why these missions are important to us for one reason or another. One aspect is cooperation and the social aspect is also important, as is the training aspect. Let us imagine that the next tough war, where this very headquarters is relatively likely to be put into operation, is in Mali, North Africa. A strange country, a very large country, I may be wrong, but let's just say that it is still comparable to the great powers of Europe, because there is a pretty significant northern Mal desert area where Al-Qaeda has firmly confirmed its heels. There are some battalions in the state's armed forces, but there are very militant Tuaregi tribes in Mali, who are in many different directions. The strengthening of the heels of Islamic extremists, or Al-Qaeda, in this region, is particularly worrying to France, as it is Algeria's neighbourhood and there are strong historical ties between Algeria and France. We are honest, stability in North Africa, directly from Europe is important. Let us now think that this crisis is already serious, but it is not out of control yet, but the existence of the crisis has been recognised by Europe and, above all, under the leadership of France, some measures are already being taken there. It would be very sad if we now decided, at the same time, that Estonia is not the same as other European countries. We pretend that we do not care, that it is so far away from us and that we have no business there, that there have never been Estonians or no Estonians. That wouldn't be fair! That is why I think we will build on this same experience in Libya. There, however, air strikes were relatively quickly implemented and a rather bloody civil war was directed to the right tracks. And it went quite well, because Libya is now more or less stable and with special irregularities this country is not on the front pages of the newspapers. Syria is much more complicated. There's no way to get involved like that, and there's no way to solve the problem. However, on the basis of the example of Libya, I can suggest that similar action in Mali could be the operation where the mission we are currently dealing with will be implemented. I think our militia are good men. They have competence, and even if we have to react quickly, we will find officers and perhaps sub-officers who can be deployed among our defence forces. Believe me, on missions like this, they're gonna get a lot better. The experience gained in the exchange operation is one of the most significant possibilities and values of self-improvement for the Defence Forces. I call on all political parties to support, by consensus, such a proactive draft. This is a good thing for Estonia and a good thing for God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U545	Thank you very much for the waitress. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to finish the first reading. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 317 amendments on 12 December 2012 at 17:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U546	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Kadri Simson! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U547	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law, the law amending the Land Tax Act, the Land Tax Act, and the Law amending the Income Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax, contains a number of violations. First of all, when the Government Union adopted a law amending the Land Tax Act exempting homeowners a year and a half ago, a promise was made that the government would thereby compensate for the revenue base taken from the municipalities in the state budget. In fact, if all the money lost due to the cancellation of the land tax were to be compensated for by the municipalities, this law would not raise the income tax to 11.57%, but to 11,61%. And then there would be over Estonian municipalities, who would still lose more if they recovered the share of income tax, but in general, 14678 euros would not be stolen from the municipalities, which is done in this case if the share of personal income tax was increased to only 11.57%. True, it can be said that there are 14678 euros in old money for local governments, more than 229000 kroons of change, and, as the Prime Minister says, there is no need to worry about cents. At the same time, if we look at how the coalition ambassadors of the Riigikogu have given local governments 3000 euros of so-called 'roof money', it cannot be said that 14678 euros would be an unnecessary sum for local governments. In fact, the fact is that this law does not fully cover the land tax money taken from the municipalities. The breach in this bill is also that we are talking about the law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax. When you read this title, of course, it is the first thought to come up with such a populist title if you want to change only one section on land tax. But the second point is that those who came up with this populist title made a clear promise that homeowners would be released from land tax. Yet this law does not. Most of the residents of apartment buildings, at least in the heart of the city, have had to discover that they have some part of the land tax. If you live in an apartment building where there is an office or shop or other commercial premises on the first floor or on another floor, the required land tax is also distributed among people living in apartments. That was the law a year and a half ago, and it remains in the law that not all homeowners are exempt from land tax. Above all, it is the people living in the apartment who must suffer this injustice. The crack is, of course, that the Ministry sent a law amending the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act to the Riigikogu to be amended, but halfway through the procedure, it was discovered that one and a half years ago a populistic law was passed that exempting homeowners from land tax law. In the meantime, the officials of the Ministry of Finance and the minister had lost their minds, but in the end, it was discovered that it was correct to change such a legal sucker. In fact, it is clear that a year and a half ago, their populist point was caught by adopting a law with a resounding name, but it is now obvious that such a law is not necessary. It is sufficient to amend one section of the Land Tax Act to correct it so that homeowners win and local governments do not lose because of earning this election promise point. Fourthly, it is also a mistake that the final part of this bill also affects foreign pensioners, which are not at all affected by land tax. In fact, it turned out that the Estonian state lost a good six months ago in court when one pensioner did not want to pay personal income tax on his pension. Six months were considered what to do about this sentence, now at once woke up and last week homeowners were added to the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, Land Tax Act and Income Tax Act, which states that natural persons resident in the country who received less than 75% of their taxable income in Estonia during the tax period may make deductions from income taxable in Estonia in proportion to its proportion of their taxable income during the tax period. Fifthly, the problem is that when it was discovered six months later that one pensioner had been lost in court, and a section was written in this draft, which now concerns all pensioners who receive their income from two countries, then the question of how many pensioners are involved and the cost of the change to the Estonian state budget is not answered. And since we do not know what the cost is, the amendment to the law has been made without any understanding of where the cover will be taken next year to cover this section. So if we see politicians from the Reform Party waving their hands and calling out that some changes cannot be discussed at all, because there is no cover, then this bill has been happily included in the paragraph, where it is not known how many people are affected and where it comes from the state budget to fulfil this obligation. I now lost count of cracks, because there are many of them, but I would like to end by referring to one great injustice. This is precisely the fact that for a year and a half it was decided how to restore the share of income tax to the municipalities, and now it will be restored to a lesser extent than the costs to be borne by the municipalities. The next year will be 11.57%, the next 11.60, but in order to compensate for the land tax exemption of the land under home, this percentage should be reduced to 11.61. But the state at the same time thought that it would improve its fiscal position at the expense of the municipalities, and wrote in this law an additional section saying that the land of state-owned public buildings is no longer subject to land tax, which is not justified in any way, because the state could pay land tax on the land it owns. Such a tax gift is nothing more than an accounting for the fact that most of the state's offices are located in Tallinn, almost all ministries and other administrations. Once again, we have reached the point that the Riigikogu Hall is made aware that the IRL and Reform Party have very few support in comparison with opposition support, but they have 56 votes in the Riigikogu Hall, legislatively away to Tallinn at any opportunity. That's stupid! In fact, such battles should be fought at the Tallinn Council. But that's exactly how it's written in the law. It is in no way fair to the municipalities, it is gradually imposing obligations on the municipalities and, at the same time, money is being stolen from them in every area where it is possible. I therefore think it is right to vote against this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U548	Thank you very much. There are no further requests for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. We are beginning to prepare for the final vote on this bill and it is necessary to call on the people to vote. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U549	Ten minutes of intermission before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U550	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U551	Honourable Riigikogu, I will final vote on the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act 299. Please take a stand and vote. 50 votes in favour and 18 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U552	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto. Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U553	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President! I have to admit, in this year's budget, I'm constantly haunted by the feeling that we've been having crazy days for the third week.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U554	Excuse me for a second! Ladies and gentlemen, quiet in the Chamber, please. Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U555	Maybe if you didn't hear me, I said I had this feeling we'd been on crazy days for a long time. And not just because my colleagues and I are happily spending all day, and in the late hours of the night, the hallway where we are, it feels like a nice nostalgic jumper when you hear a neighbor pounding a alarm clock or brushing his teeth behind the wall. This isn't about this at all, it's about nuances that go to the point and maybe someday even seem really cute. These days are crazy because we're trying to get people to shop and participate in a big discount campaign, just like those yellow guys walking around town. In fact, I have a feeling that we are always underestimating the election promises of the government coalition here. In fact, we do it by putting the original in the consumer's head, which may actually have been produced somewhere in the Chinese basement. Unfortunately, with this draft, I cannot get rid of this feeling, because it was clearly promised that we would receive free higher education. In fact, we receive so-called 'need-based' education support, which also has certain shortcomings, which I think we discussed here the day before yesterday. It hasn't gotten any better in the meantime, it just hasn't been given a chance. As Professor Aadu Must, who, unfortunately, is not here at the moment, said on this topic: 'To me, the Estonian Parliament is increasingly reminiscing of the branch office of a large global company or, rather, its accounting, where it is calculated well, the work is done well, the tables are done well, only that everything basic has already been decided somewhere else. So is our education policy. ' I remembered this quote well, and I now took it out of the verbatim. To be honest, it is not just education policy. As Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I would say exactly the same about social matters, but this is not the subject of today's draft. Aadu Black's harsh assessment must, unfortunately, be accepted. In committees, we can discuss matters in any constructive way, but at some point we will come to the budget line where a certain amount is written, and we will then push our good promise within that amount. As a result, we have now received education support, but it is difficult to call it even needs-based, because, let us be honest, if there are still needs to be covered with EUR 135 or EUR 220, then there is obviously little support of EUR 75. Well, if it's a dorm, it's a month's bill, I'm not talking about a rental dwelling. And the people who have something to do with our higher education system know very well that the dormitory is not so easily available. At the same time, there are also very positive aspects to the draft. The first is that such a bill exists. The second is the fact that a compromise was finally reached within the Commission that this support would not go into income. At this point, however, I must finish this list, because I do not see any other good points, but bad ones. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U556	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U557	There is no need for Kassandra to predict that the number of need-based beneficiaries will decrease significantly by the end of the first year. We know very well that 100% of credit is simply impossible to meet even cumulatively when a young person has to work. Our state officials, as well as our employers, are constantly complaining that we have a large shortage of employees, but we have not taken any steps to create a job market, even in those cities where there are universities, with the opportunity to work with half, a third or less of the burden that students can use. In doing so, it would be good if they could not work during the day when they need to be in university and study to get 100% full. Secondly, this differentiation of €75, €135 and €225. Speaking to the students, I realized it was evil. Actually, the system could be more accurate, there could be more steps, but for that, I understand, there's no time, because we're doing it all in a hurry. I don't know why. This system should be better refined. And another very big mistake that came out for me two or three days ago: a scholarship that can be successfully learned is considered an income. This kills any motivation to learn well, because in this case the student will be deprived of need-based support. And the scholarship is less than the need-based support. This error must be corrected as a matter of urgency. So I repeat once again: the bill is like good, but we know what things are like paved and built with good intentions. I understand that the coalition ambassadors absolutely support this bill. It is evidently supported by someone in the opposition. But as the mother of three students, I am saying that this bill will not solve the problem, and I very much hope that, even if the bill goes through here today, we will find time to come back to it and solve the problems so that free higher education does not just remain a pre-election slogan. Unfortunately, with our current political culture, the subject of free higher education will only be topicalized in three years' time before the elections, which is very sad. But I hope we can fix the system sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U558	Thank you. Please, as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U559	Mr President, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U560	Eight minutes in total, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U561	Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party, based on its world view, supports a higher education system where high-quality state-funded higher education is available to all capable young people, regardless of their family's economic situation. We have repeatedly pointed out that the reform carried out by the government under the slogan of free higher education, consisting of the university law that has already been adopted and the draft need-based education support that is now to be voted on, does not ensure that this principle is respected. The basic change in the organisation of the reform must be the principle that only 100% of studies can be completed free of charge. Basically, there can be no objection to this, the student's main job must be learning, but this can only be required if we have an adequate system of support for students. We do not have such a system so far, and more than half of the students have to work to live. The proposed system of education grants is certainly a step in the right direction in this respect, but unfortunately, in its current form, it does not guarantee students from a poor family the opportunity to study free of charge. According to a draft drawn up by the government, only those whose family's income is below the relative poverty threshold would receive EUR 135 education support. Firstly, families whose income is slightly above that limit, such as EUR 300 per family member, are certainly unable to provide the necessary support to their students, but these students do not receive any support from the state. Secondly, even those 37% of students whose household income is below the limit of relative poverty and who receive this needs-based education allowance cannot, of course, survive with EUR 135 education allowance. The Ministry also says in the explanatory memorandum that these students are unable to support their parents and, as we know, find it difficult to find student loan guarantors. Thus, most of them have to go to work to live, which makes it much more difficult to learn at a maximum. They either fail to comply with this requirement and have to pay for their studies or make every effort at any cost to get the lowest scores together. Of course, this affects the quality of knowledge. The bill before us will strike a second blow at these students. If some credits are lost due to work, students will not only have to pay tuition fees but will also be deprived of tuition grants, because unlike the original concept, the draft also imposes a 100% tuition requirement for obtaining study grants. Social Democrats and students in the form of both the ECL and the University of Tartu, the Technical University and the student associations of the County University have requested that the study load requirement be reduced to 85% when granting study grants. The government has opposed this because it wants to save money, which once again shows that a large part of the details of the higher education reform have been put there on the basis of financial rather than academic and social considerations. In order to save a few hundred thousand euros, the quality of our young people's education and thus, in a broader sense, the future of Estonia as a whole will be put at risk. This is unacceptable to the Socialists. This is probably also unacceptable for the coalition ambassadors of the Committee on Culture, who have tried to find other justification to protect the 100% study load requirement. Unfortunately, this recital, which we can also read in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading drawn up by the Commission and which was presented here at second reading by Mr onion, is quite embarrassing. Priit Sibul argued that if the 100% study load requirement for the grant of education was reduced, it could make students more comfortable and make them exploit the system. The idea, then, is that if only 85% of the tuition requirement is to be met to obtain EUR 135, the student will not be motivated to study at all with the maximum burden, despite the fact that the burden requirement will remain 100% for the tuition fee to be paid. This argument is as embarrassing as Rein Aidma's argument in processing another draft: that an increase in unemployment benefit from EUR 100 to EUR 135 will lead the unemployed to sit happily on the couch and not want to go to work. Listening to such opinions, it seems that many figures need to undergo a certain adaptation programme in order to really understand the socio-economic situation in Estonia. Of course, in the Committee on Culture, the draft was much better on several points, and for that the Commission must certainly be commended. Several proposals from the Social Democrats also considered the exclusion from the calculation of income support, as well as the age limit for reading as a member of the household. However, with the current wording of the draft, even the EUR 135 education allowance initially proposed by the government can no longer be mentioned. Indeed, by introducing a reasonable principle of differentiation according to income, this has been done in such a way that half of the eligible students no longer receive EUR 135, but only EUR 75. This creates an extremely unfair situation where the total income of the poorest student can be up to 220 euros, while the best-performing student gets up to 355 euros, which is more than one and a half times more. This has been brought to the attention of the ECL and, on the basis of this remark, the Social Democrats have proposed that the second reading of the draft be interrupted and this foolishness be corrected in the draft. Unfortunately, this proposal was not even supported by the Centre Party. The argument was that the proposal did not come at the right time, and now it is urgent. Friends! The Social Democrats called for the draft study grants to be discussed in the course of the university law a year ago, but this draft was only put into Parliament's proceedings at the end of May. However, even now, Parliament certainly had at least a week to work further on this draft. The only thing that didn't exist is will. With a hundred percent study load, the 75-euro education allowance for half of students living below the poverty line is, of course, simply spitting in the face. Even now, students receive education allowance and travel allowance for 84 euros. If, with the current support, half of the students have to work to live, how can they now devote 100% of their studies and meet the study load requirement with even less support? On the basis of these two main aspects, as well as several technical details that we have pointed out in our first and second reading speeches, the Social Democrats see that higher education reform in both its parts makes access to higher education for students from poor families more difficult. We are afraid that the quality of education will fall because the student needs formal credits in fear of financial sanctions. This draft does not provide sufficient state support for underprivileged students to cope successfully with the new 100% study load requirement in the system. We therefore do not support this draft, calling for a real implementation of free higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U562	Thank you very much. I ask for a speech chair as representative of the Group of the Kaia Iva Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U563	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland and Res Publica Union are undoubtedly pleased that this draft law has reached a third reading, or final vote. When we started the reform of higher education last year and started preparing a draft law that would allow Estonian higher education institutions to study and obtain higher education without tuition fees, there were many doubters. There were doubts as to whether the law on permissible student benefits would come, whether it would be flexible enough and provide the additional support that we have promised. In May, there were still doubters in adopting this previous law. I am now pleased to see that the need-based draft study grants have reached the third reading. We must certainly say a great deal of thanks to the Committee on Culture and its chairman, who has managed this procedure skilfully and cooperatively. We must certainly say a great deal of thanks to those representative organisations and other parties who have expressed their views and defended their positions. It can also be seen that many of the proposals were taken into account not just one hundred percent, but to a large extent. The learning benefit system has become much more flexible, and this is certainly important! The limit from which students are included in the family was also reduced. The third important thing: just as with family benefits and needs-based child benefits, we also included the need-based education allowance out of income that is included in the calculation of income tax. In my opinion, thanks to a number of such changes, this draft has reached a stage where it is time to legitimise it. Once again, thank you to everyone! But I would like to stress that studying in higher education does not mean that the law will certainly guarantee higher education. Both the taxpayer whose money is provided for this education and the grants are paid and the students need to work hard to obtain the necessary education. Thank you and I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U564	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Urmas Klaas Reform Party Group. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U565	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good guests. The Committee on Culture started to prepare the need-based draft of study grants in depth at the beginning of September. Indeed, the proposals of a large number of relevant representative organisations have been heard and taken into account. It is quite clear that we are making laws in this Parliament for the entire Estonian society and that compromises must inevitably be sought and concluded so that every law does indeed serve the interests of the whole society and is not unduly jealous of the interests of one or another interested party involved. I have to say that this draft has been done in good cooperation and that a great many proposals have been taken into account. Will this bill be one that does not need to be reviewed after a while when it becomes a law? I think that since we are taking a decisive step with this draft and are launching a new system of need-based education support in the framework of the reform of higher education, it is necessary to monitor the work of this system very carefully, and the Committee on Culture will also do so, and certainly, if necessary, to improve the system in the future. I do not agree at all that we are trying to portray students as helpless creatures who only have to live up to what Estonian taxpayers are able to offer them. There will certainly be parental support for students, access to student loans, access to work if necessary, and, of course, need-based learning support. I know all the problems with one or the other financing option, the Committee on Culture has also dealt with them. There have been speeches in this hall about problems associated with applying for student loans. Between two readings, we have met officials from both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance, and we have an overview of how the government plans to change the student loan system. We believe that these proposals are in the right direction, and we will certainly continue to work with the Commission so that the student credit system becomes better and more responsive to the interests of the students. Yes, with this draft, we have substantially changed the amount of education allowance proposed by the government and differentiated it into three categories. Students have suggested that differentiation should be even more precise and larger and that the needs of students should be better taken into account. I recall two things. Firstly, the need-based education allowance does not go into the income support calculation. This is an important change. We will see with the Committee on Culture that this is a higher education policy measure and it would be a pity if education support were to worsen the situation of families receiving subsistence support. Secondly, and I am not very happy about that, because it makes the system more rigid, we are counting the tuition allowance on the basis of a valid tax return. However, if we put it into practice according to the same rules, if income subsidies were to be taken into account, this would increase much bureaucratic barriers and force students to go to the municipality very often and submit the necessary documents. To avoid all of this, we agreed with the government's proposal. Tuition allowance is calculated on the basis of a valid tax return and, since these data are not really the most recent, I think that more precise, more detailed differentiation does not make this system much more flexible. We brought down the age limit, which is the criterion for calculating the education allowance. That is how we took into account the student's second proposal. It won't be 26 years anymore. We found it perfectly appropriate for 24 years of age, and this proposal was generally accepted. Of course, I support the adoption of this draft at third reading on behalf of the Reform Party Group. I am pleased that the Centre Party Group has also supported it so far. And it would also be very foolish to deprive students of need-based study grants due to stretching and other proposals sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U566	Thank you very much. The representatives of all the political groups have spoken. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us now proceed to the final vote on this draft. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U567	Thank you! Ten minutes of intermission before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U568	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U569	Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the draft law 236 amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating thereto. Please take a stand and vote. 64 delegates voted in favour, 5 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U570	We come to the next item, which is the third reading of Bill 310 of Amendment to the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Valeri Korb! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U571	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Centre Party cannot support the adoption of the Bill 310 amending the Environmental Charges Act. There are quite a few reasons for this, but the main thing is that once again, the central authority takes the opportunity of local authorities to regulate the processes that take place on their territory. Today, it can be said that the delegation of the Government Commission and the Municipalities Cooperation Council signed the negotiating protocol on 24 April and that an agreement had been reached. The proposals made by the Ministry of Finance are that the plans were stricter on local authorities, if not to say very strict. However, it was calculated that a new compensation mechanism would be put in place if local authorities' revenues were to decrease. It can be said that documents concerning the local government, signed at the Ministry of Finance level, regulate the life of all local governments. For me, as a person in Ida-Virumaa, it is very important what is happening in the seven municipalities where oil shale is mined. At the level of the Republic, we are proud to talk about our oil shale energy, the oil shale chemical industry. As a person born in Ida-Virumaa and living there for many years, I know what leads to the activity of careers and mines. Nature suffers, the person who lives there suffers. Let's be honest: how many of us would like to live in a place where big career machines sometimes work a hundred metres away by the house, leaving a landscape all around that takes so many years to fix it? Other problems related to mines and careers, protection of nature, water supply, etc. can also be discussed. It would be unfair to say that nothing is happening in the restoration process. Sometimes we see it when we get to a place where careers and mines used to work. But I am convinced that, under local government management, these processes will go better. However, in these years, unfortunately, the central authority is reducing the amount of local government funds, all of which will fall downwards in the coming years. In the April Protocol, I read that one point provides for the reduction of the mining right fee to be paid to the municipal budget for deposits of national importance and the mining and mining career fee to be reduced to 25% of the 2011 level. A few years ago, this percentage was higher for local authorities and it is a pity that these amounts will decrease. Another problem concerning this bill. For many years, there has been talk, and there have also been several initiatives to bring together the development strategy and development plan of Ida-Viru County, which can be found on the Internet in a number of ways. However, unfortunately, the draft we are discussing today did not discuss it thoroughly, although the law really affects one third of the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa. I think that bringing together this development plan and the development strategy will be on the agenda every time before the elections and, unfortunately, after the elections, they will disappear somewhere like water in the sand. It is very unfortunate that I am talking about this work on the work done at the level of the government committee and the local government associations, the working group of our Ida-Virumaa ambassadors did not participate. At a rapid pace, these meetings went on and they ended with a bill that we believe will not add anything to the activities of local authorities in the coming years. Once again, the Centre Party Group cannot support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U572	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. So I'm closing the negotiations. We are preparing the final vote on this draft. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U573	I ask for ten minutes of intermission before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U574	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U575	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Bill 310 of Amendment to the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 13 against and no abstentions. The draft has therefore been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U576	We will move to the next item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Reform Party Group and the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, as initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. I would like to ask for a presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U577	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the Estonian Reform Party Group and the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, initiated by the Isamaa and Res Publica Group on 16 October, was completed in this Chamber on 13 November. On the proposal of the Social Committee, the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for amendments on 20 November at 18:00. Amendments to the draft were tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group. After completion of the first reading of the draft, the Committee on Social Affairs met at three meetings to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading: 22 November and 3 and 4 December. At the meeting on 3 December, when there was a debate on the substance of the amendments tabled, Katre Pall and Reet Kodu, as well as Kaili Didrichson, took part as representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In order to prepare for the first reading of the draft, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments submitted its comments, which have also been partially taken into account, and the Association of Estonian Cities did so by sending their proposals in writing by 19 November. The content of the amendments was, in short, as follows: The representative of the Social Democratic Party Group stated, as a justification for the amendments, that the amendment proposed in the draft was essentially of a social welfare nature, namely an annex to income support; therefore, amendments are necessary only in the Social Welfare Act. In the opinion of the Socialist Group, this is an additional child's subsistence allowance. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party tabled a number of amendments, the content of which was broadly in three sections. One part was related to excluding the need-based child benefit from this draft at all. The second part was related to support for triple births or a higher number of multiple births; it was proposed to raise it to EUR 10000. The third issue was the addition of § 222 (2) of the Social Welfare Act to the point whereby part of the child benefit paid under the State Family Benefits Act is excluded from income when applying for income support for each child receiving the child benefit. The Estonian Centre Party Group also proposed to increase the amount of child benefit for all children three times. The Commission itself made a number of proposals that took into account the appeal of the Cities Union and the Association of Municipalities, as well as the conclusions of the discussions in the Commission. In addition to specifying the practice already in place in the law, a major change is that if we adopt this law, it is possible to read the children of a family living in a honeycomb model. For example, if one parent has one child and the other parent has two children from the previous life before it and has decided to live and get married together, according to the current law, they would have either two children or one child in the family, but in the event of these changes, if they were to get married, they would have three children in the family. Thus, it allows the majority of children to receive third and more child support. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose to the Bureau that the draft be sent to plenary on 6 December and that the second reading be closed. The Social Affairs Committee also decided to propose that, if the second reading of the draft was completed, the third reading be carried out on 12 December and adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U578	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U579	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! The number of children living in relative poverty will decrease by 2 percentage points as of 2015 when the changes take effect. Unfortunately, children and families who are already in a difficult situation have to expect significantly higher benefits for another two years. The new type of family benefits in the form of needs-based child benefit does not fulfil its objective at such a low level of support, and the EUR 9.59 allowance cannot help most families living in poverty. However, the entry into force of the draft is accompanied by an increase in the workload of the local social workers and the responsibility for administering support. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal does not make it clear how much the government is prepared to cover the cost of administrating needs-based child support to local authorities. Can it not be that the creation of needs-based child support leads to more responsibilities than it helps these poor families?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U580	The State Budget Act of the following year also provides for the payment of sums to be paid to the municipalities to cover the administrative costs of the measures provided for in that law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U581	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U582	Good waitress! The Centre Party Group has repeatedly pointed out to the government that child support has been unchanged for ten years. We have all felt on our own what the price increase of recent years has done, what its impact has been. I therefore dare say that this EUR 19.8 child benefit is not enough to support children's upbringing. Based on what arguments did the Social Committee not support the Central Party Group's proposal to increase child support for all children in Estonia? It is still support that is family policy, not poverty policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U583	I think that the price increases have affected people differently from their incomes. Your experience is probably different from that of so many other people, perhaps you have not sensed them at all. Indeed, this draft adds child benefit and other family benefits over several years. The universal child benefit also increases from the third child of the family. This is one of the very great effects of this draft and one very serious decision over a long period of years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U584	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U585	Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! It is true that a number of problems between the first and second readings, such as the problem of the honeycomb family you referred to, did indeed find a solution. But I have a request that you suddenly specify precisely the people who are in the Chamber, but who are not members of the Social Affairs Committee, on the basis of which needs-based family support is paid. What is the basis for this? For example, the grant is based on the income tax return of the previous year, income and expenses of the previous month in the case of income support. What is the basis and is the cost of family expenses calculated from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U586	Good questioner! Both in the draft explanatory memorandum and in the explanatory memorandum to the amendments, this material has been distributed to you in very detail how it is calculated. The Committee on Social Affairs also specified in its amendments the basis for taking into account family incomes when determining needs-based family benefits. And it is precisely on the basis of the practical examples given by the questioner himself that we have already specified the existing laws, so that it is clear what is going to be taken into account in particular and what is not going to be taken into account in relation to the net income of the family. This list has been given to you. One separate topic was the allowance, which was equally affected by Helmen Hunt's draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U587	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U588	Good waitress! You summarised briefly and accurately the content of our amendment. We had a sincere desire to contribute so that this would become a decent thing in theory. You forgot to add why the Commission did not take our amendments into account, but I am not going to ask you that. I have a completely different question. If you continue with the same scheme, why are the rest of the benefits paid under the Social Welfare Act not family benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U589	Good questioner! I didn't really understand what you looked like. It's a trick question. But indeed, the Committee on Social Affairs itself made a change here: we are now counting this support into family benefits. In fact, Eiki criticised this bill from the very beginning, as it had been drafted as a draft of child support. I think that this criticism was justified, and the Committee on Social Affairs also took this into account. And now, if you take into account the amendments, that is, in particular, family allowance. It is child-related support, but it is provided by the family according to the size of their income and depending on whether they are below the poverty line or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U590	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U591	Dear waitress, I am amazed that the proposal of the Centre Party Group to support the family in the event of the birth of triplets is not supported by a single EUR 10000. Given the demographic situation in Estonia, the birth of triplets is even more fortunate for the country than for this family. The Social Affairs Committee certainly had these figures in place, many times a year in Estonia triplets are born. Every year, of course, in different ways, but on average this number is quite low. And such one-time support for the birth of triplets, in my opinion, should not make the Estonian state poor. Why was such support not sought?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U592	Good questioner! I would remind you that the grant for triplets and a higher number of multiple births will increase to EUR 3000 next year. Compared to what is now, it is a triple increase. But this number, how many triplets are born, really isn't very big, it's less than ten.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U593	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U594	Honourable waitress! I would like to clarify, please repeat once again: what is the limit of family income so that it will receive needs-based family support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U595	There is a method and formula for calculating the poverty threshold. This depends on the model of a specific family: several people, including several adults and several children. According to this, we're counting on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U596	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U597	Good waitress! At the first reading of the draft act, the initiator's rapporteur in this Chamber promised that local governments would be compensated for the cost of administering family support on a need-based basis. He also said that the exact amount to be compensated would become apparent for the second reading. Now I ask: what amount does the Government of the Republic provide for support for administration costs for local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U598	This amount actually becomes apparent in the course of the work and depends on how many applications are submitted. But this money is planned and will certainly be paid out in cooperation with the municipalities. The Social Affairs Committee also confirmed this to the local authorities at the meeting of the Commission. After all, the preparation period is almost six months to agree on all of this. We met the municipalities in the sense that we took into account their proposal to change the date for applying for child benefits based on needs. We made this period longer so that it would not coincide with the day on which the income support was paid. The aim is not to increase their workload. In this sense, our cooperation with the municipalities has been very good in handling this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U599	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U600	Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! In general, child benefit in general is also needs-based. If we want to support children, this need is already proven by the fact that the child exists. At the same time, there are poverty benefits or income support, which are subject to some criteria as to when they are granted. But in this case, we are providing poverty support on the condition that there is a child, and in order to receive this needs-based support, the family must remain poor. So the logic is that we favour poorer families, but poor people, I don't know why poor children are born, who also grow up poor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U601	Question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U602	Then why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U603	We're doing this to help poor children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U604	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U605	After all, the current parental benefit system is structured in such a way that the birth of each next child brings less support to the family. This is done on the basis of the mother's income, and if children are born into a family, for example, two and a half years apart, the second parental benefit is considerably lower than the first. How do you comment on this situation against the background of rhetoric that we want to help more and more those with more children?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U606	This is a debate on the Parental Benefits Act, which we did not discuss in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U607	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U608	First of all, Mr President, please do not interrupt the question when the person still has time to ask. But now my question to the waitress. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal states that historically the main objective of family benefits has been to reduce child poverty or prevent poverty in many countries. Based on what analysis do you claim that EUR 9.59 in support of a family living below the limit of relative poverty will prevent poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U609	If you have studied this draft, it is a universal increase in child support, starting with the third child of the family, which does not take account of the family's income and is for all children, and needs-based child support, which in the beginning is really the amount you said, but it should increase over the next few years. I hope that every such step, every euro, will help to help these children and their families out of poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U610	Thank you. I want to thank all those questioners who can fit in one minute! But if you can see that it doesn't fit in one minute, I'll give you a signal, because not everyone can watch the seconds running on that watch. Marika Tuus, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U611	I mean, if I have a few seconds, I might as well ask, but if someone's interrupting it, it's bothering me to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U612	Valeri Korb, please ask your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U613	Good colleague! The Centre Party Group has initiated a draft to stop child support from being included in incomes when calculating income support. In this regard, the question is: What are the reasons for the creation of a new type of support for less-insured families, which for a single-child family means only EUR 9.59 per month, and does not stop counting all child benefits into income, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U614	Good questioner! All these benefits and increases in benefits, which are stated in this draft, are no longer included in the income ratio of income to the income ratio of income support. In this sense, the proposal of the Centre Party has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U615	Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U616	Honourable waitress! The increase in child benefit for the third and subsequent children and the implementation of needs-based family allowances for the amount of benefits that will enter into force in 2015 are estimated to reduce the relative poverty rate of children by 2 percentage points. How many children do you think will get out of relative poverty thanks to the need-based family support that will apply on 1 July 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U617	Good questioner! You did a good job reading that question! I guess we're gonna have to do the math. And this 2% is not 2% of the number of children living in poverty, which is about 55,000, but of all children. On this basis, this calculation has to be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U618	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U619	Honourable waitress! If we take the explanatory statement, we will find out how Estonia deals with relative poverty. The basis is EUR 280 for the first, EUR 140 for the second over 14 years of age and EUR 84 for the younger than 14 years of age. But we know that life doesn't stand still, life changes, prices change, and the social situation changes. Here's the question. Is it planned to change the amount of aid in view of the increase in prices? If so, when will these updated data become the basis for granting the aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U620	Good questioner! As you yourself said, the basis for determining relative poverty is an internationally recognised formula, or model. It also takes account of the price increases and the cost of living index and changes accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U621	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U622	Good waitress! According to Statistics Estonia, 1146 children were born in 2011 less than in 2010. Due to the large decrease in the number of births and the increase in the number of deaths, this year the age was negative: minus 565 people. Does it not seem to you that this shows that government policies and family benefits do not guarantee confidence for young people, which is why they are afraid to give birth to children? The €19.18 grant is clearly insufficient to support, for example, recreational education. We feel that the new bill does not ensure that people have the courage to have children. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U623	Any measure that, even by a few euros, improves the situation of families with children is a step in the direction of giving a little confidence to families with children, as well as to those who choose to have children. This bill is certainly a major step in this direction compared to previous years' decisions. Of course, we want to work together with local governments, especially with regard to child care. I hope that, despite the different views of the world, this cooperation will be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U624	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U625	Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! The mechanism you are proposing with this draft is quite complex and will certainly add a burden to the officials. At the same time, it is not known how much this increases the income of Estonian families on average and whether this supplement will cover the rise in prices, whether it will cover the increase in the price of electricity to 20%, for example. Perhaps it would be easier not to create such a mess here who can and who can't? Perhaps we could have a much greater effect if we prevented the price of electricity from rising even by excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U626	These questions have nothing to do with this bill. But if we look at the combined effects in addition to this draft, then next year's state budget provides for wage increases and pension increases, and I think that all of this in combination will help the Estonian people survive the difficult time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U627	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U628	Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! First of all, I recognise the Commission that it has taken into account the proposal to pay additional support to multiples. In our proposal, this additional amount was higher, but half a step has been taken. It is also a good thing that this money is no longer taken into account when calculating income support. But at the same time, I find it humiliating for a person to go and prove that he is poor and receive an additional EUR 9 per child for that. Does this still serve this purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U629	Good questioner! When you get acquainted with this bill, you'll see that that's going to increase too. This support will be much higher from 2015 onwards. But if we look at the policies of recent years, as well as the policies of different governments, we must recognise that this is a symbolic breakthrough and we will be able to increase much more child support with you in the future. My personal view is also that universal child support must be increased, and I hope that we will get to the debate on such a draft before 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U630	Please, Mr Kalla, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U631	Dear waitress, An association of rural municipalities and a union of cities have expressed their views on the draft. To date, however, the initiators have not mentioned the views of associations that unite families with children. Have the initiators consulted, for example, the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families and the Estonian Alliance of Parents during the proceedings? If they have been consulted, what have they thought about the reform of national family benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U632	Good questioner! At first reading, I explained that, even before we initiated this draft, we invited organisations related to Estonian children and families, who had almost 20 members, to the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee and, to a large extent, on the basis of these proposals, the draft has been drawn up. In the same way, we have held a joint sitting with them since the draft was put into procedure, and their opinion has been positive. We have also taken into account their additional remarks. However, this achievement is certainly not complete. It is no public secret that we still have to work together to support children and families more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U633	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U634	Honourable waitress! You have already said several times that there is not enough money to raise child support for all children. Have you also discussed that if you lower the parental benefit ceiling, there would be more support for all children? What is your opinion on this? Have you discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U635	Since you asked if we had discussed this, my honest answer is that we have not discussed it on this draft. But I say so much that in order to increase universal child support for all, it would take an amount of EUR 120 million. If you take this money by lowering the parental benefit ceiling, the parental benefit would lose its meaning. I think we need to find money from other budget resources rather than really raising children's and families' policies as a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U636	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U637	Good waitress! I was reminded that when we dealt with the so-called Parental Pensions Act and adopted it, there was EUR 15 to 16 million for information activities. This time I can't find a line like this at all. How, then, do you intend to inform the people of Estonia that you have done such a great thing, either free of charge or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U638	That's a good question. There is no separate money for this, but at the same time the state budget provides for the costs necessary for the implementation of the law, in particular for the training of local government staff. I hope that, in the course of this, people will also be informed about these opportunities through the media. There really is no separate campaign money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U639	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U640	Good chairman of the committee! I am pleased to note that you have received the recognition that there is a need for extra money in the social field, because the money so far cannot guarantee a life worth living for all children. At the same time, I wonder why you do not want to allocate money to this area. Recently, for example, you have divided EUR 9.5 million into roofing money, it could have been channelled into child benefits and the effect would have been much greater, even though these children are not voters. According to Eurostat, we have 23.1% of people at risk of poverty and this figure has increased over the year. Is this support system somehow trying to alleviate the situation of people at risk of poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U641	Good questioner! I will answer the question directly: yes, this bill is trying to alleviate the situation of people who have fallen into poverty and to bring them out. We did not discuss this issue in the Commission, but my personal position is that in the future, hopefully, children will also have the right to vote in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U642	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U643	Mr President of the Commission. I have seen that your colleague, Jaanus Tamkivi, Chairman of the Reform Party Group, issued a press release trying to give the impression that there is something good in next year's budget and to apologise why no decision is taken to mitigate the rise in electricity prices. And the good he wrote down was that next year's budget will double the child benefits. Now that you look at this bill, it does not double child benefits. To add EUR 4 million means to continue something for third and fourth children and to continue to support children living in poverty for a 50% increase in support, i.e. an increase of EUR 9. What might Jaanus Tamkivi have had in mind when he recorded in the press release that child benefits would double? Do you have a plan to change the budget and really raise child support to EUR 36 for all children in solidarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U644	Good questioner! I cannot comment on this press release, I have not read it, and it was not once discussed in the Commission either. However, if you read this draft and this explanatory memorandum, you will see that, indeed, in 2015, the need-based child benefits, as well as the third and more children's benefits, will essentially double: almost EUR 100, will increase the third and more children's benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U645	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U646	Dear President of the Riigikogu, Mrs. Ene Ergma! Honourable waitress! My question concerns the possibility of challenging a negative decision taken by a local authority on the need-based family allowance for a rural parent. As far as I know, there is also such an opportunity in the current law, where there is an opportunity to challenge rejection decisions by a rural elder. The question arises from this: can you not provide statistics on such approaches? How often has such a challenge taken place, and how will these conflicts be resolved in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U647	Good questioner! We asked the same people in the ministry. It is not known that these decisions are in fact contested, but in the case of any measure, the law must state that, when a dispute arises, how it must be resolved. Since a new measure has been introduced, this procedure has also been incorporated into the law in question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U648	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U649	Good waitress! I tried to inherit it from Maret Maripuu, but he promised me later to give me a math lesson that was somehow cancelled. So I'm asking you. As we know, 19.5% of children live in relative poverty in Estonia. The initiators of the draft act promise that the percentage of these children will decrease by 2 percentage points after this law has been implemented. How do you measure it in a situation where the additional money is not an income?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U650	I hope Maret Maripuu still gives you that math lesson. I'd definitely be there to get smarter. I asked the Minister and the officials the same question about where this 2% came from. Is it 2% of 55,000 children, or is it some other percentage? If it were 2% of 55000, the measure would not be very effective. But it is 2% precisely of the number of all children and the hope that they will rise above the poverty line at least thanks to this support. However, of course, this support is not the only reason why it can happen, but hopefully it will improve the overall economic situation of families and it will be the job that will help to cope with raising its children, not only with subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U651	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U652	Dear waitress, I opened this press release that has actually been made with Jaanus Tamkivi and Kaia Iva. Tamkivi quote: 'By paralyzing the work of the Riigikogu, the opposition prevents us from adopting a budget that raises salaries and pensions and doubles child benefits. ' We're talking about the budget for next year. From your reply, I understand that Tamkivi's claim has still been deeply incorrect, because even if you look very positively at child benefits, the 2013 budget will not double them, nor will it in 2014 do it, but the 2015 budget will almost do it. Is it normal for a member of the government to misunderstand the increase in child benefits? Maybe we should do a math lesson for the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U653	Good questioner! Mr Tamkivi's argument is quite correct, because the adoption of this draft, which here, I do not want to say, is being obstructed, but what we are discussing here today in an extraordinary and not ordinary session, also means that child subsidies will indeed be doubled by 2015 step by step, together with need-based family support. So Jaanus Tamkivi is not lost. The question is in the context, and if it is only budgetaryly linked, then next year there really is no doubling, but in this context, if it is taken that this draft is directly related to the state budget for next year, then Jaanus Tamkivi is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U654	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U655	Dear waitress, Amendment 7 provides for family allowances to be paid to the parent raising the child, the parent with whom the child basically lives and who takes care of him every day. Can you explain to me in more detail how this family must prove that the child lives mainly there? And how much more support will families receive thanks to this amendment? And how many families are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U656	Good questioner! This is one very important amendment with which we want to make a very significant change in the legal space so far, precisely in the interests of the children. We will put the children's interests ahead of us in order to ensure support for the families in which they live. This is based, above all, on the proof of the parent who receives child benefit and perhaps other child benefits. If the parents are separated and the children live with one parent or another, they must agree with each other, and the state also provides, through the Social Insurance Board, for whom child benefit is paid directly. It is particularly important, as I have already explained, that if there are children of different life together and their parents decide to live together, then in the future, for example, if one parent has two children and the other parent has two children, then they will not have a two-child family, as is the case with the current law, but a four-child family. With this change, we allow them to officially be a family of four children after marriage, and then they will receive the benefits paid to the third and every more children of the family. So, good questioner, that's a very good point. This is, in my opinion, one of the most serious changes in our entire system of child and family benefits, which, unfortunately, has so far received very little attention. This was developed by the Commission in cooperation with all the political groups, and I want to thank everyone for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U657	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U658	Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! I have a question for the sake of a verbatim. At second reading, we have replaced the words 'need-based child benefit' with 'need-based family allowance', but you have quite often used the word pair 'need-based child benefit'. In fact, this bill no longer has needs-based child support, but is family support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U659	Thank you, good questioner, for that clarification. I'm stuck with the idea we had at first. Indeed, it is legally correct to say 'need-based family support', that is the amendment we have made to the draft in the Committee on Social Affairs. Many thanks to all the Members of the Commission who have drawn attention to this. This explains and clarifies the meaning of the law that it is a need-based family allowance for children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U660	Please, Mr Borodich, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U661	Thank you, Madame Ergma, President of the Riigikogu. Good Margus! In the explanatory memorandum and the report's rhetorical statement, the principle of more support for those who need more help and have more children must continue to apply to the payment of family allowances. At the same time, the current draft is a mixed system, part is universal child support and part is needs-based. At what point is it planned to make this one hundred percent need-based, or completely eliminate this universal part? Have you complained about the amount of universal support that would be released, in purely theoretical terms, how much needs-based child support could be if we only support those who need it most?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U662	The loss of universal child support has never been discussed and there is no basis for fear that it will disappear. On the contrary, we are adding a substantial amount to the universal child benefit, starting with the third child of the family. We have also been given international recommendations to create a needs-based child benefit system alongside the universal support system. A separate subject we will certainly be dealing with here is precisely the issue of services, i.e. services-based measures that are necessary for families with children and especially for families with poor children. The whole system should be so complex. However, no one is going to lose universal child support, and I can give the floor here that as long as the IRL is in the government, it will never be discussed seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U663	Please, colleague Valeri Korb, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U664	Good colleague! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law thoroughly outlines what the family's income must be in order to obtain the right to need-based support. These formulas leave the view that it is only parents, but in the meaning of the law, it is a household, or people who live at one address. This means that grandparents' pensions are also taken into account when the allowance is paid. Could you comment on this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U665	This is an issue that concerns different grants, as well as the payment of income support. In this sense, this system is analogous, nothing new has been devised. At the same time, we have specified in the draft what will be taken into account and not taken into account in the net income problem. We have specified the deduction of income tax, unemployment insurance contributions, compulsory funded pension contributions and all other such public liabilities from net income. And one of the good news that has already come to light here today is that this law has been passed, that income support does not count towards the amount of need-based student education allowances. So we're going in the right direction. But indeed, it is a grant that is calculated using the same formula as for income support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U666	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. I'm opening negotiations and calling for Marika Tuus-Laul. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U667	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Once, a foreigner asked how much child support we had, and heard that it was 19 euros, he asked if it was a day. Now the government, the government coalition, is talking about a major reform of children's benefits, which has been expected for years, but overall child support does not rise by one cent. If the family does not live below the poverty line, it will only receive EUR 19 support from the child, as it has for many years. That money's still frozen. In order to receive more support, the family has to go several times a year to prove that it is really a very poor family living below the poverty line, or that it is a family with many children. In essence, those asking for alms will receive support. In order for the family to receive more support, it must fall into poverty first. Of course, the state must also support the poorest. In 2010, nearly one fifth of the Estonian population lived in relative poverty. There are 63000 children living in Estonia at the risk of deep poverty, relative poverty and poverty, so one in five children. The survey prepared by the child ombudsman shows that the situation of children in Estonia has deteriorated in recent years and that their situation is also more difficult than the average level of poverty in the population. When we talk about poverty support, risk families and support for vulnerable families, we would ask for this in the context of the Social Welfare Act. This should not be resoundingly mentioned as a reform of children's benefits and it should be called out that children's benefits are our priority. Unlike poverty support, universal child support is a normal element of family policy, plus services such as day-care facilities and opportunities for education of interest, as well as school allowances. Uniform child support also has a purpose other than poverty support. Child benefit is intended for every child born. It's about valuing a child. After all, the population in Estonia is constantly decreasing. Statistics Estonia has stated that this year will be at all the year of the lowest birth rate in recent years. It shouldn't be the first time you're poor and then you get support. A normal family with two or three children, where the mother and father work, must also receive child benefit. Although there are three children in the family and parents earn an average salary, income per family member remains below the poverty line. When it comes to the position of the Centre Party, we support raising child support for all families. The EUR 19,18 child benefit is no longer sufficient to support the child's full development. In order to help families with children most in need, we have launched a draft to stop taking child benefits into account in the family's income when granting income support. It is also a fact that families who belong to risk households and who are entitled to income support are in a worse position than those receiving living alone income support. In particular, for these families, the subsistence limit is lower for the second and the next family members, and the child benefit is included in the family's income. In addition, our view is that the subsistence limit for the second family member and each subsequent family member should be 100% of the subsistence limit for the first family member. The income limit would then rise from EUR 61.36 to EUR 76.70. Our proposal is also to raise child care fees to at least EUR 200 per month until the child's third year of life. We also issued such drafts several times during the previous term. Support for families with many children has already been discussed here today. You know very well that, in the case of triplets or a higher number of multiple birth grants, we have been in favour of this being EUR 10000. Both parents of triplets could be allowed to stay on parental leave until the children reach three years of age and receive child care allowance up to a half of the child care allowance until the children reach three years of age. As has already been said, the state can also support children with services. The position of the Centre Party is that the payment of the state subsidy should be restored at the so-called triple rate of child benefit. This amount should be EUR 28,77. Of course, free food should be provided for upper secondary school pupils and kindergartens, and school food support should rise to one euro. Hobby education should be publicly supported in order to ensure that sport and recreational groups are accessible to all. Today, coalition parties are talking about alleviating child poverty and improving their situation, but at the same time we are recalling how many cuts have been made in their time. In autumn 2009, 400 kroons were abolished. In January 2009, the income tax exemption for the first child of the family was abolished. In January 2009, VAT on books and textbooks was raised from 5% to 9%, VAT on cinema tickets and sports events, concerts, performances and similar tickets was increased from 5% to 18% and then to 20%. So we do not see that the power union, apart from words, really wanted to help the children. The coalition simply wants to label children with needs-based child support. And we fear that children will not be born, because it is only when the family is already in poverty that we can expect help from the country. However, we support equal treatment and therefore universal subsidies that are used in the Nordic countries. Our position is also supported by Praxis's analyst Andres Võrk, who stresses that the need-based child support of the path chosen by the government association will increase bureaucracy. As has already been said many times, creating a poverty trap for families who are going to receive support is another threat. I, too, think that we should think and consider before adopting this law. However, let us reconsider what is really the point of child benefit and family allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U668	Thank you very much. Now please, colleague of the speaker's desk, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U669	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Today we are discussing bill 294, we have reached second reading. In order not to be definitively negative, I will say from the outset that the draft has undoubtedly gotten a better face than it had at first reading. The names have been made right. We are no longer talking about need-based child support, but about family support. To the congratulations of the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, it must also be said that he has been involved, listened, although not all the proposals have been taken into account. The bill reflects a number of positive issues and suggestions, such as the increase in child benefit for third and more children, the higher birth grant for triple births or the higher number of multiple births. True, it is sad that if twins are born, their birth grant will remain the same. And if the twins are born as the first children of the family, there may be no hope for need-based family support. On average, triplets are known to be born three to five times a year, in good years. What is also positive is that we are talking about supporting children and families at all. According to this bill, during the summer months, families have an excellent opportunity to receive child support, so it is nice for them to have easier children to raise during the summer. The problem of the honeycomb family has also come up with a solution. This, however, leads to a practical end in the case of this bill. Unfortunately, in Estonia, children and families continue to be looked at and supported according to the order of birth of their children. But if the family doesn't have the first child or the second, or the third. The situation is even sadder when a third child is born into the family, but the first child has grown up or goes to college. Then the family, who first received a need-based family allowance, will fall back into a situation where they will no longer receive this allowance because there are two minor children left in the family. There's a lot of families like that. What else? Today, in fact, the state is also saying that a family with two children, a little more than a minimum wage or a minimum wage, does not see an increase in child benefit. The increase in universal child benefit is also not expected for families with two children. Even if they may receive income support, they may not receive needs-based family benefit. This is already quite a problem and has been brought to the attention of social workers in several municipalities. They have done calculations on the basis of the information they have received from the media and, in the interests of the draft presentation, by addressing the MPs, according to which very many families who provide income support for themselves will not receive needs-based family support. It is known that when calculating income support, the costs of housing, electricity etc. will be deducted from the family's income. If the recipient of income support earns a little more than a minimum wage in Estonia, he or she may not receive need-based family allowance. A situation has arisen in Estonia where a proud Estonian must go to prove his poverty. Rather, the aim should be to support children's growth and indeed to create more services. However, we have a situation in which families may have to schedule the wall to remember the evidence to be provided several months ago. If there is a student in the family, the need-based education allowance depends on the status of the income tax return of the previous year. I'll give you an example. If I, who was a member of the Riigikogu last year, were unemployed today, my daughter would certainly not receive need-based education support because last year's tax return... I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U670	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U671	... he wouldn't have a line of applicants. Secondly, when calculating income support, the family must withdraw a salary certificate and proof of expenses for the previous month. If he or she goes to the same municipality to apply for a family allowance based on needs, he or she must withdraw evidence of the previous three months' income. For 2013, social workers have identified each other as the year of taking evidence. At the moment, it is not clear how the computer program will survive, as there were problems when it was launched in the summer months where it was not necessary to enter so much data. Now, new support is added. The money for training social workers must now also be used for information. It also means that the subject of a mother-in-law comes up again. If there is a mother - in - law, there is probably no hope of receiving this benefit, as her income goes into the family's income. If both mother-in-law and father-in-law happen to exist, then surely the family does not have a matter of their own application to the municipality, even though the mother-in-law and father-in-law may be living in their own bread, just the address is one. And a family in real trouble can't rent an apartment, much less buy it. However, the role of social workers should be to address substantive problems in the municipality, not to collect papers, to go to homes to check who lives and who lives with. So, what do you say in the end? What I want to say is that on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, we have put forward a number of proposals so that this law becomes an even better and fairer law. But these proposals were not taken into account. Although what would be easier than excluding children's money from income support and adding a certain amount for each child? In this way, families receiving income support could also be supported in raising children. As this proposal was also not taken into account, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over to the Bureau the second reading of the draft proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U672	Thank you. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U673	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for eight minutes now!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U674	I'd love to, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U675	I always wonder if I'm talking for eight minutes, because it's not easy, but I'll try. You see, this bill seems to be a reform for the sake of reform. You have made this awfully difficult and it has not been easy for the Social Affairs Committee either. The chairman of the committee worked hard to make things a little clearer for us, especially as far as you, me and our children are concerned. It's an old joke where my dad asks my mom, "What am I gonna move and rumble in that bedroom? ' 'Oh, nothing,' says the mother, 'your children and my children are beating up our children as always. ' The problem is, of course, for a child who has a parent who is somewhere away, who has to get the alimony from him, who has to be sued or whatever. But if he's sitting in a prison in Uruguay where he's lost his way, planting cabbages in Australia, or not knowing anything about him, how do you get him, and who are you suing? In any case, I believe that those people who have to consider subsidies are absolutely not happy about this law. But everyone would be happy if we could raise universal child support, because it would be very simple and transparent. When we say that subsidies must be needs-based, I think that it is absolutely enough to have a child to show. And if there is a child to show, he should receive the prescribed child benefit. Later, when a child goes to school, he should receive the so-called "panish money" as well as lunch. That's how everything would be uniform and neat. And those families who live in poverty should receive income support, and it should be the kind that ensures that they live humanely. But we're creating inequality. For children who receive poverty support as a condition for having a child, it is also known that they are different. You know, when I went to school it was a long time ago, we also had a certain contingent who got free to eat. The whole class knew these kids, and they were pointing the finger at them. It's not gonna be easy for kids like that. That's not a good solution at all. In this case, I believe that family policy and poverty policy are completely misplaced. These are different things. If we make it a condition to have a child, in order not to confuse these things with basically income support. In this way, we really place families who hide their incomes or strive for nothing better, but who have children in order to receive this hidden support for poverty. For example, when we talk about unemployment benefit, the government coalition says that unemployment benefit must not be too high. This should not encourage people to be excluded from the labour market. It is claimed that people would prefer high unemployment benefits and would not go to work. It is the same logic to say that people really do not want to work, but are constantly giving birth to children in order to receive it on a need-based, poverty-based basis, or I do not understand what kind of child support. As I have already said, with poor people, they have poor children for some reason. In this regard, I recall another story. When schoolchildren were told to write an essay about poor people, a boy wrote that he knew a very poor family, where the father is very poor, the mother is enormously poor, all their children are poor, their driver is poor, the maid is poor, the cook is poor, and all 12 servants are very poor. You see, poverty is also one of those things that depends on whether a person is working officially or informally. For example, in Ida-Virumaa, it is lamented that not all people simply take out social benefits. They're afraid they're gonna check their incomes, and then it turns out they're not as poor as you can see on paper. In any case, I am absolutely sure that we should offer more transparent and sensible subsidies: universal child support, and, as I mentioned earlier, country support and school lunch for children. School lunch is often the only time a day for a large number of children to get a decent warm meal. The word 'law' has been mentioned four times in this bill (I am not going to say its name by heart right now, I may be wrong). This gives a clear indication that once it turns out that this reform is still entangled over the reform and that this is not going to work, we will soon be back with the same law in this Chamber again. And then it's called one more word, 'law', because we have to change that law again. And one more thing. The government coalition is putting before us drafts that will make our lives better and better. We raise the bed-day and visit fee and say it's very good. We're raising excises, and once again we're told it's great, it's very necessary. We're up for electricity, but it's great, too. What a joy the electricity market is opening up! The chickens and hamsters that we see on TV are the ones who are most pleased about it. This is what the government coalition thinks is a picture of the Estonian people, the taxpayers. Except life shows something completely different. All the wonderful things you put before us, somehow, lower the ratings of the government departments, especially those of the Reform Party, and this is symptomatic. I say that it is still important to think that the standard of living of the people is generally low. I propose that we focus on limiting the overall price increase and reducing the excise duty added to the electricity price. If we could come to an agreement on this, we could all go tonight, even now, with a clear conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U676	Thank you very much. Now, please, colleague Tarmo Tamme of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U677	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am sad to hear here that coalition politicians are unable to implement what they want to implement. One example is certainly the draft law 294 on child support. I am asking why politics are being made at all and why they are coming to power when their policies cannot be implemented. I think it is a shame to say that this is our great victory, that we are increasing child support by nine euros, which must be taken to the municipal or municipal administration to prove every quarter. I myself have been the mayor of Põlva for about 18 years, as mayor of Põlva for the last 11 years. And that is why I came to power because we fulfilled the goals set and the promises we made during the elections. For example, the birth grants in this city were 5,000 kroons when you took the old money. We also paid for the food day in kindergarten, not just in school. The children entering the first class were granted an additional grant, which was 2000 kroons at the time. And I think half of the children were still paid for high school where there was no total tax exemption, 50% and some 100% of the cost of a meal day. The result of all of this was that in Põlva the birth rate of children for the last ten years always exceeded the mortality rate of the population, so the increase was positive. Everyone served that purpose. Why the country doesn't want to do the same is incomprehensible to me. It's like there's no money to be found for it. If we come to this draft, there is certainly something positive about it. What is positive is that triple birth grant or more multiple birth grants will increase and will grow significantly, even though not in the order of magnitude that we had foreseen by the Centre Party. But I think that our proposal has been taken as an example and that this support will be increased. Another good thing is that child benefit is no longer included in income support. At the same time, how this support is awarded is, in fact, humiliating people. The need to prove that a person is poor and needs additional support from EUR 9.59 per month is not, in my opinion, an appropriate behaviour for the country. According to Eurostat, 23.1% of people live at risk of poverty in Estonia, or essentially 1 in 4 people, including about 60,000 children. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why the population of our country is falling and going to those countries where children are being cared for. The country should review its priorities and find the means to support children and families. If they say we don't have the means to raise child support, look around you guys! Do not share the roof money of 9.5 million euros before the municipal elections! Assemble all the administrative costs that go to ensure that parents can prove that they are poor and need additional support from EUR 9.59 per month. There's a lot of opportunities, but if they're not exploited, it's what happens when people leave and the number of births decreases. You could also change the Parental Pay Act because it has not served its purpose: the number of births last year decreased and the number of births this year is a disaster. If politicians do not understand that this law does not fulfil its purpose, then the law should be amended and the funds should be diverted so that children can receive support even after birth. I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U678	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U679	The aim of the state has been to promote an increase in the number of births. But the way children continue to grow up after they are one and a half years of age is not much of a national concern. If we were to divide this amount, which is intended to support children, now two thirds of this money is going to support births, one third to raise a child, fairer and fairer, by sharing it equally, then we would have better met this goal so that children can go to bed in Estonia with a full stomach. I think this would also increase the safety of parents and the number of births of children in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U680	Thank you very much. Now, please, my colleague, Yana Toom.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U681	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are already discussing here today, I do not know for many times a very important draft which, as if, amends the provisions of the National Family Benefits Act and the Social Welfare Act, which should help the most vulnerable households in our society, families with children. Allowances for families living below the limit of relative poverty will be increased in two stages. There is also an increase in public support for children's families. From 2015 onwards, this increase compared to the amount of this year's support is already significant from EUR 57 to EUR 95 for the third and each of the next children. Fortunately, the bill also provides for a substantial increase in the grant paid for the birth of triplets, not as much as the parents of triplets wanted, but this too. The provision under which child benefit was not paid to comprehensive school graduates during the entire long summer break is also amended. Now it will be paid until 1 September and no one will wait until the educational institution confirms its student lists in order to pay it out afterwards, as it did for some reason for years. However, there are also bottlenecks in this fine document. Despite the fact that we drew attention to this in numerous debates, there is essentially the same draft in the Chamber today, where certain questions remain unanswered. However, at this point, I must agree with the tired Mr Tsahkna, who left the hall, who said that for the first time the situation of their families has been regulated, so-called your children and my children. A traditional family may not be as common in Estonia as it used to be. This is really one big step forward, but that's all. For the first time, the draft law aims to combat child poverty. We know very well that 19.5% of children live in relative poverty in Estonia. We also know that relative poverty, the so-called Estonian way, is 60% of median income. This means that the first family member will receive less than 280 euros per month, the next family member who is older than 14 years will receive half of this sum, or 140 euros per month, and children who are younger than 14 years will receive a third of this amount, i.e. a little more than 80 euros. But living in relative poverty does not mean that all these families are 'equally poor'. Some are missing a few dozen euros from crossing the poverty line, while some live on unemployment and income support, and for them the relative poverty limit is already rich. But look at what the initiators of the draft offer to children living in relative poverty. The amount of needs-based child benefit will be EUR 9 59 cents for the first child and EUR 19 cents for the next children from 1 July of the following year (not even from 1 January). Note that not every next child receives 19 euros and 18 cents, but is given on the gang. This means that the family with children living in relative poverty will receive a maximum of 28 euros and 77 cents as needs-based support from next summer. These mothers and grandfathers and grandmothers who are listening to this broadcast in this hall, in the cafeteria or in their rooms now know very well how much winter boots, jackets, exercise or skis, not to mention a bicycle, cost. Surely we all understand that EUR 28 or EUR 9 for one child is not enough support for the poor child. Let us be honest with you, this is not at all support. This is also known by the initiators of the draft, who wrote in the explanatory memorandum to the adoption of the law... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U682	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U683	... that this measure will help to reduce the number of children living in relative poverty by two percentage points. When I asked Margus Tsahkna here half an hour ago how it was mathematically possible, if we do not operate with statistical data, which is not possible in this case, because this new amount is not an income, then he also owed his answer. This is some sort of estimate, but even if it is, let us be honest, if we reduce the number of poor children by two percentage points, it is not an effective measure to combat poverty. It's more of a political slogan. So the country of Estonia, especially in a situation where the population is ageing and young families increasingly choose a more child-friendly country as their children's country of birth, is obviously few. I may have already told you about this remote control, but once again I was shocked when I learned that the most child-rich Estonian family, the Smoke family, with 14 children, moved to Britain a year and a half ago. I'd say you did the right thing when you looked at it materially. Even if we add these bright promises, which is shared by this same bill 294, then their living in Estonia would not be very rosy, to say the least. The Centre Party Group has proposed 15 proposals for this draft. Among other things, we also proposed raising child support for all children, but it was not taken into account, it was not supported. We believe that, in this case, the 294 draft law does not fulfil the objective on which it seems to be aimed, that it is rather a political declaration. We also believe that this bill should be revised, i.e. an effective correction of errors in order to actually help our children, not only poor children, but also families with children. The birth of children in Estonia should also be encouraged, because we have few children and we should not expect an increase in such laws. On this basis, the Estonian Centre Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U684	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for us to go to the examination of the amendments. 15 amendments have been tabled to this draft law. Let's start from the beginning. The first amendment has been tabled by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu and has been fully taken into account. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U685	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I ask for this amendment to be voted on, and since we are in an emergency session, please do a presence check before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U686	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have been asked to check our presence, please, we will do the presence check. 55 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 46 are missing. I will now vote on the first amendment tabled by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please vote! 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu; the commission has taken full account of it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U687	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U688	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U689	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall vote on the second amendment tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please vote! 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The amendment was supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu; the commission has taken full account of it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U690	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U691	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U692	I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Please vote! 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has failed. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U693	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U694	Okay. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U695	Thank you. Ten minutes of intermission before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U696	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U697	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U698	Thank you! Before the vote, please perform a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U699	Okay. Please, presence check! 57 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, there are no 44. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the lead committee. Please vote! 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has not taken account of it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U700	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U701	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U702	Good fellows! The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall vote on the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 11 members of the Riigikogu, 51 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U703	Thank you. I would like to ask for the sixth amendment to be voted, and before the vote, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U704	Thank you! Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U705	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 14 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We will proceed to the seventh amendment tabled by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, the position of the commission is to take full account of. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U706	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U707	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U708	Good fellows! The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There were 52 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U709	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U710	Thank you. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U711	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There were 52 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U712	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on. I'll take a one-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U713	Break one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U714	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 12 votes for, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 11 has also been tabled by the lead committee. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U715	Thank you. I ask for the 11th amendment to be voted, and before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U716	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U717	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 11th amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There were 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U718	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U719	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U720	Good fellows! The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 12th amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There were 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U721	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U722	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U723	Good fellows! The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 13th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 7 members of the Riigikogu, 52 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U724	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U725	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U726	Good fellows! The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 14th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 11 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 52 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 15th amendment has been proposed by the lead committee. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U727	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U728	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U729	The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 15th amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There were 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no one opposed and 2 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Good fellows! We have therefore examined all the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. Two statements have been made to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. One is from the Social Democratic Party Group and the other from the Estonian Centre Party Group. The content of both statements is one: the second reading of bill 294 should be interrupted. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U730	Thank you. I ask for a ten-minute break before we vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U731	Got it. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U732	Good fellows! The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I am voting on the proposal by the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of bill 294. Please take a stand and vote. There were 15 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of draft 294 has therefore been completed, as well as the discussion of the 11th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U733	We will move on to the next item, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending § 177 of the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Please ask Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U734	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U735	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act amending § 177 of the Employment Contracts Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union on 7 November, was completed in this Chamber on 1 December. a. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 3 December. By the deadline set, 11 amendments were tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft and the amendments tabled to it before the second reading at its meeting on 4 December. The Commission did not support the proposed amendments in a consensual manner. The Committee on Social Affairs proposes that the second reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U736	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, you didn't touch a word about the substance of the bill. Why don't you tell me what this law is for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U737	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U738	Thank you, good questioner! We've already discussed this bill here, and I was hoping you'd be familiar with its contents. The substance of the draft is that the unemployment allowance will be raised from EUR 65 to EUR 101.5.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U739	Thank you. Good waitress! You mentioned in the first reading of the draft, which was on 22 November, that the Committee on Social Affairs also invited a representative of the Chairman of the Confederation of Trade Unions, the Chairman of the Management Board of TALO and the Confederation of Employers. You did not reflect any more on the debate with them. Can you explain to us how these organisations feel about this increase in unemployment benefit? The grant will now be EUR 101,5, although initially EUR 145 was promised. What do they think about that? Are they even aware of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U740	Good questioner! We did indeed invite our partners to the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, who did not support this proposal because the original agreement was different. And, as you know, the government came here with a different proposal to raise unemployment benefits, not to EUR 101.5, but to EUR 145. The Committee on Social Affairs acted honestly in that it invited its social partners and we discussed this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U741	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U742	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The rapporteur, who initiated the draft act, stated at first reading in this Chamber that she had not specifically briefed herself on what exactly EUR 3.5 million would be spent on. I'm gonna ask you this time. In fact, according to the draft explanatory memorandum, EUR 141480 is spent on a public health prevention strategy. Why don't you explain a little bit more specifically where this sum is going and what it's going to do with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U743	Thank you. All these areas, which are also described in the explanatory memorandum, relate to the increase in the salaries of medical staff, the increase in wages, which is precisely financed by the state budget. The salaries of medical personnel in this particular area are also financed from the state budget. They, too, will receive money in accordance with the agreement concluded or actually concluded between the Medical Association, the Hospital Association and the Government of the Republic. All these things are written here. It is not only the calculation of resident working days and the salary of ambulance workers, but all those medical workers who are paid from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U744	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U745	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! First, I want to ask you half a question. You must have been wrong when you said that the Commission was consensually willing not to support these proposals. Do you understand my question? Please specify this from the point of view of the protocol. But my complete question is this: why did the Commission not support any of the proposals? Can you formulate the reason in general terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U746	Thank you so much for asking me that question. I let in a mistake in my speech. Indeed, two members of the Commission were in favour of these proposals, 5 against and 0 abstentions. In terms of protocol, this is a very important issue. The Committee on Social Affairs did not support the proposals because they deviated from the idea of this draft initiative. I can admit that there was no very long debate in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U747	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U748	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, At first reading, the rapporteur who initiated the draft stated that regionally we have very different levels of unemployment and that it is easier to find work in certain regions than, for example, in South-East Estonia. Can you tell me whether an increase in unemployment benefit could help to reduce regional specificities and, if so, to what extent? And what measures does the coalition plan to take to ensure that residents of remote areas of Estonia also find a job, especially in South-East Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U749	Thank you. The purpose of unemployment benefit is not to allow people to actively seek employment, but precisely to ease the period during which they do not receive benefits from the unemployment fund. At the end of last year, the Riigikogu also proposed major amendments and substantial changes to the law in order to make the work of the unemployment fund more flexible, precisely through active labour market measures. So, in the sense of general philosophy, it is still the search for active employment, together with the measures of the unemployment fund, that will enable people to achieve a situation in which they have a job and also a life worth living through it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U750	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U751	Thank you, Madam President. I would ask you to respond simply for the sake of the verbatim report or to inform colleagues. You honestly said that the debate on our amendments was not very substantive. I must say that I was exactly six minutes late for this committee meeting. By then, 11 proposals had been examined and voted down. Or am I wrong about the truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U752	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U753	No, you're not wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U754	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I am asking about Amendment 4, which has been made by the Centre Party Group. The aim of the proposal is to prohibit the termination of a contract of employment with an employee who is raising a child under three years of age due to redundancies. This amendment amends § 93 (1) of the Employment Contracts Act and adds the words 'or raises a child under three years of age'. However, the table of the amendments states 'not to be taken into account'. I understand if the Reform Party did not support it, because they are the ones who are pursuing such a peculiar social policy. But why did the IRL not support the proposal to protect families with children?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U755	Thank you. This particular change, which we have on this table today, concerns only the level of unemployment benefit. That's the focus. All other debates concerning the Employment Contracts Act have already taken place in the Riigikogu during the previous term, when we basically adopted a major reform, but certainly these discussions will be welcome here in the future. From the point of view of the initiators, your proposal greatly broadened the idea of the draft. I'm sure we'll get back to your proposal, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U756	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U757	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You really did a great job of reading. But you have mentioned on several occasions that there were also social partners in the Commission who agreed with your proposals. Several proposals from the Centre Party were not supported by the Commission. Would you be willing to explain who these social partners were, how many they were, and what their opinion was in the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U758	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, we invited the Commission's organisations of representatives of employers and employees. There were three organizations in total, as you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U759	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U760	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress, would you recall how many times exactly and when the increase to half the minimum wage has been postponed? And when will it finally happen, or will it never happen? If it was postponed earlier, this time it was not done, it was simply set a limit of EUR 101. Is that what it's gonna be? But yes, remember those times and dates again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U761	Thank you, good questioner! We did not discuss these dates and times in the Commission. However, I would like to remind you that if we compare the 60% increase in unemployment benefit with all the other benefits we are raising next year, as well as wages, we will not increase any other support so much. I want to say that this is still a very serious step towards helping people who are long unemployed and receiving unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U762	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U763	Thank you. Good colleague! Raising unemployment benefit from EUR 65 to EUR 101 is quite a good thing, but you promised to raise more. I don't understand why it couldn't be done. But my question relates to statistics, according to which last year, the minimum cost of a 30-day basket in a single household in 2011 was 85 euros. Do you think a person can handle this EUR 101.5 if he or she doesn't have a job?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U764	Thank you, good questioner! The amount of unemployment allowance must not be the amount of money that a person can freely live with. This may seem brutal, but in fact, unemployment benefit must be at a level that preserves the ability of people to cope with themselves as a minimum, but it should also continue to seek employment through active labour market measures. I therefore think that looking at our economic opportunities, raising unemployment benefit by 60% is a very big step that we are taking today and an important message that we are giving to the long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U765	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U766	Thank you, Madam President. Good Commission waitress! The country and its government will be assessed as credible if the government abides by the agreements. In April 2008, it was agreed in a trialogue that the unemployment benefit rate would be increased in three years' time. Today we are in a situation where this promise and agreement have not been fulfilled. I'm asking if you're ashamed to perform in front of this hall right now and say we're not fulfilling that promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U767	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U768	Thank you, Mr. Asker! As you understand, if you read this bill, unemployment benefit will be increased by 60%. That's the promise that's been made. What is true is that this support was allowed to be increased more. But I think that we should move forward in the same way with our other areas of life on the basis of the thoughts we had at the time. And I still want to say that this is a very big step that we are taking today. At the same time, we have other problems to solve. These are today's political decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U769	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! A little history. I think you also know that the last increase in unemployment benefit was in 2007. And when compared to the previous year, 2006, the increase was quite noticeable. While in 2006 this aid was EUR 27,8, it was EUR 65,4 from 2007. I have a pretty simple question. For six years, the unemployment benefit rate was preserved, almost frozen. How did this help the unemployed in the labour market? After that, we had a crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U770	Thank you. The situation is a little confusing for me in the sense that the economic crisis had nothing to do with unemployment rates. Rather, the unemployment rate increased during the economic crisis. Today it has fallen, not because of the unemployment benefit rate, but because of active labour market measures, and our economy has just recovered. On the basis of your question, I will continue to say that you too should be delighted that we are taking such a big step today, as a result of the rise in unemployment benefit, at 60%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U771	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U772	Thank you, Madam President. Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! This is a game of percentages: what percentage to name, what progress is being made or how many percent of our unemployment benefit is made up of the minimum wage. Speaking of which, how many percent of the minimum wage would you think would be appropriate for Estonia as a Member State of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U773	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U774	Thank you. I think that looking at our capabilities is currently worth EUR 101.5 per month, but we certainly hope to move with you towards a higher rate. I'm just reminding you what our background is and what our options are. I think that you, a good questioner, actually understand that opportunities are limited and, above all, it is important not to support the unemployed but to help them work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U775	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You said there were three representatives of the social partners in the Commission, but you did not say what their proposals were. It seemed as if they had accepted everything that happened in the Commission. Please give an overview of the proposals put forward by the social partners in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U776	Thank you. In short, the social partners were not satisfied with the fact that the Riigikogu has such a draft procedure. They insisted specifically on the agreement reached with the representatives of the Government of the Republic when the amendments to the whole employment contract law were negotiated. They did not make any specific proposals, but expressed their views which did not support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U777	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U778	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I will continue my good benchmate's question. We know that the government promised earlier that unemployment benefit would be increased to 50% of the minimum wage that was later withdrawn from the beginning of next year. Our group tabled an amendment which contained an increase in unemployment benefit to 50% of the minimum wage, not next year, but the following year. Why was this proposal not supported? This is not about the budget for next year, and the government could have maintained what was promised in principle by supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U779	Thank you. I think this was the most substantive of all of these amendments. The government has also told the Social Affairs Committee that, in the long term, this promise is indeed intended to be fulfilled and unemployment benefit increased to 50% of the minimum wage. I think that this issue will come to this debate next year and the initiative of the Centre Party Group will be remembered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U780	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I want to cross it down again, mark the non-fulfilment of promises, so I can still remember that. When the Employment Contracts Act was adopted in 2008, which made a number of paragraphs, we say, more hostile to workers, it was promised as a speed of hope that unemployment benefit would rise to 50% of the minimum wage in 2010. This commitment was subsequently postponed to 2013, as the economic crisis had claimed to be its own. For now, the crisis is said to be over, but the promise is still not being fulfilled. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U781	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U782	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U783	The good questioner himself mentioned history, our recent past. Those are the reasons that's hidden there. I think that the fact that we are raising unemployment benefit by 60% under current economic opportunities, especially when we look at what is happening not only in Estonia but around us, or in Europe, is a very bold and very tough step. It's worth being proud of.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U784	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. You mentioned that the amendments tabled by the Centre Party were dealt with very quickly, because they are, in your opinion, absent from the idea of the draft. However, they are clearly relevant to the Employment Contracts Act. I'm a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Today we discussed the Land Tax Act, which, on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance and with the votes of the IRL and Reform Party, also introduced the Tax Act on foreign pensioners. Obviously, it had nothing to do with this, but in the committee, your party associates thought that anything could be written into the law. You have before you our proposal that no dismissal decision can be made for pregnant women without coordination with the post-employment inspector, i.e. with his consent. This is clearly an amendment related to the Employment Contracts Act. Why did the Commission think that such a thing was not necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U785	Thank you. The Commission did not discuss this proposal in the light of whether it was necessary or not. I think we will get back to the amendments to the Employment Contracts Act in this way, perhaps during the composition of this Riigikogu. At the moment, we are particularly concerned with the issue of unemployment benefit. I am not going to open these details here, which is why we dealt with these proposals so quickly in the Committee on Social Affairs. This was not a problem between the opposition and the coalition, but a normal process of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U786	Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U787	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! To be honest, I am very affected by the argument that the coalition is constantly making in the process of this draft. This is as follows: if we were to raise unemployment benefits to an acceptable level, it would be as if the unemployed were to stay away from the labour market, because they are so lazy that they are not willing to work. But in 2008, when the tripartite agreement was signed, when prices were lower and life was a little easier, it was not too much. Would you be willing to withdraw from this argument, not use it? We're looking for money for doctors, but we're not trying to get our unemployed into the labour market faster, breaking their promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U788	Thank you, good questioner! I am going a little out of the debate that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. I express my personal position. Unemployment benefit is not an active measure to help people back into the labour market. Rather, if it rises above a certain level, it may indeed lead to a situation where a person is not interested in seeking active employment. That is why I think that, as a country, we should primarily contribute to helping people who are actively looking for work and helping and motivating those who are now long-term unemployed. It is clear that no level of unemployment benefit guarantees these people a full life. But when we look at what is important, I think it is really very important to ensure that, for example, residents are fully paid a week for 40 hours of work and that the pay of ambulance workers is increased. These choices have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U789	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U790	Thank you, Madam President. Good Commission waitress! I was shocked, to put it mildly, when you said that the 11 proposals of the opposition were voted through in more than six minutes. This raises the question of whether the meetings of the Commission should really be public in the future. I ask whether the Committee on Social Affairs has ever really discussed the opposition's proposals. Is what is happening in the Committee on Social Affairs an appropriate action for a democratic state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U791	Thank you, good questioner! I can say that 90% of our decisions we make have been consensual. On the previous draft, which we discussed here, too, a great deal of the proposals put forward by the opposition were taken into account. The reason why we discussed these proposals so quickly was because the representative of the Centre Party put them to the vote at the very beginning and all together. The vote was held in one round. This was not because of the social committee's leadership, but because of the will of the proposers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U792	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U793	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, not the proposals of the Central Party representative in the committee were put to the vote in one package, but by the chairman of the committee. In fact, the Commission was in a hurry because, on the same day, the Minister of Social Affairs had announced lunch to the Commission. That's where everyone was in a hurry. But the question is how the increase in the pay of doctors is linked to a limited increase in unemployment benefit. The increase in the salary of doctors could have come at the expense of the sickness fund's reserves, while the increase in unemployment benefit could have been arranged at the expense of the unemployment fund's reserve. Why can't you use the unemployment fund's reserve?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U794	Good questioner! I have tried to spare you from this situation, which I was unfortunately forced to say with the previous answer. Neither the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee nor any other member of the Social Affairs Committee believed that these proposals should be voted so quickly. Good Viktor! It was your proposal that they could be voted all at once and together. But that's not the point. And this lunch took place after a very long time, and the Committee on Social Affairs has never failed to do its job for any lunch. The other part of your question (which I think was the real point of the question) relates to legal, legal solutions. It is not possible to finance unemployment benefit from the unemployment fund's budget, as this is a cost directly attributable to the state budget. That's one. Secondly, as regards the introduction of the sickness fund's reserves, this is in fact not legally possible in this form. Especially for people who get paid directly from the state budget. These include, in particular, resident doctors and ambulance staff.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U795	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! We're opening negotiations, and I'm asking Viktor Vassilyev to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U796	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, What is it called if someone promises you EUR 468 for something, for example, but gives EUR 327? It has a variety of names, polite and not very polite, but of course cheating is. I don't think that's a big job win, a good deed, or a huge improvement. Speaking on this platform, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee said that we have far more important priorities than the unemployed. So what are the more important things? Is it more important to have an electricity excise or an increase in the price of electricity? Is it more important that our companies do not pay income tax? Is it important that huge sums of money are taken out of Estonia as dividends? I think it is important for the Estonian people who are doing badly in the sense that they are unemployed. They are residents of Estonia! And when we are told that unemployment benefit does not have to allow a person to live with dignity, I ask: if we want someone back into the labour market, who do we want back there? Do we want a person who has been starved and azocialized back into the labour market? After all, we would still like a full citizen who has not lost his working habits, who can handle himself, who can do anything but go somewhere in the social department asking for alms. We want him to look for a job. Another problem is where he is looking for the job. Our country's policies do not currently favour the creation of new jobs. And so it turns out that this person, who has become unemployed, is going to look for a job somewhere else. He's planting cabbages in Australia, and he's getting a few thousand euros worth of it. He's going to be a Finnish builder, anywhere. But he's not gonna find a job here, and that's how he's a lost soul for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U797	Ladies and gentlemen, The discussion in the Chamber is getting so hard that the speaker is not heard. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U798	I have important things to say to you. Whether the unemployment benefit is 50% or 35% of the minimum wage, in any case it is insolently low, because experts consider the 70% of the minimum wage to be fair. Besides, we're playing with some percentages here, but it doesn't really make it possible to live up to the money. It's very convenient to play with percentages, of course. Let's say the unemployment benefit rose by 60% to a huge increase! When we are talking about health, for example, that it is going to be around 6% of GDP, we are talking about percentages. This percentage is not bad, but in financial terms, it is about five to six times lower than the European average and seven times lower than the Germans. No one gets a percentage, no one gets a percentage, or the unemployed live a percentage. When wages are low, those who work can strike. But what can be done by the unemployed? He can't strike, but he can still do something: he "strikes" with his feet, takes his legs out from under his stomach and keeps going where he's better off living. He's sweeping the country's dust off his feet. Is that what we want? I don't think that should be our goal. Our unemployed are the same Estonian residents as those who work, and they deserve a decent life, not shameful support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U799	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U800	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you a little bit of how the Employment Contracts Act was ever passed, what the conditions were and how long it was done. In fact, it has certainly been done for over ten years. I remember that when the draft law was brought to the Riigikogu for several times in 2003, it was very anti-worker, as it is now, but the draft was made very much better in the Committee on Social Affairs. The opposition and the coalition did it together. This was done for weeks, during sitting-free weeks and, indeed, at the end of the day, this bill was quite approved. Mai Treia was the chairman of the commission. However, since the bill was for 'too', it was still not intended to be adopted and was put in a drawer. At that time, this bill was no longer a matter of concern. In the next composition, the draft was discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and then there were other stories. The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with this quickly; the problems were not studied or challenged so much. The law was adopted in spring 2008. However, it was preceded by negotiations with trade unions, the Confederation of Employers, the TALO and the Chamber of Commerce. I remember that at the time the unions challenged very few places. This was the time that the Social Democrats were in the government and should have challenged more things in this bill. There were all kinds of points on how a contract of employment could be terminated quickly and, in the case of complaints, people would not be reinstated, etc. However, there were two points where the trade unions agreed with the draft law on this employment contract. These were an increase in unemployment benefit to half of the minimum wage and an allowance is also paid to those who leave the job at their own request. This last point, as we know, was cancelled this spring, and now the increase in unemployment benefit is the same. Let us also remind ourselves that, if one day the agreement had been broken and glassed, the government was probably confident that one day we would postpone the increase in unemployment benefit to the minimum wage. And that's exactly what happened. Already in the summer of 2009, it was proposed to postpone this increase, although unemployment benefit was to rise to half the minimum wage in January 2010. It was postponed until January 2013. As you can see, it is now being done again, meaning that as great a rise as ever agreed will be cancelled. We can see that there will never be such a large increase in unemployment benefit to half the minimum wage. This allowance is only partly increased, although this bill that the unemployment benefit amounts to half the minimum wage was already in the Riigikogu and we thought it would really work this time. But at the last moment, perhaps two weeks ago, as you remember, a second decision was made. And, of course, it's very strange that a medical strike was made as a pretext. In order to meet the demands of strikers and increase the salaries of doctors, ambulances and resident doctors, the increase in unemployment benefit to half the minimum wage must be postponed and only partly increased. I would also remind you that, according to Katrin Rehemaa, Secretary General of the Medical Association, the Minister himself has said that the money to cover these demands comes from both the state budget and the health insurance fund. We have reserves at the Health Insurance Fund and could have taken that money from it, but something else was suggested as a pretext. And if the unemployment benefit now rises to EUR 101.5 per month instead of EUR 145, I will ask if the coalition knows exactly how much it will rise. For example, the representative of the IRL said the wrong number. He said that unemployment benefit would now rise to EUR 145. So it's all mash and cabbages. If you look closely, however, this money is far from going to raise doctors'wages. This money, which is being taken away, goes to compensation for infertility treatment, to a public health prevention strategy and to the inevitable assistance of uninsured persons. All of this, of course, is very much needed. However, to say that the lower increase in unemployment benefit is due to the requirements of the strike is, in any case, completely wrong. And I would like to remind you that there has never been so much desire to protect the unemployed, and there have been major cuts all along. In fact, money has always been lacking, and it is always being taken away from somewhere. The WHO and the OECD have said that you will not have enough money for health care; you will soon be in a completely empty state. In the case of cuts, we recall that dental care was taken away, that the VAT on medical medicine was increased and that care treatment was made more expensive. Just today, there was a press release that, in the last few years, people's own participation in healthcare has increased a great deal. Now, with the same speed, the visit fee and the bed-day fee were still raised to cover the doctor's strike. It's all been a long line of lies. In any case, it goes down in history as a very bad message that the increase in the pay of doctors is compensated for by the poorest and the poorest, or unemployed. I think that's a really bad message. Of course, I cannot support such a bill, nor can I support the increase in the visit fee and the bed pay that was mentioned here earlier today under this same point and in the money needed for doctors to raise their wages. I'm against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U801	Thank you. There's no more calls. Peter Võsa, please respond more quickly! I could now take the example of your groupmate and your other vice-chairman, Jüri Ratas, who stopped giving the floor to a person during the next procedure. But all right, Peter Võsa, please come to the remote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U802	Mr President, I really thank you for this merciful opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, This is once again one such bill, where the coalition politicians of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party are convinced of the need. All the remaining drafts will be quite brutally rejected during the debate, the social partners will not be involved in the debate, or, if they are involved, they will be mercilessly turned out in a very short time. Finally, it is simply informed what the decision was, and practically so it will remain. I get the impression that if anything is discussed, there are two debaters: parties, or the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, and the Reform Party, are losing their ratings. The opinion of other political parties or other thinking politicians will not be asked, and all amendments will be voted down, and already in committee, and as we have heard, as a package. I believe that when the bill is finally done, it will be about as forceful as the children of Genghis Khan have done. And when they come here to protect it, their ideas will be praised to heaven, whether they are deceived and lied to to push them through. But here's the thing. Yes, it is possible to deceive people, even on a few consecutive occasions, but not to infinity. This must be taken into account by every party and politician. Even Margus Tsahkna has to take that into account. If the number and percentage of income in the speeches that have been made here are increasing, unemployment is falling, the treasury is filling up and the economic environment is improving, then I would like to ask: why is it not seen driving along Estonia? But because there have been promises made during the discussion of this bill that have not been kept. As far as I know, it's very easy to call it lying in Estonian. That is exactly the way the current policy is going to work, and there are no longer social partners or word-keeping gentlemen in suits. But what do we do now? How do I vote? What decision to make? Of course, the mind says that there should be a vote against, because such conduct is not suitable for anything. Why don't we vote in favour? But that would mean taking on that burden, just like tolerating the road roller policy, lying and arrogance. However, if this bill is not supported, the unemployed will lose the money. So what do we do? This is a very serious problem, I do not know whether to vote in favour or against. It's probably gonna take a pretty long time to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U803	Thank you very much. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U804	Madam President! By following my colleague Peter Võsa's last reply, the Centre Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of this bill and, after that, to think about how to fulfil its promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U805	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Amendment 1 Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U806	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U807	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U808	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 52 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 2: Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U809	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U810	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U811	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U812	No, I don't want a word.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U813	Amendment 3 Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U814	Three minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U815	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this three-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U816	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 7), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 51 votes to seven, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 4. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U817	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this three-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U818	Three minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U819	Ladies and gentlemen, In the meantime, December 8th, Saturday. The three-minute break taken by the Centre Party Group has also ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 4 by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 5 Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U820	Thank you. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on and we are celebrating a new day with a two-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U821	Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U822	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 5 by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 6 Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U823	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U824	Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U825	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 7. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U826	Thank you. I am asking for this motion to be voted on, and even though everyone is demanding a ten-minute break, I am staying with my two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U827	Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U828	I shall put to the vote Amendment 7 by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Steering Committee proposes not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 8. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U829	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U830	Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U831	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 8, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 5 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 9. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U832	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U833	Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U834	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 9, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 10. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U835	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U836	Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U837	I shall put to the vote Amendment 10 by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 11. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U838	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted on without a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U839	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 11, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all 11 amendments. Since the Riigikogu Board has received the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the bill 320, we must vote on this proposal. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U840	I ask for three minutes of intermission before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U841	Three minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-07_U842	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of bill 320. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Second reading of bill 320 is complete.
