ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable guests! Good morning. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 11th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good Riigikogu! Five members of the Alliance of Democrats, Deniss Borodichi, Lembit Kaljuveel, Inara Luis, Kalle Laanet and Rainer Vakra, have a question for Mr Andrus Ansip. This is the result of last week's Saaremaa Voice article, in which, in short, it was written that commands and taxes would keep coming up. As such, you can sum up the national anomaly formulated by the voice of the islands in the newspaper. For some time there is a situation in Estonia where different inspectors and inspectors carry out random checks on their working time in companies, which is already paid by the state. This activity will subsequently be invoiced to the operators on the basis of the hourly fee of the controller. In the above-mentioned article, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Estonian Rural Tourism Signe Sarah Arro said that this is not just one particular company, but the problem is much more general. This has been confirmed by the managers of the various service and catering establishments, who say that paying unscheduled checks to inspectors is a day-to-day activity. Consequently, we have four questions. Does the government consider it appropriate to pay for the costs of random checks carried out by national inspectors and inspectors by the operator? Does this practice not create an additional risk of corruption and unequal treatment for a company that is more frequently controlled than others? Has the budget already included revenue from such random checks? Is it intended to compensate the company retroactively for the costs incurred in carrying out the justified control activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. By doing so, we will amend the paragraph which sets the rate of excise duty on electricity. We propose that, as from 1 July 2013, the excise duty added to electricity in Estonia be reduced to the minimum rate of the European Union, i.e. one euro per megawatt-hour. This means that the electricity excise would be reduced four and a half times. Since this bill is being handed over to this Riigikogu for the third time, I am talking a little bit about history. For the first time, we handed over this draft in May 2011. Then it was voted down. Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts came at the time when the large companies had just moved to the open electricity market, before the Riigikogu and asked us what gives us the right at all to say that the price of electricity is beginning to rise for households and small and medium-sized enterprises after the opening of the electricity market. He said he wasn't even sure that the price of electricity was gonna go up. The second time, we handed this bill over in May of this year. It was then voted down on the pretext that Juhan Parts would come up with a reduction in renewable energy charges. There was no plan at the time, but today we know that this reduction in renewable energy charges will have half the effect of lowering the electricity excise duty, and that is not enough. Now, by handing over this bill, we know that by the time the bill has passed the round of government coordination and our committee, people already have their electricity bills and those first two arguments are no longer a criminal. The third argument, i.e. that we are making tax reductions in the middle of the financial year, could probably be discussed as the draft would enter into force on 1 July 2013. That is why we have also identified a clear source of cover. Lowering half a year's electricity excise would cost 12 million euros. We have the Estonian Tax and Customs Board's calculations available, which show the size of the tax hole in Estonia, i.e. 422 million euros a year. There are three measures proposed by the Tax Administration to better collect the tax. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U5	Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Heili Tõnisson, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending basic school and upper secondary school and related other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, when dealing with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U7	Good fellows! On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Bureau will decide on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, member of the Riigikogu, was registered by the Riigikogu Board as a member of the Estonian Reform Party. The Management Board of the Riigikogu approved Tiina Lokk-Tramberg as a member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. The faction of the Estonian Centre Party withdrew draft 218 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Establishment of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to determine the circumstances relating to the granting of temporary residence permits to foreigners'. The President of the Riigikogu forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to the Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Good fellows! We're conducting a presence check. 73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 28.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U8	Let's start working on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of Bill 319 of the Law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No requests, no negotiations. So let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put Bill 319 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 73 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Thus, the draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U9	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's resolution on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from the Gambling Tax, submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Inara Luigas, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U10	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. According to § 7 (4) of the Gambling Tax Act, the Council of the Riigikogu is formed from the Gambling Tax. The Council includes six members of the Riigikogu, one representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, one representative of the Ministry of Culture and one representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Minister of Social Affairs proposed to the Committee on Monetary Affairs an amendment to the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. For this reason, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed s. November 21st, the draft decision of the Riigikogu to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from the Gambling Tax. This removes Riho Rahuoja from the award of grants from the gambling tax and appoints Chancellor Marelle Erlenheim as the new representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for tabling amendments. The procedural decisions were as follows: At its meeting on 3 December, the Committee on Finance decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 13 December 2012 and put to the final vote. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U11	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Chancellor Marelle Erlenheim of the Ministry of Social Affairs is on sick leave for a long time and is currently replaced by Tiiu Aro. Will anyone in the Gambling Tax Board replace him? Any word on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U13	Thank you for your question. The Commission did not discuss who was on the sick leave at work. A letter from the Minister of Social Affairs came to the Commission. I will read it to you: 'Please exclude Riho Rahuoja, representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, from the membership of the Council for the award of benefits from gambling tax. The new representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the Council is Chancellor Marelle Erlenheim. " We hope that Mrs Marelle will soon be cured and will take up her duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U14	Thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We are going to examine the amendments to the draft decision 327. No amendments to the draft have been received. The position of the lead committee is also to hold a final vote today. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I shall put to the vote the draft decision 327. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu were in favour, there were no respondents or abstentions. The appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for the award of grants from the Gambling Tax decision submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs has therefore been adopted as a 327 decision. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U15	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the debate on the crucial state issue 'The situation of own care, its impact on the economy and the moral environment', initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Good fellows! Let me also briefly present the procedure for this debate before the debate begins. Due to § 153 of our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu appointed the next procedure for discussing a matter of major importance on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party. First, the lecture of the docent of the University of Tartu, Jüri Kõre, will be up to 20 minutes, then the questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. After that, Tiina Kangro's presentation will be up to 20 minutes and questions-answers will be up to 20 minutes. Then the presentation by Helmen Küti, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group, will be up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to all rapporteurs on this agenda item. Then there will be negotiations, where all the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and the representatives of the committees can make speeches. At the request of the Social Democratic Party Group, I also propose to the Riigikogu that the representatives of the political groups speak first. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The initiators have also proposed to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us look at this, good colleagues, in the course of our work, when this need arises, we will also carry out this vote. Let us begin the processing of this item. I would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Jüri Kõre!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members and guests of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the opportunity to perform in front of you. I'll get right to the point. I am pleased that the Riigikogu sees this problem because it is a 'hidden' issue. Those who are in care at home, as well as those who care for these people, are not of daily interest and attention. At the same time, their role in Estonian welfare as a whole is extremely important. Why? For statistical reasons, because there are 17,000 people in Estonia to care for others. This is the largest group in the care we treat as a recipient of services. Why is this subject still important? No doubt every approach has its weaknesses and strengths. By participating in and directing processes, however, weaknesses can be softened or mitigated and strengths strengthened. The next point on the subject of informal care is that, in fact, it is only one part of the system that municipalities manage by assigning carers and controlling their activities. It is a formalised and visible system in which the parties are known and written. In addition to this, there is a completely non-formal system in which maintenance relationships have not been recorded or stipulated in any way, no carer's allowance is paid. These are people-to-people agreements. And lastly, the essence is maintenance, including family care, is a shared responsibility. There is no 100% responsibility for one person, such as a formal guardian, but different parties must cooperate. Social welfare is often criticised in such a very simple form that soon we will have half the elderly disabled and the other half will be carers of the disabled, and this system will be uncontrolled. Here's a line of numbers. The first figures show the dynamics of the number of people with severe and deep disabilities. These are those who, in principle, would be entitled to a guardian. This system is managed by care and medicine. Further decisions are mainly based on a medical diagnosis, but the final decision on disability is indeed made by the welfare system of the Social Insurance Institution. The care provider system is fully managed by social welfare. This is the task of local governments. If we look at the dynamics of the numbers of people and carers in care, they will decrease. I dare say that this system is better controlled and operated than the first one. I ask to be a little more modest sometimes when it comes to the criticism of social welfare. Not always, but in many cases, this system can manage its activities. My claim that we do not know the whole thing is based on a study commissioned by Tallinn City Government and the University of Tartu in 2009. The subject of the study was people of working age with disabilities, i.e. only one part of home care. Let's first look at the first row and the percentage is 18.2%. These are people who are in formal care, to whom the Tallinn City Government has appointed a home care provider. 2nd row, 2.6%. These are the professional guardians of the municipality, whose work is also paid by the local government. On the next lines there is care where the private sector, based on people-to-people relationships, is notionally behind. 3.2% of the maintenance for which the fee is paid, but is paid by the recipient. 10.7% is an informal guardian, neighbour or relative (anyone who is not part of a formalised system) with whom there is no contract and no remuneration. We see that about two thirds of the system is formalised and we know it well or badly and one third is not formalised. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that, in fact, we do have the responsibility of society and people for the elderly and people with disabilities entirely. And if it is not possible to formalise things or to fund the provision of this service from third sources, it will be done itself. We could be optimistic about our society and its coherence, because it is completely there and it is working. Here's a bit of an older picture. These are the conclusions of the final thesis of a social worker in one municipality. It assessed two years after the obligation to appoint a carer and to pay the carer's allowance was transferred to the local authority, which are the problems from the point of view of the three parties that are inside: first the disabled person or the carer, then the carer and the local government. Today, of course, things have moved on, the picture has become more diverse and, ultimately, better, but some of the concerns are still unresolved. For example, the lack of information in the ministry is an eternal problem and can never be solved 100%, or the need for information for all. But that doesn't mean we don't have to develop the system all the time, grow and add new layers. In many cases, carers are elderly. This is a typical situation of 90 years of age and 70 years of age as guardian. This 70-year-old, however, in many cases does not use modern information channels, Internet-based information is not available, etc. But from the point of view of the care provider, the most important problem is that his daily needs are satisfied, but he is still relatively stuck in his home, he is separated from society. In this sense, the picture is often not much better than the situation when a person lives in a nursing home. In the case of clients in nursing homes, the same problem, in other words, is not sufficiently developed in relation to society, i.e. support services, which should also be organised by the local government. This affects the general condition of people, but in fact also the quality of life and the way in which they live. Training, information, knowledge etc. is very important for non-formal carers or carers. The same 70-year-old carer may not have had any contact with these problems in his life. Men are in a particularly difficult position. Unfortunately, care has a gender aspect. Men have not dealt very much with children, and they have never been in contact with the care of any other elderly person before, and then have to deal with the problems of their spouse. It's a relatively difficult situation. Professional ergonomics training is very important here. This is done, but its quality is often under weak control. In other words, what you should be able to do and what you are allowed to do does not reach people. The same ergonomics training not only concerns the cared-for layer, but the need for it is very broad. This is needed by a great many people working in the care sector, as well as by medical people. For example, if we are still talking about welfare services, the personal assistant service needs exactly the same training. The lack of leave is a very critical issue for carers. This is a controversial situation: on the one hand, carers are tired, but on the other, they do not want to take such a step in many cases to give their family member to a care establishment for a shorter or longer period. This is a very difficult situation where a third party, or a social worker, must contribute to a rational decision. As far as local authorities are concerned, the number of problems here is very wide. Since this attitude, which is political in style, that once we have appointed a carer, the problems have been solved and we do not need to deal with these people's concerns actively and every day, up to the money, which, in some of the studies, reveals in an interesting way that, according to social workers, money is not a problem when it comes to an abstract question that hinders the development of care, although in fact, this problem does exist on a daily basis. The general context in which care is organised is family and family law. For a very long time, we have had the same care obligations in the family law. With our neighbours, the situation has been modernised, the responsibility of the family and the community is more shared than in Estonia. On the one hand, we must recognise that the use of family members in informal care is inevitable and practical in our circumstances, on the other hand, we should change our approach. I have conditionally called it a coercive model, which does not sound very good, but the essence of the law is the move towards a cooperation model, i.e. the active participation and co-operation of a larger number of parties. I also believe that we must not give up the so-called private responsibility, the responsibility of the individual, in cooperation with the various parties involved. When discussions are taking place on private insurance and its extension, sometimes, in my understanding, the focus is on the wrong things. Usually, the idea of bringing money from private insurance goes to medicine. It seems to me that this is not an effective way, because we cannot bring enough money to medicine through private insurance to make a significant change in the system. However, we could bring money to welfare through the thought-out of care insurance and, if the result of this reflection is a viable system, through its introduction. On the one hand, we must take into account that during this period, when we have operated a forced maintenance model, the economy has changed and its wishes have changed with regard to one of the most important economic factors, the labour force. A family with one employee is replaced by a family with two employees. At the same time, service providers are highly differentiated due to different positions in the economy and different wages. Just as society has a conditional wealthier and poorer citizens, we also have wealthier and poorer care units. When it comes to care for the poor and caring for the poor, the problem is to ensure a modern quality of life, but also, in substance, to ensure that it is maintained. The municipality must control the quality of maintenance. But it is very difficult for him to impose requirements when a caring household has a very low income because, in fact, this resource, which is at their disposal and added by the state, does not always provide high-quality care. On the other hand, we must consider that the family has changed. The level of education of women has risen very quickly, but it affects the attitude they want to do and what they do not want to do. The interest of women and the desire to be responsible for care is reduced. Changes in marriages, common-law relationships, or weaker partnerships, affect this situation. The migration of young people of working age also reduces the number of potential carers, as it is very difficult to do this from a distance. Also, values have changed, which is, of course, a very complex and long-lasting subject. We should develop, move towards this approach, which focuses on the concept of community care. This is the approach that is at the heart of Europe today. The so-called second wave of exits from the institutions has begun in Europe. The first wave was in the 1970's, when people with special psychiatric needs, in particular, were brought out of care institutions to care for the community. Efforts are now being made to send people home from "normal care homes" and to ensure their livelihood through services provided at home. Family care is part of it, one of the options of community care. With this picture, I will try to prove to you that local authorities are responsible for the work they do. Here you can see the dynamics of different services, how the number of customers has changed. The two lower figures show that the lowest number of users of these services is more expensive. These are people in nursing homes in the city of Tartu, on the one hand, and recipients of home care services funded by the city, on the other. The middle line shows the users of the day centre service. This is a significantly cheaper service than the previous two. It is true that the day care centre, as a care establishment, needs better reflection. Today, it is primarily an institution that binds people to society. This is a site where various events can be held: meetings, cultural events, etc. The day centre has less direct care functions. Whether he should have more of these welfare functions or how much exactly, I am not going to discuss with you right now. The day care center is not a hundred percent care facility and it doesn't have to be, but the question is, could it have more maintenance functions? The last line, the highest line, shows the number of people in informal care. As you can see, in the city of Tartu their number has fallen, which is in line with the general trend. We are dealing with this resource that the state is giving to us. The resource comes from the state budget and we distribute it and dispose of it responsibly. What are the opportunities at local government level? It is an eternal opportunity to provide information, to introduce rights and opportunities, and to provide initial training for informal carers. It is true that there is no point in any municipality dealing with this issue separately, there could be a more general system. Even if someone has a training permit, as I said earlier, it does not guarantee a satisfactory outcome for the recipients of the service. This training must be better controlled. Secondly, we have a generation of informal carers who have gained practical experience in caring for their family members and who generally know how this thing works. In other countries, they are used as supporters, i.e. they help new people with caring responsibilities get into the subject. They're supporters and trainers. They are called in different ways, but basically it is the service they offer, the experience counseling. The third moment is better coupling the whole system. Why, again, is the efforts of one local government not always enough? Because one local government may not have a system as a whole. There may be links: one has a day centre, one has a nursing home, one has another has an institution. All of these levels have their own competence. We do not always consider care to be the most appropriate solution. In fact, however, the nursing home has the highest and most high-quality competence, as it deals with care techniques, social issues, medical issues, etc. As a result, we should not underestimate the nursing home as a system leader. I guess I'm just gonna have to get my story together, huh?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U17	How many more minutes do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U18	One minute. The opportunities of the local government are entirely present. Firstly, on a conceptual level, we should recognise that care and assistance needs are different and that informal care is sometimes not enough to ensure modern quality of life. In many cases, that is enough, but not in all cases. In other words, personal care is not the "peak" or "end" of care, but often requires higher and more complex layers. Training in the use of maintenance and assistance equipment facilitating maintenance in practice. We have centres for the rental and sale of disabled equipment, where there are great catalogs. Basically, there's everything you need. However, the ability to use these instruments in practice is poor. I underestimated myself. Can I have another minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U19	Of course you can.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U20	In some countries, there are national organisations that bring together millions of people, such as England. They perform precisely that part of the information exchange, practical training and the network of supporters. We have such an organization emerging in the form of individual non-profit organisations, but the network has not developed. People in wheelchairs face many legal and economic obstacles to adapting their living space, getting out of the house, etc. It has been formally placed on the shoulders of local governments, but it is often beyond their reach. There's some kind of cooperation here. Many systems that are now local are actually effective nationwide. We also need to take into account the effectiveness of the systems in terms of welfare, not the positive moment that arises from the proximity and decentralisation of the client. For example, the disabled taxi service and the distress call system service are developed in a large number of countries where municipalities are strong as municipal services. In Finland, for example, a large part of the care responsibility lies with the municipality and the service of the disabled is a regional task, i.e. the municipality. These are the very minimal things that we can do to develop the system without breaking it, damaging it, and radically reorganizing it. Thank you for your benevolent attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U21	I thank you for your very good presentation. We have some questions for you too. Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U22	Thank you. Allow me to begin by thanking you for a very meaningful report. I'd like to hear more of your thoughts. One of the biggest problems, in my opinion, is the very uneven availability of services, as well as quality. The Ministry of Social Affairs has long sought to describe the minimum standard of various services within the framework of the Act, but this bill has not reached the Riigikogu because the local governments have not been able to find a common language. You are also from a local government background. What are your suggestions so that this minimum standard can still be established at the level of the law, so that those in need know what they are entitled to expect?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U23	The answer is, on the one hand, simple but, on the other hand, very difficult to provide certainty to both parties, both to the person who needs the service or to the person who has the right to the service, and to the service provider, the local authority, that the service can be provided, i.e. there is a resource, which is well-simply put, the money. This does not always mean that local authorities need to be given more money. But these pretty good analyses that we are currently doing to assess the capacity of the local authorities must go to the next level. When analysing welfare at local government level, it must be seen whether or not money is available in essence for the provision of a minimum quantity of services and how the use of funds in the local government budget has spread between different sectors. I would not say that the work done by the Ministry of Social Affairs in describing the minimum standard has been useless. The city of Tartu, the conditions of which I know relatively well, also basically uses the definitions that the Ministry has written down when describing its services.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U24	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U25	Thank you, good manager. I would also like to thank you for this presentation with a good practical view. Inheritance care is very much directed at family orientation, care for or cared for by their loved ones. In itself, there is, on the one hand, the problem of the indirect loss of revenue for the State. If the caretaker went to work, he might make a lot of money for the state. However, the other side is that the guardian will receive a very small pension in the future, because the EUR 19 or EUR 25 allowance will not give him an income. What solutions do you see here as a social scientist to come out of this circle?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U26	In fact, the problem is that care has a wider impact on the future situation of the service provider. It's not just about the caretakers. I have here given an example of a personal assistant service that the providers of this service need the same training as the carers. Also, personal assistant service providers often work in such a way that their working time is calculated on an hourly basis and does not always provide a minimum wage. In other words, they also do not have social security guarantees, pension guarantees, etc. With regard to informal care, this system guarantees that people who do not have other activities have a basic place of work, i.e. they work on a minimum wage basis. They are guaranteed this minimum, they are not completely uninsured, rather it is about the weight of pension points and the pension system. The minimum level of insurance provides very small guarantees in the future. It would be easy to say that we will increase these guarantees. After all, the issue is that there is, in fact, a huge gap between direct guarantees, carers' remuneration and pension guarantees. Caregivers' fees are in themselves very low, i.e. these activities are assessed very low. But we can't take pension insurance exponentially higher. These things should be balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U27	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U28	Thank you. Good waitress, I also thank you for this very thorough and good presentation you gave us. It must be said that this is a very painful issue in society, whether it is the low salaries of nursing staff or the lack of care facilities in some Estonian counties. I myself have been in close contact with someone very close to me about welfare problems. I've heard people say that they can't bring their carers to a nursing home for the simple reason that they don't have the money. Nor do we know that in the face of certain economic difficulties, a person will be removed from a nursing home. What role do you think society and the state could play so that this problem can be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U29	I do not think that we, as a whole, are abandoning the decentralised care model that we currently have. It still has its very big advantages. However, as Mr Maripuu pointed out, we must harmonise this practice. We need to create mechanisms that harmonise this activity. In some cases, it requires tougher demands on individual municipalities, in some cases more resources, etc. And the same model of shared responsibility I mentioned earlier should be the basis of everything. It sounds really complicated or bad, because shared responsibility in some ways means nobody's responsibility. It's always good to have one person in charge. But we have built up our welfare as a whole in such a way that we have a certain responsibility for the state, the municipalities and the family. And more and more we are also saying that the person's own responsibility should be greater. I proposed an increase in one person's own liability for care insurance earlier. I agree with you that these cases are what you mentioned, i.e. the family members take a person from a nursing home because they cannot pay. Unfortunately, these are still quite understandable cases, as there are also cases where the local authority stops financing its own service. In some cases, local authorities are responsible for paying this amount. As I said, there are cases like this. As long as the individual is unable to pay for all the maintenance costs necessary for the institution to provide the service, the shared responsibility shall remain in place. However, local authorities sometimes treat the ownership of family members in a flexible way. They support specific families or individuals to varying degrees. The municipality's budget covers the entire difference between the person's pension and the cost of the place of the nursing home, or it is partially covered in some small part of the missing section. Not all municipalities are able to implement this flexible behaviour for any reason. But that mindset is spreading and evolving.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U30	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U31	Dear waitress, I'm sorry, I'm not very familiar with the legal background of this problem. When we talk about home care, I wonder whether and if so, when the local government will be obliged to provide such a service. Or does it depend on the good will of the municipality? And according to which tariffs are set, how much will it pay for this service?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U32	With the tariff it is easy to use, it is a cost-based service. In other words, if there is an optimal number of carers, this service is cheaper for the municipality. And if there is a small municipality with few people in home care, then the price is also higher. In principle, this is the same family member's mutual maintenance obligation. If a person in need of care lives in a family, he or she is supported by family members. If the family does not live with the person in need of care but is living in the same city or nearby, the municipality considers that the family is able to fulfil its obligation and the service paid by the municipality is not provided. In this case, it is possible to purchase the service either from the same municipal service provider, from the local authority, or from private structures. I certainly know that in Tallinn and Tartu, for example, private persons offer home care services. But it is not very widespread because the price is too high for people. For example, the Tartu City Agency, the day centre Kalda would be able to provide this service somewhat cheaper than a private person, but there is a question of competition with the private sphere. How moral is it to compete with the private sphere at a cheaper price? At the same time, it would extend the number of recipients of the service and the number of people involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U33	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U34	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for a very good overview and good answers. I have a slightly broader question. Since you are also in Tartu with the decisions of executive power, you can certainly answer. If we look at the story of the so-called growth of our children with disabilities or special needs, we have done quite well. We have created different kindergarten forms for them and we have a special-level school system. I dare say that our specialized teachers are very professionally educated. We're finally gonna make it to an extra year. However, when a young person turns 17 to 18, nothing really follows, except two youth homes. What is your proposal to the Riigikogu? How are we supposed to go from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U35	I believe that sooner or later the Riigikogu must begin to amend and further develop the Social Welfare Act. This is the right place to review the list of such services. I'm adjusting the picture you've presented. In fact, however, apart from special kindergarten and special needs, we also have school or class services. We know about Camphill village in Raplamaa and Maarja village in Põlva County. The group of the parents of the Maarja school is currently developing the project in the municipality of Haaslava near Tartu. This should be the next, third village. They are very much hoping for cooperation with both the local authorities and the state. For example, there is no house in the village of Mary that is fully built with the resources of the Estonian state, but there is an Estonian house built with the resources of Estonian private persons. And in Tartu, there is a support centre next to the same Maarja school, where people who have grown out of school attend. After all, we have a school system designed so that children with different degrees of disability also have a place in the school. The school system and educational organisation have been the focus of society for a long time and more, and things have been taken to a whole, where children with special needs also have a place. We need to take social welfare equally seriously, and the approach should also be the same in order for these children to have a place there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U36	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U37	Thank you. I'll continue the discussion you had with Maret Maripuu. It would be easier to bring care services to the same level if there was enough money. Can you tell by heart how much of the costs are paid by the public sector, for example, in Estonia and also in our neighbours, and how much is the part that can be called own contribution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U38	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U39	I don't get those numbers so suddenly. I'm not gonna speculate here, think and waste time. Why don't I look up these figures in some paperwork and discuss it in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U40	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, thank you for your meaningful presentation. I haven't dealt with it on a daily basis, but I want to ask. You had one keyword for high quality care. Your report and all the answers to the questions contain one idea: if there is money, care is of high quality. I would like to ask on the substance side: can you briefly summarise the content of high-quality care without touching the financial aspect?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U41	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U42	Quality care must ensure the highest possible quality of life for the person, taking into account his or her health and other factors. The criterion of quality is not directly a service. Only part of the way a person lives depends on the service. However, it must be possible to guarantee maximum quality of life, depending on various factors. I don't really agree with you. My colleague Maripuu helped me get on the subject of this quality and I agree with him on standards: standards also include a quality element. I recognise that in welfare, measuring and evaluating quality is a very difficult issue, and that is why I did not specifically address it on any slide. It would have taken me a lot of time because it's difficult to explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U43	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. Your report on one of the last slides had activities we should do. There was a sentence that it was necessary to support the establishment of a national support structure for informal care, and in brackets there was a'similar structure to the House of People with Disabilities'. Are you talking about an additional structure? Or is the House of People with Disabilities a structure that should be more systematic and supported so that it can move forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U44	Yeah, my opinion is the same as your last statement. I have proposed to the chairwoman of the House of People with Disabilities to provide a place for this organisation when it emerges or is developed nationwide. But to him, the idea was initially a stranger, because in other parts of the world, representative organizations are separate. In fact, it is artificial to separate carers from carers. Members of the Chamber through their disability and disability-based non-profit organisations are caring for. Customers are members of the Chamber and customers should then be separate. Of course, the attendant and the recipient of the service are a bit like opposite positions, the other on the other side of the barricade. But in the sense of substance, the problems that some people encounter and that others solve are the same. In my understanding, and also by the fact that we have to organise our society in a very rational way, the national support structure would be the right place under the House of Disabled People. But I carefully wrote it down because there is no clear single position in the House itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U45	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In the first half of the 1990s, the cost of a general type of care facility was paid from three sources: the needy and/or its legal guardians, local government and state. Since this person had paid taxes to the state and local government all his life, this division of responsibility seemed fair. To date, the state is relieved of this responsibility. How do you think we should restore the old system? Would that be fairer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U47	In fact, the state is responsible for one part of the care needs. These are people with special psychic needs. The country is not completely disengaged; it has simply assumed responsibility for one sector on the principle of rationality. Why the principle of rationality? It is a more expensive service financed by the state and a more complex service. There are also higher quality service providers, higher costs, higher training capacity, etc. So I wouldn't say the country has moved away. If we fail to ensure the'same attitude' towards customers and the same functioning of local governments with some standards and such, then I do not know how we will impose this funding on the municipalities mechanically. It is, of course, the law of the legislator if there are no other solutions. We have tried to develop cooperation with municipalities in the form of dialogue, but they rejected the proposal to introduce standards into the law. It was rejected by local government leaders, while local government social workers say it is necessary and do it. We are moving forward initially in the form of cooperation and dialogue, but if this does not work, we will go to more resolute solutions, until then, as proposed, there will be no other way than nationalisation of welfare institutions. Nationalisation in itself does not guarantee the same quality in the first stage because the infrastructure is different, the service providers, the employees are different and the mentalities are different. Let us look at the dynamics that have taken place in the attitude of service providers. From the 1980s to the 2000s, people have changed. They are still relatively low-paid workers, but the mentality has significantly improved and thus also the quality of service provision. It wasn't a very specific answer to your question, I'm sorry, but that was my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U48	Mr Kõre, thank you for your presentation and your answers. I now ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu speech chair Tiina Kangro! I'm sorry, I'm taking the manager's break for 40 seconds! The break taken by the manager is over. Good waitress, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U49	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is my great honor to be invited here today to make this report. I feel like I've been waiting a long time for this opportunity. I could have long night sessions on this subject if there were enough audiences, but also parties with whom we could do something about it, so that Estonia would do better in the future. Listening to the previous presentation and discussions, I had a comment. It's not really just about maintenance. I invite you all, if you're thinking along, to understand that the word 'inheritor' tells us about care, but maintenance is only one small segment in this game. Actually, we're talking about the functioning of society, we're talking about people. And the carers are not only carers, but they are a strategically very important link in the way our society functions, because there are many people. When I published this article 14 months ago, which is now on the wall, it caused me a great surprise in society. For me, it was not surprising, as it was, I think, for many tens of thousands of people whose daily life was described both in this article and in some of the following articles on this very subject. Only that their everyday, normal life suddenly came upon black white paper, and so it all seemed, of course, even more terrible than reality. We then wondered whether there were people in our society at our side. And how is it possible that no one has noticed that society is not familiar with it? I wanted to show you a little piece of film today that would have been eloquent to open up this subject, but it turns out there's no sound on the video in this room. Since it is said that one picture is worth more than a thousand words, I did make such a little story with pictures to brief you about who these perceptive guardians are. We've been telling stories, opening their backgrounds and raising problems every week for many years. For example, in this picture are Anne and Peter. Peter's older sister's there too. Peter is 15 years old and Anne is an economic cybernetic with the education of the University of Tartu. Because of the son's need for care, Anne stayed home because they live in a small region of Central Estonia and there was no other solution. No one knows why Peter and his wife went like this, and the birth was on time, and the pregnancy went without problems. Yet, the child had seizures, he was retarded, and when he was six, things got pretty bad. Peter can't move, I don't think he can see, and he needs to be fed with a probe right into his stomach. To avoid choking, his airways must be constantly aspirated. He's going to have a seizure at night, and he needs urgent medical attention. Peter has a rehabilitation plan, but due to such severe disabilities he has not been able to get any services or help to the corner of Estonia, even though he is in Central Estonia. Peter does not receive school education because the family lives in a small place and there is no transport. Anne's carer allowance is 19 euros. You could read the story of Olga and Irina in a magazine I shared with you yesterday. Maybe you've had time to look inside. This entire magazine number is dedicated to today's event. It contains additional materials in case you have those who want to deepen and think about it. Irina was handed Olga out of the hospital a year and a half ago in her vegetative state. Nobody knows if he can hear and see what he's feeling, he can't move. Olga's been sleeping for a year and a half for ten minutes. That's the maximum. To get Irina out of bed in the morning to avoid beds, we need to wait for the neighbor. Luckily, the neighbor comes every day. Eve and Triinu's story we've been watching on "Bithe Point" shows and before that for several years with the "Bithe Point" team. The tripod's brain was destroyed because obstetrics were late, even though the mother was in the hospital at the right time. You all probably know the trial that's still going on. Triinu literally needed maintenance at any moment. Father left the family to earn money abroad because the needs of such a child are so great that one person does not cover the needs of such a family under our circumstances. Our social assistance systems do not provide solutions for difficult cases. We've got a little fingering for everybody. Giving up care would have meant going out to this family at EUR 600.1000 per month, which was unthinkable. There is, of course, another possibility for such parents. They will be able to ask through the court for the waiver of custody. If the court accepts this, the child will become State-owned and can go to an orphanage at the expense of the state. In the fourth year, Eve began to shudder because she had been completely sleepless, overstressed, stressed, and terribly worried all those years. Suddenly, his body began to break from all places. Eve got the chance to go to the hospital, and she, along with the municipality, found a short-term guardian who agreed to see her child. However, Evel had to be discontinued because of the child's illness in a foreign person and his condition became critical. Eve had to come home from the hospital and stop the treatment. Eventually, however, Triinu received 24 - hour care from the city and the helpers, and Eve was able to go to a psychoneurology hospital. Six months later, Triinu left us before his sixth birthday. It's gonna be a year soon. Eve is still taking her first steps with the help of the unemployment fund services. He used to be a middle-level specialist, and now suddenly he was no one. His life had been overwhelmed by a tsunami. He's trying to learn to walk again. Let's look at some money now. Take, for example, the same Anne who became Peter's guardian when she was 37. We asked the pension board to do the calculations. They are, of course, not very detailed, but still eloquent. We see that if Anne continues to work as a guardian until retirement age, she will lose more than half of her pension. There are more of these columns in the magazine, made for several people, they can be compared. Here's Anne's minus and state's minus. We summed up how much Anne will lose in her pension if she lives within the average life span of Estonia, and how much she will lose if she stays away from the employment market at 37 years of age. We also looked at how much the state is going to miss taxes and how much the state is spending on Anne to keep her soul tied to her by means of caring allowance and so-called social contributions, which gives her retirement. We learn from these schematic calculations that one of the perceptive guardians actually amounts to nearly EUR 1 million. However, if there are 10,000 of these Annes, the cost of the Estonian state will be 10 billion. But there's really 2,000, maybe 30,000 of them. You should draw a third column on this diagram, but I don't know how big it is. What is the real contribution of an economic cybernetist, another specialist, a skilled worker or just a person to the development of the country? What is the cost of family breakdown, unborn children, communication with the community, or failure to do so? I don't know. Not all carers are excluded from the labour market. We've been watching Mare and Riina's lives for a couple of years. Mare works in the kindergarten kitchen. Riina is a 32-year-old woman with Down Syndrome who has a cocabi diploma from a vocational education centre that she received 16 years ago when she completed a simplified curriculum. After a very good grade, however, he has not worked a day. Mare and Riina live in a small place on the Cross in Läänemaa where there is no job. Riina's home alone, playing with paper dolls and pretending she's head of the fashion house, it's her favorite activity. However, if something happens at home, a strange situation arises, he jumps into bed under a blanket and calls his mother on a cell phone. Then mom's gonna have to run home from work fast and figure this out. Marel has a problem with what happens when he can't make it at one point because his retirement is approaching or when he's gone. So what about Riina? A year ago, we contacted AS Hoolekandeteenused, a team for the 'Pute Point' programme, to whom the Ministry of Social Affairs has given the task of providing special care services to these people. We were told, at the beginning, that what is the question of all the services and why Riina has not come to get the service? It has taken a little more than a year, and we have now come to the conclusion that Riina has a rehabilitation plan. He has also been told that as a child living at home, it will probably take him a few decades to get the service. Or we could take the story of Maire and Reinu, to which I also referred in my article 'Juhtmega on the Wall'. Reinu suffered a stroke when he was 51 and is no longer independent. Maire is a school teacher. If he continued to work, his disability pension could hardly pay a mortgage. However, a man should be placed in a nursing home that costs 600 euros a month. Maire makes 500 euros. It is not possible to support him in small towns, at least in the coming years he was not told that way. Maire went to the lawyer's house for advice on what to do, how to live. The only thing the lawyer could say was that she'd unilaterally file for a divorce. In three years' time, he will be relieved of the maintenance load and the man will be treated at the expense of the state. In 1993, the United Nations adopted standard rules on equal opportunities for people with disabilities. This was the first common document on human rights for people with disabilities in the world. There is now also a Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and even the Estonian state has adopted it. The previous document was also adopted by the Estonian Government and approved in 1995. The Estonian translation of the document was "General concept of the invasion policy of the Republic of Estonia'. The House of Disabled was obliged to monitor compliance with both the concept and the standard rules. We began to examine the text of this document. As in many of our documents, the Estonian text was quite difficult to read, a bit confusing, and so we made the original. We worked through it thoroughly and became quite wise. There are also some places in the magazine that have been translated from this document in a completely different way into Estonian. And we tried to convey the content of the original document in a very simple language in the magazine and, of course, in a short way, quite eloquent. Unfortunately, we were so keen on reading the basic document, especially the English original, that no one else could think about these things. The Estonian social system started to develop separate services as pieces of puzzles, the state and municipalities to hold a pingpong match whose duty and task is to roll tasks on each other's shoulders without a central plan. At any moment, each party could point a finger at families, that we have an inclusive society, that people with disabilities are equal to others, and that you, as families, have a duty to care for your loved ones. However, the UN standard rules state in black that, before people with disabilities can be removed from the institutions and otherwise integrated into the ordinary society, public authorities, i.e. both state institutions and local authorities, must fulfil four very specific preconditions. This thing just doesn't work any other way, it's just gonna be a mess. However, we suddenly forgot about this 'little thing' by the leaders of social life, politicians, the controllers and the parties involved themselves. In the latter case, I think it is the most apologizing, because their shock, overload, helplessness and shackle have simply been so great. But let us now see what the preconditions are, which we have been looking at for 17 years. These are the rules in this international document 1 to 4. Firstly, a wide-ranging explanation that all parties involved, their helpers, Heads of State and also the wider public can understand what we are talking about. Unfortunately, we have not done this job. A small piece of the puzzle has been made: everyone knows that there are people with wheelchairs. But already alone this fact, if, for example, by reading a magazine in this hall, you find something new or surprising for you, in fact, this work has not been done. Rule No 2 is to make medical care available, including rehabilitation. As early as possible and effectively, intervention is needed to eliminate or minimise the extent of the obstacle. It's the cheapest and most practical way. We're very often left out of business, so they're getting worse. Early detection, early detection, is one of the most important keywords. Let's take autism. We find out that the child is disabled and that there are insurmountable problems with him when he becomes aggressive somewhere in his teens, he really does have deep problems. The fact that the world is aware of how the right intervention in preschool education can help most autistics so that they may not even have insurmountable problems is completely news to us. Excuse me, was that a beep for me? Can I ask you five more minutes for questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U50	Please, five minutes extra time for questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U51	Rule number 3 is making rehabilitation available. This is one big dance around rehabilitation plans and services. The problem is basically that there is no money, but it's actually about order and understanding what rehabilitation is. If we make rehabilitation available to a disabled person, it will be much easier to carry on with him. The fourth important rule is access to support services. In our society, it is once again that, if the municipality is able to do so, it helps the caretaker. It should be the other way around. Support services are intended to ensure that, if disability has also survived after rehabilitation and rehabilitation, this obstacle must be compensated by support services so that a person can move, get to work or be able to maximise himself or herself in his or her own situation. Let's look at this scheme, the state and people with disabilities. (I'm gonna jump over those thoughts that I wanted to come up with.) We've reached something like this in our system. Until recently, people with disabilities generally belonged to the state. Disabled people were embarrassed, and they were placed away from healthy homes. People with more severe disabilities just died. Now that medicine is powerful and societies value humanity, if everyone has the right to life and participation, Estonia is also trying to solve this issue correctly, in a tone that suits the world and according to what is the custom in Europe. We've ruined the institutions. We have declared people with disabilities equal to others and are saying that we are dealing with their involvement. The real burden, however, is borne by the caretakers. (I'm skipping a topic.) Where does this burden come from? Evidently, this earth is familiar with some of the magazines of October. This picture is eloquent because precisely these sectors, the quality, operation and cooperation of their work, depend on how much burden falls on the shoulders of their carers. In fact, we also have a system designed to ensure that all these areas work and that people should not fall, especially when there are dots, where there is a strong black line. However, we often have these gaps, the gaps that need to be carried out by our own caretakers. Look, there's 200,000 in the middle of it. It is easy to think that if 13000 people are currently receiving care support in Estonia, this is the problem of 13,000 people. But we figured out (again quite sketchy) how many people are busy daily and constantly caring for their own care in Estonia, not because of jokes, but to a significant extent. For example, I'm actually a caretaker for 24 hours. I've just been able to arrange this for myself differently. If we put 100,000 disabled people next to these 200,000 people and another 100,000 specialists who deal with them every day, we'll get about 400,000 people. This is one third of the Estonian population, who is most directly affected by this whole issue. All people actually want to take care of their loved ones, that is not the question. The question is how we will let this happen in our country. I see the issue of human rights here. Individuals can be cared for with the help of their own carers, and this must be done because it is ultimately cost-effective and beneficial for the state and close to the heart of the people. But we should ensure that the human rights of their own carers are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kangro. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this interesting presentation. In your presentation, you outlined the rules of conduct, as well as the documents to which Estonia has joined. My question is whether solutions have been found for the various topics that are likely to be individual cases, both the Touch Points magazine and the New Point TV programme. Have you been able to do good to people through the problems reflected there? Have there been generalisations of individual issues and these issues been resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U54	Thank you. That is a good question in the sense that we have indeed gone down a path that is not typical of the press. The classic is that a journalist has to raise topics, talk, write and show, and then society has to grab the bull by the horns and take action. I have been a journalist myself for nearly 25 years reflecting the issues of people with disabilities. I have a very long experience in this field. Indeed, in the last five to six years, we have taken a more aggressive path and, by putting quite a lot of energy into the game, have also tried to solve situations and seek help for people. We have done so in such a sense of interest to see how things work in concrete terms. Take, for example, the story of Riina and Mare. If, according to the press, we had only taken an interview from the service providers and found out that Riina had to go in line for the service, then it would have been one story. But we've been watching them for the second year, and maybe we'll be watching for many more years, if we can get this show and the magazine to go on, that's where we're going with it. How do these things even happen in Estonia? What must be done, and with what results can you expect? We have been able to do this work, and it is probably the bulk of experience that has gathered for our little editor, which now allows us to generalise, draw conclusions and propose solutions. As for the Touch Points magazine, we did this a year and a half ago. We saw that the TV show alone wouldn't improve the world as much as we wanted. So we started this magazine, which, as you may know, is going to people's homes in direct mail. It's a magazine with a big print. Unfortunately, we still do so completely free of charge, pay part of the costs of printing and mail and collect donations to send it to families of disabled people across Estonia. They don't go anywhere looking for that information because they can't go out there. Our aim is to send this magazine across Estonia to absolutely all the institutions whose employees deal with this topic as specialists, and to the heads of state, as you are here, and to hope that, thanks to this kind of cooperation, to raising problems and thinking through a common approach, there will be some kind of platform for cooperation. The greatest recognition we have received comes from many readers from these homes, between the four walls. They say that they feel that they are being spoken for the first time, and they are delighted to know that the same magazine will come to Toompea, for example. It's like their invisible bond with the country. They have the hope that if this story, which is written about them, is not exactly about them, but where they recognize themselves, people who make laws, vote and write strategies will also read, something must change.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U55	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U56	Mrs Kangro, I would like to thank you very much for the work you have done over a long time to make this issue known to society. This debate today is also largely the result of your actions. But I am a very pragmatic person, so I have a very specific question. If you were the Prime Minister of Estonia, what would be the first three steps you would take to alleviate this problem? I specifically ask about the Prime Minister, because Estonia is an authoritarian state in which the government does what the Prime Minister says, and we in this Parliament are doing what the government says. So please state these three measures. Maybe somebody's applying them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U57	Well, 'good' is, of course, to answer it in one second, but I'll give as high quality a second's answer as possible. I would like to make every effort to ensure that this amendment to the family law is made very quickly so that the family does not have a lifelong obligation to care for its disabled child. In most normal countries, there is such a view that even a disabled child, even if he or she is disabled since birth, becomes an adult at the age of 18 and becomes independent, even though he or she may not stand by herself. I can really say that we have such a situation that, in the worst of circumstances, it is precisely those people who are born with a child with a very serious disability that are being taken care of. And actually, the perspective is that these mothers and fathers are a little easier because it's easier for them to step out of the game, which, very and very often, also happens, is meant to take care of this child in the flesh until death. Although, in fact, international acts binding on Estonia also say that this incarceration is only valid until they are of adult age. From full age, it should be normal for a family, i.e. a mother's contribution, to be financial. And money can't be taken from him forever. It can only be taken so much that a mother retains a portion of her income to live a deserving human life, and only the money left over can be taken away from her. That's what international acts say, but we don't follow them. So the first thing to do is to introduce a clause into the law that the parent's obligation to care for his or her severely disabled child ends at the age of 18 and society takes over that responsibility from there. Of course, in normal conditions of maternal care, the child's contact will always remain. The second thing I would do as Prime Minister is this. I would follow the principle stated very clearly in this same UN document, which we still have the basis for disability policy, as well as in all the following documents that Estonia has approved, in order for the system to develop normally, the country must have an independent and highly competent body (body), a cooperation body that is a partner of the state. These are not associations in the third sector, which, in my view, has now become the House of the Disabled. He developed historically as an extension of the Ministry of Social Affairs' arm, but he is currently an NGO. In my understanding, however, these have not resulted in a very independent, professional and vigorous intervention in politics, precisely for the development of the state and human resources. Legally, it may not be possible to expect an NGO to do so. The third sector is a matter of its own nature, it is self-help organisations that have a role to play. But this is exactly what it is like to do in the world, i.e. to create a proper, highly professional, committed and fully independent advisory body for the country to resolve these issues. What would I do third? I would probably try to find a solution to this question: the disability pension is about EUR 250, but the care service (e.g. living in a nursing home, being in a special care service) costs EUR 1000. How can that be? I would like to try to find an answer to this question and change the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U58	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! How do you assess the private initiative, including the church's contribution to solving the problems of informal care so far? I am thinking, in particular, of solutions of the type of Mary's home. I hear there are other projects like this going on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U60	Thank you. There were actually two questions. One is the activities of the churches and this line. It's awfully necessary in a spiritual sense. We know a lot of families in difficult circumstances who eventually, when they are in the north, even lower than in the north, find comfort in faith. Given that moral values and mental thinking are so little appreciated in our society at this stage of development, the participation of churches is certainly very welcome. As for Mary's villages and the homes built by parents, they will win with themselves. They do this, not as a 'normal' third sector, but out of horror, fear and panic about the future. This job deserves credit, but it's an awfully hard job. Get money from nowhere to build six houses on the field and put your children there to live it's a very, very hard job, especially after the recession. And actually, it only solves their parents' problem. Look, there's no normal tour of nursing homes or such villages. When young people in their 20's go to live there, they live there for 60 years, and there are no other places available. Those parents whose children are in school, the parents of their first - class children, should now start building these villages for their children so that they can create this place for them. What do I want to say in conclusion? Why is it in our country that if you have a normal child, you assume that you usually have a guaranteed place in kindergarten and school, that he will grow up and become independent? However, if you have a disabled child (where we know that it is not the fault of these people or the free will that they have a disabled child just like that), then suddenly parents themselves have to build kindergartens and schools if they are not satisfied with public schools and eventually have to build nursing homes for their children. Isn't that too much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U61	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, In this same article, 'On the wall of Juhtmega', which you wrote more than a year ago, you say this: 'Our country is from Teflon, from there the everyday reality just bounces back. [... ] Even if someone sees that things are not right, the problem will be rejected and the competent excuses will be found bitterly. Like there's no money. Or that Estonia has traditional care, it has always been so. But the circumstances have changed, that the structure of families is no longer a peasant, and that medicine has never been so omnipotent as a survivor, that the organisers of state life in their truth and law are not shaken. " You said that this article was a surprise to society. I'm asking if anything else happened besides the surprise. Have the decision-makers at least acknowledged the problems? I'm not talking about solutions like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U63	Thank you. This article was the first part of the three-part cycle of slavery. I am sincerely pleased that its message actually arrived to quite a number of people. I guess for the first time, things started happening in my life. You see, the third part of this series dealt with the cheque economy of guardians. And I am terribly grateful to all those who contributed to the rapid, operational amendment of the law. It was, of course, a very small and simple thing that could be fixed, but I am very, very grateful. I think a big step has been taken, but it is too small to be satisfied. I just want to say that I have a lot of parents and family members of disabled children who, when you're visiting them, pull out of the closet files with their correspondence with the state agencies, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the local government, the Social Committee of the Riigikogu (not with your membership, but from 8 to 12 years ago), etc. I said 'teflonist' earlier, but these are Teflon answers that come to a private person. I'm a little bit easier now that I've got a show in the back and all the outputs to do these things. That's why I'm doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U64	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U65	Thank you, Madam President. I have a procedural question, namely one offer that ladies and gentlemen may agree with. And maybe as President-in-Office, you'll allow what I'm asking. Would it be possible to give my question time, 20 minutes to Mrs. Tiina Kangro? I can be questioned in the halls and anywhere else. All the ladies and gentlemen who have registered here (there are eight here) would actually like to ask Mrs Tiina Kangro. I'd just take the subject up with my presentation, and whoever wants to ask me, it comes up and turns the button. I beg you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U66	This is not a traditional proposal, but if that is what you want, you could have foreseen it already when you proposed the subject. The point is, the board always listens to prayers. But yes, if that's what you want, you won't be asked any questions, you can only make a presentation. I am taking this decision now, but it is an exceptional decision. Next time, I ask everyone who comes up with such a problem to think earlier about what virtue might then provide more answers to the questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin asked for a word before, and his hand was up. Do you have a wish? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U67	It was my time to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U68	Yeah, I basically had the same procedural question. I wanted to suggest that we may be able to extend the time for replying by voting in order not to harm anyone. There was also an offer to give your speaking time for these answers. But if you agree with Mrs Helmen Hunter's proposal, I think it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U69	The point is that we cannot extend, because there is a request before me from the group, and I will follow it. So we're going to keep going. I agree, as I said, exceptionally give this time to Mrs. Kangro. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I thought you had a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U70	Yeah. Please ask now!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U71	Dear waitress, There is a graph of touch points on page 22, which shows how the number of children with disabilities is increasing. It's absolutely stunning. I have three brief questions in one question. Firstly, is it possible to look at the previous period, i.e. what was this figure before 2005? Secondly, can you tell us any reason why there has been an increase of more than 30% over the last six years? And what awaits us in the near future, i.e. will this process go on with the same dynamic and how many more of these people will come?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U72	Thank you. On the website of Statistics Estonia, data is available in the database. They date from at least 2000, in certain paragraphs even earlier data are available. So that's where you can look at it all. The last question I answer is that this line doesn't go up to infinity, not 100%. That's not gonna happen. Why has it risen? There are different reasons for this. One reason for this is certainly that people have received more help, they have been detected, they have been diagnosed with diseases, they have been accounted for. A lot of people used to think, as you know from your childhood, it was just a socialist or weird people. And those who were thought to be drunks and who were somewhere in a ditch were, in fact, maybe autists. That's the question. If the background to your question was whether, even in the case of disabled children, there is something that we all know for a certain percentage of adults that the determination of disability may be an 'own-initiative' labour market measure, i.e. if you are in our field, you do not have a job, but your legs are aching, then we will combine the trees so that you can get a small amount of money from the state, not from the government's wallet, I think that there is no problem with children in general. If there is, maybe one, two, three, four, maybe one hand on the fingers. For example, when parents have overdramaticized the situation because of family disputes or custody issues and have combined some overexploited disability. But these are absolute exceptions, and there is still no such thing as children in general. What's that percentage compared to the developed world? It's approaching the percentage that's in the rest of the developed world. So that should be more or less okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U73	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, thank you for a very thoughtful and meaningful presentation and I admire your perseverance in continuing to address this issue. Thank you, too, to my colleague Helmen Kütt, who, as a politician, voluntarily gave up a good opportunity to perform in front of a large audience.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U75	He's still performing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U76	But I want to ask you, too. After all, it is not just people who are able to work that leave Estonia. Families also leave Estonia with a disabled person, including a disabled child. They go to countries where they are much better cared for than we do. Do you have any statistics on how many people have already left Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U77	Thank you. That is a very serious question. I have just been told by the director of a rehabilitation facility that, for example, the departure of visually impaired people can already be compared to the so-called tourism of going to Finland. They go where they can live a quality life, are valued and are also applied as employees. Indeed, this trend has arisen in the case of disabled children. We are in contact with a team of five or six families who have gone to England, Sweden, Norway and Finland. And what's to deny, they're all doing well. Only the question is, we don't want all 10,000 families leaving here. The second question on this subject is that you see, these worst-case people don't even leave us. They can't because they're so far down they can't even leave. And they will also not be able to do what the Prime Minister suggested some time ago to vote with your feet on the reform of your municipality. If you are with your 19 euros and a non-breathing, non-eating and non-motivating child somewhere in Peipsiääre municipality, you will not be able to move to Tallinn to get services.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U78	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U79	Thank you for what you've done and your strength! Earlier, there was talk of rehabilitation, and the claim was that the problem was not so much about money as about bad arrangements. I'm going to give you a chance to explain this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U80	It's a ten-year-old dance around rehabilitation. I have also personally proposed over the years to the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs that you should admit that this went wrong. Let's get a new page, make a new and better system, make a professional system! But it's too harsh to swallow. We're still going on with the patching method, which really, as we know, isn't going anywhere. It's about money, of course. Here it is good to make such a comparison: the media budget of the city of Tallinn is just as high as the price of rehabilitation services for all people in need of rehabilitation in the Estonian state. It's a random example, of course, but it's always nice to compare. The question is, as I said in my presentation, that unfortunately, our people do not have enough to think about and plan for a longer period of time. We're such day butterflies. Anyone who gets a piece of a puzzle admires it and tries to do something with it. It is not possible to deal with human resources in this way. Rehabilitation service for rehabilitation. In fact, what should be done as a whole should be based on people who cannot cope themselves, who have obstacles, disabilities and problems and who need help. We cannot make a child with special needs go to a school where he or she may not have his or her finger off, as little as possible, is divided into special needs education, and his or her mother takes a day off from work a week in order to drive a taxi, car or disabled position, to take the child out of school at a certain time of day and take him or her to the rehabilitation centre for a logo beet service for one hour. Then he takes the child back to school. Think about what it's gonna cost! Well, if you don't mind, the disabled will pay for it. But the system is like this, there's nothing to blame for. I've tried endlessly to convince people that we're going to end this puzzle economy. Let us make sure that we pull these stories between the education, social and health sectors, including rehabilitation and labour market services, by putting together money. We will see that if a small disabled child is in kindergarten, what can we do with him as a whole? It doesn't matter that you go to a health centre once a week for 12 weeks, and you get a rehabilitation service there because there's no more for you. And then your mother takes you to an extra-cost rehabilitation facility for 35 weeks once a week to get the same thing. Then the school says we don't have any money, so we can offer it to your child, but we can't do it, etc. It's like a total hot spot. If only there were a professional organisation in Estonia, some kind of brain trust, a cooperation chamber or body that would sketch the whole subject with the expertise of a specialist. I cannot answer why the Ministry of Social Affairs does not see these things or why the House of People with Disabilities has not intervened in these painful matters. Why does this house go and gladly sign something solemnly again, and then everybody pretends that things are okay? It's not okay, we need professionalism. I'm sorry, but I said it sincerely!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U81	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Kangro, thank you very much for your profound and engaging report. I have such an empirical question for you. When Mr Allik asked what your three primary activities as Prime Minister would be, I ask more broadly. In 20 years, we have made various leaps in the development of our relatively project-based and very pragmatic country, one area goes out of the way, then the other will catch up. What really is the problem with wider policy development? Where are we most behind? Is it about the lack of money or empathy, the indifference of society to these problems, the will of the public sector, the administrative capacity or the willingness of different sectors to act against this teflonity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U83	Thank you. It's a complicated question. But the point is that we just had, or even now, have this state in a society that's being asked what's going on. Why are people in one place and heads of state in another place? I think that's part of the story. Why is that? I'm not the one here to answer it exhaustively. But I think that in such a small country, an area called Estonia, public areas such as education, the social sphere and the labour market should be the responsibility of the state. Health already is. I'm not talking about totalitarianism or anything. I'm talking about the state taking single responsibility. I do not want to start talking about administrative reform, because the reform will not solve anything either. We can make an excellent administrative reform on 15 parishes, but still find a way not to do what is necessary to preserve and develop human resources. I see that the question is, in fact, that this ping-pong game must be brought to an end and that the public authority, which includes the municipalities, must take a clear responsibility. Of course, this does not mean what a high official of the Ministry of Social Affairs said to me a few years ago. When I was saying this, he specifically told me that you have a great idea that means that every morning, for 29 Gonsiori, 226 cars are launched to take people to local governments to lead social life. No, it doesn't have to work that way! It is clear that people are being dealt with on the ground, but responsibility must be completely uncompromising in one place, the state, the public authorities. That's what I propose.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U84	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, first of all, I express my deep admiration for your commitment. But let's get on with it. Estonia currently contributes a great deal to civil society: we replace professional rescue commandos with voluntary rescue teams, professional law enforcement with voluntary law enforcement, etc. At the same time, we know that civil society in Estonia is relatively strong. If this problem is so wide-ranging and large, where is the limit for civil society and personal responsibility and for organisation and responsibility by the state? I understand that this line should shift towards the country. But how far?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U86	All these things are described and explained in the theory of administrative management. Actually, there's no rocket science here. The issue is that civil society forms of expression, the citizens' initiative, must be taken into account and cooperated with them. We cannot do as the head of a large hospital once told me that everything is in the best health care in Estonia, and there is nothing wrong with medicine, only one thing is wrong with them if they weren't. It's the same with the country. It would be nice to manage it if people could manage everything on their own, maintain their own cripples, build schools, kindergartens, whatever. But here is the question of why we pay taxes and where is the private sector that pays for all this? The solution is, however, that civil society, this whole citizens' initiative and the social movement have a very well-defined role to play, which must be taken into account. They must be listened to and involved in cooperation. Cooperation is not about the state saying that you are now taking care of these old ladies there, but it is about finding an optimal solution that will lead to further progress and ensure sustainability. It's a matter of communication, communication, but also of professionalism. You have to understand things. The third sector has no direct obligation to understand matters. It may also take place without the utmost professionalism, but it is not possible, in my opinion, to lead the country without the utmost professionalism in the areas for which responsibility is given.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U87	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U88	Thank you. Thank you, too, for your very meaningful and thoughtful presentation. We have often heard the rhetoric from right-wing parties that we clean up the economy and then turn more towards the people. Your report today revealed that about one third of the Estonian population is directly, indirectly, involved in this system, being self-carers or carers. This is a very large number of people who certainly have very great potential, i.e. whether and how they can be implemented, to make better use of them in the development of society. Can you tell us whether our country has an overview of the number of people who need help, those who need care from home, and how many people who provide it? And how many people are left out of this system or statistics?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U89	There were a lot of questions. I'd like to answer all of them, but we'll have to keep talking after that. I'll start with the last question about statistics. No, there are no statistics in our country on this, which is absolutely amazing. A year or a half ago, I became more interested in whether anyone had taken any steps, and I was hoping that someone had made plans to deal with the grown - up disabled children. From the mid - 1980's, these were the first generations that families began to leave at home swimming in the opposite stream. These children are now about 35 years old and their parents are 65+. The parents of these children have lived an awfully difficult life, doing everything for their children and living in poverty. They're worn out, and maybe they don't live until they're 82, which is the average life expectancy of our women. Does the state have any kind of plan for the disabled children now in their homes? How many are there? I mean, there's gonna be more of them all the time. Their parents have not yet begun to die, even though there have been isolated occasions. For example, some twins with Down's disease said when the door was broken down that they had not eaten or washed for a few weeks. They said Mom wouldn't answer them anymore, but they couldn't call for help, they had been there with their mother. What's the plan for our country? What about those people hiding in their homes? Has anyone counted them or more or less counted them? We know that there are no places in nursing homes providing special care and there are no such facilities to put these people there. I got a response from the Ministry of Social Affairs that they don't know how many there are. The total number of adults with disabilities is known. And they don't have a plan that goes on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tiina Kangro. Your time is up. The double time for answering questions is also over. I will next invite a colleague from the Social Democratic Party Group, Helmen Küti, to speak on the floor. You can't ask any more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U91	Madam President, first of all, thank you very much for allowing Mrs Kangro to answer her questions at that time. My colleagues and I meet in this hallway all the time, and they'll be able to ask if there's anything to ask me. It is not common for a specialist such as Mrs Kangro, a person who is very good at the subject, to speak on the floor of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests, carers up on the balcony and organizers of informal care! First of all, I would like to thank today's waitresses for professionally and honestly addressing the subject of informal care. I hope that the situation in this area became better understood by everyone, some perhaps for the first time becoming aware of the real situation. On 3 December each year, the International Day of People with Disabilities is celebrated. This is also done in Estonia, which was celebrated this year. On that day, attention will be paid to the concerns of people with special needs, the services they provide, as well as the responsibilities and opportunities of the state and local authorities, as well as the real needs. Then comes the day of day, and the caretaker and caretaker are often left alone with their worries. Our country has certainly achieved a great deal after regaining independence in 21 years. Bringing the topic of informal care to the grand hall of the Riigikogu as a matter of national importance does not seek criticism or accusation. The Group of the Social Democratic Party wishes to speak honestly about the situation and jointly find real solutions, without the lines of force between the parties and without the dividing line of the mental opposition- coalition in this Chamber. On 13 October 2011 the first conference dedicated to the care and care of the Estonian family was held in the heart of Estonia, Paides NGO Eesti omastehooldus. On 25 October of this year, the City of Tartu organised the annual conference "The Challenge of Home Care In recent years, Estonian society has become aware of the real situation of its own carers and the risks hidden there to the sustainable functioning of the state. In the case of informal care, we are talking about the care of people of very different ages and needs from birth to death. We are talking about children with disabilities, people of working age with disabilities and elderly people who need care because of their disability or age. Each of us can become a carer or a person in need of care in an instant. Man's life is fragile and terrifyingly unpredictable, and in fact very much depends on others, especially in terms of need for help. In our daily struggles, we do not think that there are nearly 200,000 family carers living in Estonia. Now about the care and Estonian laws. § 27 of the Constitution states that the family is obliged to care for members in need. However, § 97 of the Family Act states that maintenance is justified by the existence of another descending or ascending relative who is unable to take care of himself. On 1 April 2005, the laws were amended, resulting in the transfer of the State's care allowance to municipalities for persons in need of adult care. Currently, in Estonia, disability benefit is usually 15 euros for a carer of a person with a severe disability and 25 euros for a carer of a person with a deep disability. In 2010, local authorities also started paying support to carers of children with disabilities. It is paid by different municipalities to the tune of EUR 19 to 100. Although this large amount is rarely paid, 19 euros is common. The payment of care allowance is accompanied by the payment of social security contributions for non-social carers. The State will allocate funds to the municipalities for this purpose. In the case of adults, the funds needed for carer support, as well as the grant funds, will come from the Fund, and children will be targeted. What are the problems? In-house carers are not provided with sufficient support services or are overexpensive. The level and availability of services in Estonia are very different, just as there are different municipalities and cities. The lack of services, however, leads to a deterioration in the health and incapacity for work of those who are caring for themselves. Informal carers are not covered by social protection guarantees and the remuneration paid to them is too low. By means of guarantees, I mean, for example, the right to leave and similar guarantees, which are actually owned by anyone who is employed on a contract of employment. Self-help and support groups offer support, but carers often do not have the opportunity to participate because there is nowhere to leave the carer. As Jüri Kõre, a social scientist, came out of his presentation, personal care forms such a large part of Estonian welfare that it is not possible to organise the field without it. In Estonia, the concept of family care obligation has been relatively rigid and unchangeable over three centuries. At the same time, the economic and family models have changed. The level of education of women has increased. matrimonial relations, as well as the migration of young people and working age, in particular emigration, have changed, reducing the number of potential carers. Bringing the topic of informal care as a matter of national importance to the grand hall of the Riigikogu should bring to the attention of both legislators and the general public that in a situation where the Estonian population is ageing and the number of taxpayers is decreasing, human and financial resources must be used correctly. Estonian society has started to understand this in the last year. However, the welfare services provided by the state and local authorities do not provide people with a sense of security or security, and they actually create an alienation. Inherited carers have become buffers for public services. Indeed, I very much hope, as has been said at the outset, that these problems can be dealt with across party politics, on the basis of research by scientists, involving stakeholders, looking for better social policy solutions and reviewing laws, if necessary, by changing them. Now, some numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, you all have the Touch Points numbers in the magazine. I don't know how much exactly, but I hope you all read it a lot. However, I would like to say a few figures for the sake of the verbatim. These are the figures for December 2011 and January 2012. In Estonia, there are 9374 children with disabilities aged 1 to 17 years, 5800 of whom are deeply and severely disabled and 3574 with medium disability. Only 5.7%, or 512, live in replacement homes. The family cared for 8862 children, 5400 of whom are severely and deeply disabled. One-seven thousand and one-seven thousand and one-seven thousand family members are involved in informal care, but only 1077 children's carers are registered as carers. And those who are in this form will receive a grant of EUR 19 to 100. The total number of people of working age with disabilities aged 18 to 64 is 54630. Of these, 29,000 are deeply and severely disabled, and 25630 are medium-disabled people who generally manage on their own. There are 5.7% living in the nursing home, i.e. 3130 people, with nearly 25,000 people with severe and deep disabilities in the care of the family. There are nearly 50,000 family members who have been grabbed, but there are 3,000 of them. We have 230250 parents (64 years of age and older). There are only 2.3% of them in nursing homes. Probably the reason for the lack of money is because the relatives are having difficulty paying for the place of the nursing home. About 70,000 elderly people, at least 30,000 of them every day, need regular side aid and care. One hundred and forty thousand people have been involved in informal care, including a continuous 60000. The official guardian is designed for 10,000 elderly people, and this guardian is usually a woman's face. This is particularly worrying, as women initially have caring responsibilities towards their children, which will later become a caring obligation towards their parents. Unfortunately, Estonia has not carried out very long-term and in-depth studies. You can't blame it either, because the country is young. After all, we want everything to happen quickly in such a situation. I received a study of the long-term care case from the OECD report, but unfortunately it only concerns the elderly. The OECD report is the most comprehensive and extensive analysis of Estonia in recent years, which assesses what is happening in the government as a whole. The activities, organisation and possible changes necessary to improve the quality of public services in the central government of the country as well as local authorities will be analysed. In one part of the report, this is also analysed as a case study. What is set out in this report? The fact that Estonia spends the least of its GDP on health care and welfare in the European Union. At the same time, according to the OECD, poor quality of care is due not only to lack of money, but to the current fragmented system, where health and care function rather separately, and to the fact that local authorities are characterised by poor cooperation. It contains hidden resources that would actually be reasonable to use in a targeted and effective way. Although the need for assistance is high, the choice and availability of services varies widely between municipalities, as has been suggested at the outset. There are municipalities that only pay carers' allowance to their people, but also those who are able to provide five-six types of care. An important issue in the case of long-term care, according to this report, is precisely the financing of the health and care system and the organisation of services. In particular, the lack of coherence of the system has an impact on active treatment, where the repeated hospitalisation of people left unaided leads to unreasonable costs and inappropriate use of labour and money. The report also contains proposals and good practices that could suit Estonia. But it would certainly take more than seven minutes for me to talk about them. I'm just going to read out a few suggestions and then say a wish for Christmas or graduation. For example, the report envisages the development of a national long-term care policy. I would like to congratulate NGO Estonian Ownership, who has started to prepare a development plan. The second recommendation is to address customer needs in the context of harmonisation and cross-sectoral cooperation. Thirdly, better use of available resources is recommended. The fourth recommendation is to introduce a comprehensive and coherent methodology for assessing the need and to introduce evidence-based care through analysis and research development. Mrs Tiina Kangro also pointed out that the country, sectors and institutions could be run by professionals. What can we say in conclusion or in conclusion? I very much hope for cooperation that today, in the light of these large numbers and the reality of the situation, it will lead to cooperation in the Chamber. The only step in ratifying the rights of people with disabilities should not be to say that the papers are in order. I also very much hope that small initiatives will find support, not rejection, if they are randomly presented by the opposition. Whether this is a good example of ending the receipt economy or some legislative proposals that could ease the lives of carers and carers. I also hope to continue the very good cooperation so far in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu, where different parties can talk about concerns and not only talk about them, but also the decisions that follow. And I hope that the new Minister for Social Affairs, who has taken up office, will also take this area and the subject matter into his own heart. I hope for positive decisions from all of us, especially for those people who really expect and need them, because the strength of the country depends on its weakest link. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U92	Thank you very much, Mr Helmen Hunter. I will now open negotiations and start with the representatives of the political groups. Please, as representative of the Group of the Maret Maripuu Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Inheritance is the most important topic of Estonian culture and literature. Both Mrs Anna and Mr Toots thought about what would happen to parents after the farm had been passed on to them. The spiritual, moral, and purely human relationship between generations was part of life and conscience. However, no one thought that the state should be responsible for the care of parents. Giving Dad and Mom under so-called welfare, that's the kind of thing that wasn't more embarrassing. Socially speaking, everything was simple and clear. Different generations lived together on the farm, and at some point the old man handed the farm over to his son, who in turn maintained his parents. It is this understanding of the past that our constitution states that the family is obliged to care for its members in need. Many of the wordings of the Constitution and, in fact, the spirit that underpins our entire statehood will soon be a hundred years old. At the same time, the Constitution states that every citizen has the right to state aid in the event of old age, disability, survivors and deprivation, and people with disabilities are under the special care of the state and local authorities. So it's like there's a double of responsibility. The country and the family take care of the person in need together, but they may also complain to each other that why the other side does not care as much as necessary. There is no one answer here, and that is why it is good that we are discussing this subject today. In modern times, the burden of informal care has remained largely with the family, and in honor of the truth, the state has tried to slip its responsibility off its shoulders in this area. The result is that the services provided by the state and local authorities are difficult to access and the queues are long, the quality of the services provided can often be poor and often the cost of the service is so high that it cannot be paid. In the long term, taking care of a child or an elderly person in need is very short-sighted from the point of view of the state. When a disabled child is born to a family or one of the parents needs care, or even both, it creates additional stresses for the family. Work schedules need to be rescheduled and often lead to job losses, which in turn endangers the livelihood of family members themselves. The pressure on your wallet increases, and time for yourself becomes almost nonexistent. All of this may result in the person who helped others in the past being in need of help. There's a moral aspect here too. Putting responsibility for a needy child and for the elderly on a family that is already in a very difficult situation makes family relationships common to material relationships that reduce the spiritual morality of human content and intergenerational relationships. The new circumstances of the 21st century, including the inevitable mobility of living and jobs, mean that the country's share of informal care needs to increase. Looking at this issue from the point of view of the most important, or needy, we can say that the right relationship between the care provided by the state and the family will develop when it can be done freely, i.e. it is not just forced by circumstances. This means that a loved one is not assisted because there is no other option, or because the state does not take care of someone in need, but because their people have no heart, no money, or neither. The need for informal care often arises unexpectedly and can touch any of us. It is therefore extremely important that information in this area is available. First counseling is important so that a person who has entered a completely new situation does not break spiritually. There is a need to provide training on how to care for your loved one and knowledge on where to turn to find out which services are provided by the state and local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U94	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U95	Decisions concerning informal care can only be made together, by negotiating with different parties. To this end, it is necessary to clarify how care obligations can be shared between the family, local government and the state. The primary needs of those in need should be met and should not be separated from society. Neither should the responsibilities placed on the family's shoulders be disproportionate as they jeopardise the livelihood of the family members themselves. I think it's possible to find the right relationship, but I don't think that's gonna be the end of it. This is an issue that needs to be brought back to again and again, because it is an area that is changing and evolving in the same way that our society is changing and evolving. Finally, I would like to thank the Socialists and, above all, Helmen Küttt, who was led by such an important topic as the care of one's own people in the grand hall of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U96	Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. I would now like to ask my colleague Margus Tsahkna, who represents the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U97	Dear Chairman, Good companions and guests who are not presently in the hall, but they will hear! The topic of informal care is very important. I particularly like this title, which the Social Democrats have placed on this matter of national importance for today's debate, 'The situation of own care, its impact on the economy and the moral environment'. I am not going to repeat in my speech all the things that have been said in this Chamber today by people far more competent than me. People who have personally experienced these problems. People who have studied these problems in society at a high scientific level. People who, as a politician, have dealt with these issues. It's all sounded in this hall today. This title contains one set of words, namely 'impact on the economy'. If we all look at our experience in political parties as politicians, we know that ministers are generally divided into ministers of income and expense. Income politicians always have more say in decision-making, as the current understanding is that they are the ones who earn income for the state. And what this country is other than redistributing its income according to the political will and the goals it has set itself with the people. But what I'm saying is, this paradigm has to change. Often, these "costs" issues, which are largely social, are precisely revenue issues for the state and the public in the long term. I am pleased that the Touch Points magazine provides an example of calculations that, when seriously dealing with the subject of informal care, it actually means revenue for the state. Just as investments in children's and family policies and in education policy could also benefit society through informal care, when properly addressed and at the right time to make the right decisions. It is in the sense that people who are actually exposed to informal care every day would receive help, decent living and equal treatment with all other members of society. That is why it is very important that, in my opinion, the Riigikogu has recently started discussing these spending issues precisely from the point of view that in the long term it is the survival of the state and the people, i.e. income issues. One problem that has also occurred here is that, under the current arrangements, it is quite a responsibility, especially for the provision of services, for local authorities. As Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, the Ministry of Social Affairs has prepared a new Social Welfare Act, which also provides minimum standards for the provision of various social services to municipalities. However, this draft has not yet reached us from the Ministry, largely because, on very many issues, municipalities have not given their consent. Their reasoning is fully understandable because the State has not provided sufficient resources to deal with these issues and the revenue base of very many municipalities is not enough to do so. Only state decisions cannot be handled. It is therefore extremely important that we raise the awareness of society, as well as of decision-making politicians, or revenue politicians, of the fact that we can no longer overlook the so-called soft issues, which are also personal care. I want to say that these are very serious issues, and we need to deal with them now, better late than never. That is why I would like to thank the Socialists, led by Helmen Hunt, for raising this issue in this Chamber. I would also like to thank Mrs Kangro, who has been uncompromising in public about this subject, in the press. I think that very many people who do not come into contact with this topic on a daily basis have heard about this by now, and this awareness is the basis for making important political decisions in the future. Good luck, everybody! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U98	Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. Please, Mr Stalnukhin, as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U99	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a background in local government, which means that today's presentations didn't surprise me much. Nevertheless, it is a very grateful job that has been done today, because many in this Chamber simply cannot imagine what is happening in real life. There have been all kinds of precedents in the Riigikogu. I remember from the ninth formation that, for example, three times did not pass a bill restricting the possibilities of buying metal, but after a member of the Riigikogu was stolen two kilometres of cable from his cabin, it passed instantly. I also remember these debates in 1999 and 2000, when the spread of HIV and AIDS in Estonia began to be seriously discussed, and in this hall it was reprehensible that he should keep his cock in his pants. You remember that sentence. This showed more or less the official position, because at that time everything started from Ida-Viru County. It was only when the disease moved towards Central Estonia, Tallinn and Tartu that this began to be dealt with seriously. I wouldn't want this day to be remembered emotionally. At the end of the day, I will make one suggestion that I ask members of the Riigikogu to seriously consider. But first, a little bit of life. Many years ago, I had a good acquaintance in Narva who has now gone abroad to live with her sick child. He was very practical and energetic, and something was happening around him all the time. He had his own organization where he dealt with the problems of sick children. Once I asked him how it happens that everyone goes to me to ask for help at the council, but you turn to the sponsors, and everyone will definitely help you. He said he could explain very nicely to the sponsors what could happen to them in the next minute or hour, for example, just a drunk driver driving or a stone falling off the roof. And then they're in exactly the same condition as the people he's asking for help for. It is one thing, of course, to inform the public about what is happening in this area. For example, I was greatly helped when I was invited exactly ten years ago to a typical day at a day center. I arrived this morning and left this evening. It was a day care centre for disabled children, LAD, which is in good condition, still exists and is working on development work. I just sat there all day and realized what, where, who, and so on. For me, after that, there was no question of whether or not to support this day-care centre and other organisations for the disabled. Every time someone started talking about giving them $100,000 or $200,000 again, I told them to go there and suffer even half a day and put yourself in place of these people, and not in the place of the sick, but in the place of their parents. So it would be good to give such an opportunity to anyone who wants to have an idea of the conditions in which families with disabled children live. One more thing. It sounded like there was a need to carry out... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U100	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U101	... negotiations between the state and local authorities. This has already been noted in the reports of the political groups, and that is absolutely clear. Local authorities are already subject to a reduction in income tax receipts and additional costs. I would be very grateful if someone named a more or less serious issue, for which local authorities and the state have been able to agree in recent years. As far as I know, there is no such subject. It is in a sense a agitation that let disabled people vote with their feet and march towards the municipality where more money is available and more support can be given. What are you talking about? Are there places in Estonia where the Constitution applies and those where the Constitution does not apply? I think that this issue needs to be dealt with seriously. We're not gonna find a solution fast, but if we don't move towards it, we're never gonna get there. I think that this is an important enough issue for us to discuss all the issues here at the outset. You know that if we turn to the Ministry of Social Affairs or anyone else, what kind of answers will come from there? In my personal opinion, the Riigikogu could set up a special temporary committee to seek a compromise on this matter. Family care is a very important issue. I think that 2%, or the limit to which the Ministry of Defence's expenditure was raised, would be much more important if the same money had been given to finance care services for sick children. A very popular, well-known and popularly loved Russian writer once said such a sentence that wounded people should not be left on the battlefield. When those who fight see what is happening to their fellow regiments, i.e. how they are abandoned, they do not want to fight anymore. That also applies to sick children. We also need to show our solidarity in order for something to actually work out. We need to find a compromise and find it here in the Riigikogu without ministers, without the Prime Minister, who will ruin this whole thing anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-12-13_U102	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs once again for both the speeches and the answers to the questions. Our hearing is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 12.39 p.m.
