ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the first working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone have any drafts or inquiries to hand over? Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-11_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Employment Contracts Act and the Parental Benefits Act. In this law, we want to change the chapters that have been touched so far or have not specifically touched the triplets. The birth of triplets is an extraordinary event in Estonia, which occurs only a few times a year. In addition to three times the joy, the birth of triplets also leads to huge expenses for the family. Raising triplets as adults is much more costly than raising three single-born children, because for triplets there is no way of passing things on to the smaller ones of older children, and there are three times the costs of simultaneously raising triplets for food, clothing and children's recreational and sporting activities. In response to the reasoned request of the parents of the triplets, we want to ensure that the single birth grant for triplets is EUR 10000 and that, unlike the parents of individual children, both parents of triplets are remembered when determining parental pay. And since there are so few triplets, the adoption of the draft would only have a marginal effect on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-11_U3	Thank you. Does anyone else have any drafts or inquiries to hand over? No, it's not. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and the management board of the Riigikogu decides to adopt it in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now I'm gonna give you a couple of messages. On Wednesday 12 September, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Secondly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. A total of 94 parliamentarians have been registered, no 7. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since there are no points on the agenda for today's Maestro Arvo Pärt's birthday, the session is closed. Have a nice day! Closure of the sitting at 10.04 a.m.
