ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U1	Good Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Good guests! Good morning. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of Social Democrats has an inquiry to report to the Regional Minister. The subject of the inquiry is the activities of the Minister for Regional Affairs and the municipal think tank convened by him. Above all, we are concerned about the relations between the municipalities and the central government. The National Government Associations were not known to sign the State Budget Negotiations Protocol between the Government Delegation and the Municipal Associations. At the same time, we also know that this spring the general assembly of cities and rural municipalities of Estonia adopted a declaration which presented proposals to the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic to change the management of regional, county and local government and the organisation of the financing of local governments. In September of this year, the Minister of Justice published his intentions for the development of the principles of state reform. A new ranking of the capacity of local governments just appeared, from which we can see that the capacity of local governments is still very different and the differences are increasing. The Coalition Agreement provides for the establishment of a think tank for local governments, and in autumn 2011, the Regional Minister also convened this think tank. Unfortunately, the only press release that deals with the activities of this think tank is from November last year, and there has been little more information. In these circumstances, the Social Democrats have seven questions for the Minister for Regional Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U3	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U4	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen and guests! On behalf of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to ask the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. The subject is what is happening in the area of government of the Minister for Agriculture. The world is full of injustice. Unfortunately, there is also this in Estonia. It was a shame to read about the Postman of 4 October how women who return from parental leave to work are punished by reducing their pay in our democratic and European country. The man is always a smart and good and certainly a good working person, but it turns out that the work of women in Estonia is not yet valued enough, nor is their additional role. Yes, all this happened in the administration of the Minister for Agriculture, which is part of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and which values family policy at least in words. It was also awkward to read a press release, where he said cold and harshly that it was no longer worth being smart about. No excuse, no remorse. We understand that anyone may be wrong, but such behavior is in any case very much a matter of question. It is a good thing that the Gender Commissioner, or the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner, has taken up this matter. We have seven questions signed by 13 members of the Central Party Group. We very much hope that, in this area of administration, women will be treated more equally with men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U5	Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U6	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I have the honour of handing over the draft, the content of which is the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This draft led us to concern about the sometimes questionable intelligence of the settlement procedures and the simplicity of their application by the law enforcement authorities. In fact, settlement procedures in Estonia account for almost 97% of all types of court proceedings used in criminal proceedings and their application has, I dare say, become deserving. The draft includes acts of violence against both police officers and the staff of the judicial authorities in cases where no agreement procedure may be applied. So far, they have unfortunately been left out, although a large number of crimes against the state or against the performance of its functions do not allow for an agreement procedure. Another important restriction proposed is that there will be no negotiation of the type and level of punishment if the suspect or accused person has previously been punished as an adult for a intentional crime. We hope that this will help to ease the people's sense of justice and reduce the sense of impunity for criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted two inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. On Wednesday 10 October, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, there is no 13. Let's get to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U8	First of all, we have an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic in implementing European Union policy. The presentation will be made by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The Prime Minister's review may take 30 minutes, as well as the subsequent presentation by the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs. A single oral question may be submitted to both the reviewer and the Commission rapporteur. There will then be negotiations involving only the representatives of the political groups. So, please take a look at the Government of the Republic's activities in the implementation of European Union policy by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Excellencys! I thank you for the opportunity to give an overview of the government's European Union policy. A lively debate on European Union issues has started in Estonia and is at times even sharp. The last time we saw something like this was before the referendum on accession, almost ten years ago. The debate is timely because Europe is undergoing major changes. Especially for small countries, the time of change in international relations is always a time of difficult choices. These choices cannot and must not be made secretly, behind the back of the citizens. I would therefore like to thank the Riigikogu for its thoroughly considered decision to assess the constitutionality of the European Stability Mechanism, which is why I congratulate the Chancellor of Justice who initiated this process, and I therefore also welcome the open sessions of the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the future of Europe. I hope that today's debate in this Chamber will be part of this debate. I am also pleased to see the growing and increasingly professional interest in the topics of the European Union in the Estonian press. Honourable Riigikogu! We're about to have a choice. This choice is either to go along with a Europe that increases cooperation or to stay out of it. It is likely to be a process lasting several decades. José Manuel Barroso, President of the European Commission, has called for a future federation of nation states. It can also be otherwise described as terms defined differently. However, the idea remains the same: EU Member States, at least eurozone countries, are strengthening their cooperation, coordination, integration. More important than naming is the content of this cooperation. What are we talking about? Why is that necessary? In the simplest sense, the overhaul of the European Economic and Monetary Union is under way. Compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact alone may not keep the single currency stable, even though much has already been done in the years of crisis. A legislative package has been put into effect, which gives us the levers to deal with and prevent violations of financial discipline. The European Commission currently has much greater powers to analyse the economic situation in the Member States and to make recommendations to the countries on how to improve the situation. In the proceedings of the Riigikogu, a draft contract is known as a fiscal treaty, which obliges all its participants to conservatively shape their fiscal policy as we have been doing in Estonia for 20 years. It was yesterday that the Board of Governors of the European Stability Mechanism, the euro area IMF, held its inaugural meeting. The European Central Bank has taken steps to ensure the integrity of the monetary markets in the euro area. We are now much better protected than we were four years ago when Lehman Brothers' bank rat triggered the crisis. It should be noted here that, contrary to the popular perception that nothing is happening in euro area countries affected by the crisis, the figures speak another language. Although everyone still has a long way to go, they have significantly improved their fiscal position. The competitiveness of countries in crisis is improving, albeit slowly. The adjustment has not taken place as quickly as we hoped, and they must not relax, but changes are taking place. These are perfectly comparable to Latvia and Estonia's steps at the beginning of the crisis. But if the current crisis management measures work, why do something else? Because we can be sure that the current economic crisis will not be the last. The euro area and, more broadly, the European Union must be prepared for the next crisis. The European solution, based on the six decades of integration experience, is to strengthen cooperation. Herman Van Rompuy has referred to the need to develop cooperation in four areas: banking, fiscal, economic and political union, in preparation for next week's Council meeting. More specific and abstract ideas have been developed in all these areas, on which Estonia needs to develop its own views. Should the euro area have a separate financial instrument from the European Union budget that could be used to mitigate the effects of the crisis or as an incentive for structural reforms? Should the countries of the euro area enter into a more binding agreement with each other or with the institutions of the European Union, which would lay down more precise obligations to strengthen competitiveness, be it for the development of the labour market, for the austerity of public expenditure, or why not be better suited to today's requirements in reforming the education system? What should be democratic control over the implementation of these measures? And if we give the euro area greater decision-making powers, how can we ensure that these decisions are legitimate in a situation where the euro area currently has almost no political procedures? The government will discuss these issues this Thursday, but before I do, I would like to hear the opinion of the Riigikogu. It is also obvious that Estonia's views should eventually be shaped by the Riigikogu. These questions will be asked in concrete terms and must also be our answers, as we prepare for this December Council. Then we can begin to discuss in the European Union and Estonia whether innovations require changes to the Treaties of the European Union and to the Constitution of Estonia and, if so, to what extent. Honourable Riigikogu! I agree with the assessment made by Jüri Raidla, a member of the Constitutional Assembly and one of the authors of our constitution, on the recent day of legal researchers. Namely, that in a more cooperative, if you wish, in a more federal Europe, it will be easier to achieve the objectives set out in the preamble to the Estonian Constitution, and Estonia should be among the leaders of the deepening of European cooperation to ensure that our country's interests are respected. That is why the government decided to join a group of countries wishing to initiate enhanced cooperation on the introduction of a financial transaction tax. The decision as to whether Estonia will impose such a tax is still ahead of us, but this step would enable us to defend our positions and influence developments. Otherwise, we will only have one choice: to drag along or to stay behind. We see some Member States distance themselves from cooperation. I'm sorry to see that. Because I believe that cooperation will ultimately always be economically and politically beneficial, on both sides. If we don't cooperate, we'll all be poorer. If we are to remain out of cooperation, we should settle for less-protected and poorer Estonia in the long term, both economically and politically. It is not wise to reduce the membership of the European Union to money alone. In the same way, it is not wise to reduce the membership of the European Union to money alone. Once again, the share of loans granted and granted by the European Financial Stability Fund and the European Stability Mechanism, guaranteed and paid-up by Estonia, is more than five times smaller than the amount of subsidies that Estonia has received from the European Union budget or will receive in the next seven years. If we take aside the investments that have been made in Estonia partly because of the confidence that European integration and joining the euro area have offered to investors, we are talking about 10 times the difference. And when we talk about the benefits of the single currency, we must not forget the low interest rates on our private individuals and businesses. At this point, I would like to make a small deviation from the ongoing negotiations on the new budgetary framework for the European Union. It is clear that the state of Estonia, the Riigikogu and the government, as well as the members of the European Parliament elected from Estonia, will do their utmost to ensure that the next budget would allow the creation of Rail Baltic to begin with the same amount of money for investments as in the previous period and to a greater extent equalise the direct payments granted to farmers. This issue was also a major issue in all my meetings last week with the leaders of the European Union in Brussels. But we need to understand that although very much noise and noise are being made around the volume of the budget, the most important thing is where the money goes. Are the costs that we are planning to spend meaningfully and strengthen Europe? I also believe that the net contributors, those who demand budget cuts, are in fact much more interested in the content of the budget. I very much hope that we will be able to agree on the budget by the end of this year. Europe's citizens need a clear message that European investment in growth and jobs is guaranteed. Honourable Riigikogu! Democratic control over European decisions requires far more diverse mechanisms, more separation of powers and power-sharing than is the custom of a nation state. This requires a balance between institutions with different tasks. This principle is also the essence of the term 'federation'. This does not mean centralising power, but, on the contrary, sharing it between different levels. Just as it is not democratic for a single country to block the decision needed to ensure the well-being and security of most countries, it would not be understandable for most dictated decisions that take no account of the home affairs of some countries. We must constantly seek a balance between different areas, decision-makers and decision-making levels when making our new choices. It is reasonable and practical within a country to strengthen the legitimacy of our European policy and the practices supporting it. The Riigikogu has already opened up, extending its competence in exercising control over the operation of the European Stability Mechanism. A good tradition has developed in Estonia, according to which the Head of Government will attend the European Union Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu before the Council and euro area summits in order to discuss matters together. I propose that the Riigikogu consider supplementing the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act in order to confirm such rules of procedure in the law. This procedure may also be extended to allow the Prime Minister to come forward and explain the reasons behind the choices made even after the meetings. Let it be said here that I personally am always prepared to explain the decisions taken in the Council both before and after the House if the Riigikogu so wishes. Honourable Riigikogu! With my speech today, I marked some of the options facing Estonia in the near future. It is the competence of the Riigikogu to participate in these choices. The government is waiting for your wise decisions, which have been made after a thorough discussion of the substance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U10	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You've been asked questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U11	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! In your presentation, you underlined the importance of transnational cooperation both within the European Union and with third countries. Yesterday, the second pipeline of the Nord Stream pipeline was opened. As the only Baltic Sea state, Estonia did not participate in this project. Energy issues are important to the European Union. What are our plans: how will we proceed in the future with regard to the second stage of the Nord Stream pipeline?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U12	I do not agree with this definition that Estonia is the only country not participating in the Nord Stream project. The ends of the pipeline are known in which countries: one end in Russia and the other end in Germany. The claim that all countries that are close to the pipeline are participating in the project is not quite true. There are still relatively few participants and the majority of non-participants. No one has offered economic participation to Estonia for the following projects, and Estonia has no interest in participating economically in this project. We do not currently have restrictions on the supply of gas from Russia, which would be limited to the capacity of pipes. We therefore have no economic interest in joining Nord Stream's new planned pipeline project. I imagine that there are no other participants in this project before Germany, but it is noted that there are those who wish to buy gas in countries beyond our borders as well as Germany.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U13	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U14	Prime Minister! When the Supreme Court of Estonia decided on the right to participate in the ESM, the decision was decided as a matter of fact that ten votes were in favour and nine against, that the majority of the Riigikogu has the right to take such burdens on the Estonian state. The final decision also mentioned that the mandate obtained in the 2003 referendum was being exhausted. It is finite in the sense that Estonia's decision-making powers are constantly delegated to the European Union. You briefly mentioned that the government is also planning to discuss the renewal of the mandate at the government meeting that will take place the day after tomorrow. Would you explain, please, your idea of how the government is trying to renew its mandate to delegate and implement further decision-making powers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U15	Oh, no! I'm sorry, but you've got it all wrong. On Thursday, we will certainly not be planning a referendum. It's a big mistake. I didn't say anything like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U16	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U17	Respect, Prime Minister! As of today, does the government have real positive results in the field of equalising agricultural subsidies in the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U18	Real positive results can be achieved when we have the figures for the multiannual budgetary framework and the budget for the next period is approved. Only then will it be possible to talk about whether the results were or were not. At present, there is a more equalisation of direct payments, supported by decision-makers, leaders of several European Union institutions. Last week I met with the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz. He also confirmed at the press conference that direct subsidies for agriculture planned for the Baltic States are shamefully small and it is incomprehensible to him why farmers in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia should receive considerably smaller amounts of direct subsidies for agriculture than for example Romanian farmers. He also pointed out how much it would cost to increase subsidies from the Baltic countries to Romania. According to my memory, it was 0.07% of the European Union's budget. Schulz felt that such a small amount of money was certainly not the reason why the European Union should abandon the principle of solidarity and equal treatment. This is exactly the same understanding I have encountered at other levels of decision-making. After all, we realise that it is not possible to pay subsidies above average to absolutely everyone. It's about the same as paying everyone a salary above average. There's no way! It is also not possible to pay direct payments for agriculture to everyone above average; someone must also get below average. However, it is not acceptable to us at all that the low direct aid rates planned for the Baltic countries in the current project are penalising us, above all, for the reforms that have been carried out quickly and also for the repercussions of the Russian-Asian crisis. After all, the figures for this period have been used as a basis for establishing direct payments. I very much hope that understanding the need for equal treatment will once come to a consensual decision, so that Estonian farmers will receive much more equal treatment with other European farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U19	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U20	Good waitress! Really, it's a small amount. And there is one explanation for why he is so unfair: the name of this thing is Eurosolidarity. But I wanted to ask you another question. I mean, subsidising agriculture at all is a philosophical problem. We discussed with a Member of the European Commission that it is not understandable why, for example, the production of seashell necklaces and wooden spoons, etc., is not subsidised. In my opinion, the problem, frankly, is that subsidisation is, by its very nature, an extreme left-wing socialist policy. Question: do we agree with the socialist experiment that the European Union is currently carrying out by supporting everything against the free market? Would it not be more appropriate for our competitiveness to deepen the free market? I know what you're gonna say, but I want it to be perfectly clear right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U21	Yes, as a liberal, I would also like to have no subsidized areas at all. But life is not black and white. Life doesn't start since we became aware liberals, we have history. Agricultural subsidies also have a history and the creation of the European Union has a history. The merger of markets required, at the time, some farmers to be subsidised by producers in industrialised countries. And it is once in history that the established situation cannot be changed from day to day. Market relationships have developed under the conditions of subsidies. Of course, you might want to stop subsidising on a daily basis, but this is not going to work in real life. First of all, the redistribution of market power ratios is quite unpredictable. Secondly, millions of people should abandon a well-established standard of living, they should re-orient themselves in the market and this may not be feasible in real policy. I am convinced that Estonian farmers would be able to compete perfectly on the European market without any direct payments, but it must be a prerequisite that no direct payments are granted to other farmers, so that state subsidies are not paid to other farmers either. That is why, when we are talking about more equal treatment of Estonian farmers, we are talking about creating equal opportunities first and foremost. We are not asking for more money to support our farmers; we simply want equal conditions of competition. At the same time, I fully understand that, in the end, the solution to this issue will still go back to money, because it is practically impossible to reduce agricultural subsidies in the countries of Western Europe. After all, from the slides shown to illustrate my presentation, we have seen that in quite a number of countries people's incomes have been greatly reduced. If direct subsidies for agriculture were to be reduced, these slides would probably be much more imaginative than the reactions of the people following it would be more impulsive than we can now see on our evening TV news.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U22	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U23	Mr Prime Minister! In your presentation, you spoke very sympatheticly, in addition to the usual financial talk about European financial economic integration, about possible integration into education reforms. But how do you feel about integration within the European Union in the area of the code governing the social protection of the population? I am thinking of pensions, subsidies and the protection of minorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U24	Cooperation is also taking place in this regard within the European Union. If your question about pensions is aimed at some sort of uniform introduction of a European Union pension, I do consider this to be a completely unrealistic idea now and also in the foreseeable future. In my opinion, this debate has never taken place in the recent past. It doesn't make any sense to reopen it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U25	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U26	Prime Minister! In your statements, you have emphasised the successful foreign investments in Estonia in recent times. We saw a pretty high column today. What kind of euro-time foreign investment do you consider to be the most successful for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U27	It is difficult to highlight one foreign investment from all foreign investments made in Estonia. But I would first like to mention 500 investments that have come to Estonia from Finland. During the last year, 500 companies with Finns started operating in Estonia. To date, there are well over 4,000 companies, or more than 5,000 companies with Finnish participation are operating in Estonia. As has been said, just last year, we started operating 500 companies with Finnish participation. If you choose now the biggest investment, which one of the prerequisites for coming to Estonia has perhaps been Estonia joining the euro zone, then I would mention Ericsson's decision to buy a assembly plant in Tallinn. I am quite convinced that the good state of Estonian public finances and Estonia's accession to the euro area were among the reasons why Ericsson dared to make this purchase decision. For Estonia, it is undoubtedly a sign that big companies such as TeliaSonera and Ericsson trust our country so much that they invest very heavily here. It is a message to all other investors, to all other Swedes and Finns that Estonia is reliable, that there is a good business environment and that it is worth investing in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U28	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U29	Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for a meaningful report. There is hardly any reason to doubt that small countries can always gain more from cooperation than to lose, of course, provided that democratic countries cooperate. However, so that this ever-increasing cooperation does not give us unnecessary hesitation and doubts here in Estonia at home, I ask you once again to confirm that the increasing cooperation will not affect the taxation of the reinvested profits of companies working well in Estonia, that it does not jeopardise our ability to decide for ourselves what our personal income tax rate is, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U30	No, it's not. You know perfectly well that tax matters are the exclusive competence of the Member States in the European Union, and never will anyone, or we ourselves, dictate from Brussels what the rate of income tax will be in a Member State. There's no danger, there's no fear. We are in the European Union to cooperate with our partners. We are not there to fight with our partners. Nor does it pay in the public debate to create a form of such a struggle; no one should think that we are going to fight with our colleagues in the European Union. We still go to joint gatherings there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U31	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U32	Prime Minister! To begin with, I would like to acknowledge the consistent work of the Estonian state so far in strengthening the integrity of the European Union. As we can see, life has recently forced us to go from words to deeds, or to improve financial supervision. That's my question. If today we are already talking about a very real common fiscal policy thinking, a common policy, could you open up your personal vision to us or, indeed, what other European leaders have experienced at meetings, which policies should, in the long term, be harmonised in order for Europe to remain on this path of integrity in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U33	The issue was aimed at fiscal cooperation or coordination of fiscal policies, i.e. budgetary cooperation. Since ancient times, there is a Stability and Growth Pact in the European Union. That pact provides for certain rules to be followed by the Member States. We have the most well-known government deficit rule of these rules. The criterion provides that the deficit may not exceed 3% of the Member State's gross domestic product each year. Another very well-known and important rule for us, which is, unfortunately, massively violated in Europe, is the upper limit of the public debt burden. The Stability and Growth Pact has agreed that the public debt burden of any Member State should not exceed 60% of gross domestic product. Yes, there are certain exceptions because, by the time the agreement was concluded, some countries had a government debt ratio of more than 60% of GDP, but these countries were subject to a gradual reduction in the government debt ratio. As I said yesterday from this speaker, throughout this global financial crisis, there were only two countries in the European Union that were not subject to excessive deficit procedures. These countries were Sweden and Estonia. There were two other countries which were subject to an excessive deficit procedure, but it was quickly discovered that there were not many grounds for doing so. There are between two and five countries with quite good finances that would have met all the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact throughout the crisis. Unfortunately, most countries in the European Union have not complied with the rules of the Pact during this crisis. At the same time, you can always think that if the rules are being broken, perhaps there are wrong rules and there is no point in complying with them. Unfortunately, all 27 European Union countries remain convinced that compliance with the rules by all Member States is essential for the smooth functioning of the European Union. Yes, if there are rules, but they are not complied with, even though compliance with them is essential, then we should focus on how to ensure compliance with the rules. And now we have agreed that there will be sanctions for ignoring the rules. These sanctions will also be accepted by all those who may be threatened by these sanctions in the near future. In the case of Estonia, there is no reason to talk about this now, because when it comes only to these two parameters, we have had a government deficit of more than 3% of GDP only in 1999 during the Russian-Asian crisis. Then it was 3.5%. In all other years, Estonia has either had a small deficit, or in almost half of the years we have completed our fiscal years with a surplus. General government debt in Estonia is the lowest in the European Union: 6.1% of gross domestic product. However, we, too, are very interested in ensuring that all the Member States of the European Union comply with their own commitments. This fiscal agreement should lead to no longer having committed violations of agreed rules in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U34	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U35	Prime Minister! Yesterday, in the European Union Affairs Commission, there was a presentation by Urmas Varblas, Professor of International Entrepreneurship, who spoke about Europe in the context of the development of the world economy. His presentation made it clear that this is not an old issue, that, according to comparisons, Europe is not the best place to invest or produce or to act innovatively. Asia is already giving out, and in the future, even more. Since Estonia has been working with the European Union for many years and you, as Prime Minister, have been involved in this process, I ask you what you think of this point. Secondly, which country or countries currently have the most innovative ideas in the European Union and where is the greatest willingness to make more progress in competition with Asia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U36	If I wanted to raise my tail now, I'd say from Estonia. But I'm sure that would be half-sister. Indeed, it can be said that it is more beneficial to invest in Asia or elsewhere. If we are talking about an Estonian investor, I would recommend investing in Estonia. Investment growth in Estonia is guaranteed, there is a favourable business environment and a common market for the European Union is open for Estonia, where 70% of our exports go. It is now said that, as the European economy grows slowly, Estonian investors should not look at Europe at all. They could look somewhere further, for example, in Asia. Everybody's looking at Asia! But I say that in Europe, Estonian entrepreneurs and also Estonian labour force are still very competitive for a long time. We have received significant foreign investments, in particular from our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland. These investments have been very rewarding for investors, and they have also been extremely useful for the people of Estonia. These investments have given the people of Estonia jobs; our entrepreneurs have also earned profits from European markets. This good position of Estonia's competitiveness remains long enough. Many investors in Estonia have thought that the boom that was in Estonia will certainly come elsewhere after a while. Unfortunately, many of these investors have lost their investments that they have made elsewhere in this hope. We have read about real estate developments somewhere in Azerbaijan, for example, which have not been profitable, we have read about gold mines somewhere in Armenia, which has also not brought the promised income to Estonian entrepreneurs. Estonian entrepreneurs have lost their money, which has been invested merely in the hope that the major developments that have taken place in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania will also take place elsewhere with our former counterparts. They're lost. Hopes have not been fulfilled and these investors have lost their money. Europe is competitive. If the investor is thinking only of the cheapness of the labour force and does not consider social standards to be important, environmental standards, then Europe is not a favourable investment place. Then you can really look somewhere else for something really cheap. If the investor is thinking of sustainable development, sustainable development, then the countries with the highest wages in Europe, such as Luxembourg, Sweden, Finland and many other countries, are also ideally suited for investment. Once again: I recommend that Estonian investors invest in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U37	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U38	Prime Minister! You devoted much of your speech to financial and economic issues, which is, of course, inevitable. I guess our public debate has been focused on this. You asked in your speech what democratic control should be over the implementation of these measures, but unfortunately this question was left unanswered in your speech. Here's my question. What is the position of the government, whether the development of the European Union simply requires more effective implementation of existing financial and economic policy management measures, or whether the growing problem is that the gap between the opinions of the citizens of the European Union and the political decisions of the European Union is getting worse and thus reducing the legitimacy of these decisions? Do you think that's a problem? What changes does the government think are needed in the political governance of the European Union to bridge this gap?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U39	Trende's kind of like that. In the case of Estonia, it cannot be said that there is some kind of gap between citizens and the European Union, which is getting worse or growing. Public opinion studies do not confirm this. Eurobarometer surveys confirm the opposite: the confidence of the Estonian people in the European Union institutions remains strong. The confidence of Estonian people in the euro, for example, has increased, contrary to the expectations of many sceptics, according to Eurobarometer surveys: 71% of Estonian people trust the euro. I would find similar graphic examples in a large number of other countries of the European Union. Therefore, I do not agree with this overall assessment of the growing public distrust of the European institutions in the European Union. I think that, in Western Europe in particular, this increase in confidence has been enhanced by very active action by the European Parliament. However, I admit, of course, that trust in all institutions, both our country's own and the institutions of the European Union, has been greatly undermined by economic instability. In the case of Estonia, if we really should transfer decision-making power to the level of joint decision-making, the Supreme Court has also said that it would need a new mandate for the people. And, of course, if such a time comes, we will also ask for this mandate. I have to say that, as head of government, I will not anticipate such developments in the near future, which could lead to a high degree of transfer of decision-making from the national state to the common level of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U40	Thank you very much. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U41	Prime Minister! Very quickly a reply in response to the question of Urve Tiidus. However, I think we should be a little bolder in developing our economy and supporting our export trends and think that the economy is growing not only in the European Union, but also further. Examples are, in fact, much better than those you have brought about Azerbaijan and Armenia. But to the question. For the first time in years, the government presented the word 'federal' or 'federal Europe' on several occasions. You also mentioned Mr Barroso's proposal on the Federation of National States. It would be quite interesting to know that Estonia should certainly take the lead in the closer integration of the European Union, what you, as Head of Government, think it should look like a federal Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U42	The good questioner himself realized that I used his figurative expression of sympathy for José Manuel Barroso, which included the term 'federation of the nation states'. I also said in my speech that terms can be defined differently. In essence, we all realise that if 1% of the national gross domestic product, or GNI, is collected in the budget, it is not possible to create any sort of Swiss-like federation with this budget. It's not working. At the same time, we know how difficult it is to keep the budget at an established level or how difficult it would be to increase it even slightly. These debates on the volume of the budget have taken away enough time, to my regret, which could have been spent discussing the European Union's substantive objectives. I remember quite well the negotiations in the last budget period. That was in 2005. We finally agreed on a financial perspective for the years 2007 to 2013. We spent an enormous amount of time arguing about the volume of the budget. Net contributors suggested that 1.03% of gross domestic product could be allocated to the budget. Others argued that this was too little to achieve the objectives set and that it would be correct to produce 1.06% of total production. We argued, the arguments lasted days and nights. Finally, the Council agreed: 1.045% of the GNI will go to the budget. Then the budget went to the European Parliament, and the European Parliament also decided that there must be some kind of 'no' right to see that 1.045% of the GNI is clearly too few. They then decided to set the budget at 1.05% of the total production of the national economies. That's right. These disputes were very intense and heated and took away enough valuable time, which could have taken on the debate on the achievement of the European Union and all of our objectives. In view of this context, I do not consider it possible for the people to be prepared to talk about a minimum of even ten times the budget, but for the Federation, the budget should be increased at least twenty times, or even maybe thirty times, under European conditions. It's not real. If anyone here fears the emergence of some kind of great alliance or unitary Europe, then this fear is completely unwarranted, such a union is far from reality. No one, including Mr Barroso, who has spoken of the Federation of National States, has obviously had such desires, never. However, I do not want to hurt myself or my colleagues who argued about the volume of the new budget plan seven years ago. It is easy to reduce this dispute merely as a dispute that was considered to be over the money of several percent is quite right. In fact, the money was not the most important thing for very many arguers. The most important thing was the philosophy that we want with this money. If the objectives are correct, in this case too, it would hardly be a huge problem for the German Chancellor if we had to pay, I do not know, 0.27% of our budget in order for the European Union to really be stronger and just as the German taxpayer wants to see. It is still a question, even when it comes to the sums of money, to a large extent in philosophy, the aims of what Europe we want.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U43	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U44	Such 'no' or 'yes' questions are easy to ask, but relatively difficult to answer. As I have said before in the dissecting of the financial transaction tax, this is not a trivial issue that can be answered either or yes, without explaining who this financial transaction tax covers, what the rates will be, what transactions will be affected by this tax, etc. You understand perfectly that until these questions and so many others, which I have not now asked from this speaker, are unanswered, no one, including you, can answer this question either yes or yes. We certainly want to go along with this initiative, but we are not interested in burdening retail banking consumers with an additional tax. The financial transaction tax, as proposed by the European Union, the European Commission, had to take the form of a tax on transactions between financial institutions, large banks, in particular. However, it is now quite clear that among the 27 Member States, the concept of a financial transaction tax proposed by the European Commission has not received and does not receive consensus approval. Some Member States are categorically opposed to this tax. Certainly, the FTT should not discourage savings, for example, the collection of pension funds for the future, but should not be subject to additional taxation. On the other hand, it has to be recognised that banking, especially the most risky transactions that are almost not carried out in Estonia, is undertaxed compared to other economic activities. In many Western European countries, simple people demand justice and equality. It must not be the case that, if the banks are profitable, the profits belong to bankers and bank managers, and this is also reflected in the huge salaries of bank managers, but if the banks are loss-making, then the losses are public and national. Such injustices have been felt a lot in many European countries, and the idea of a tax on financial transactions is largely a reflection of this sense of injustice. In the case of Estonia, we do not blame our banks. We do not think that the banks have caused the crisis. But we don't have any profits like that at any other bank. The situation is therefore different from one Member State to another. We want to be among the negotiators. We do not just want to be in the role of choosing, as I said in my speech, either to drag behind or to fall behind, perhaps to join the package that others have agreed on in our place, or to say that we will not join it. It is better to be among the negotiators, to be among the policy makers, to be among the shapers of the future of the European Union than to stay out of the debate and then finally decide whether or not to join what others are offering.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U45	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U46	Prime Minister! In difficult situations, a common information field is very important. Thank you very much for today's long and thorough answers. The website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs contains "Gondor's chronicle," direct information about what is happening in Brussels. You rightly ended your answer to the previous question by saying that it is very important not to be a cheater but to be a policy-maker. I am interested in what the government intends to do in the future in order for more and more Estonian people to feel that they are also policy makers, that they are not catch-ups, that they are well informed about what is going on in the European Union, what the state and government, the Riigikogu are doing to make Estonian citizens equal in the European Union, feel equally and involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U47	It's not an easy question to ask. It is not just to shape a government or a prime minister, nor is it how the people perceive Estonia in the European Union and how the people perceive the decisions made in the European Union. Thanks to the ESM, the topics of the European Union have also become more understandable for the Estonian people. Before these hot debates, a lot of people took it in a way that was guaranteed that there was a European Union and that Estonia was also part of it, but these issues were not particularly addressed. Maybe there's been too much understanding that what it means to me, to a simple person, I can't get anything out of it. I think that thanks to the ESM debates, many people have come to understand that the European Union is the one that has the job, thanks to which many roads are being built in Estonia, etc. This sense of being in a single European Union space and being in the euro area has recently grown considerably. I have pointed out a number of data from the Eurobarometer survey in response to an earlier question. They confirm that the situation has not deteriorated, but, in fact, Estonia has gained more understanding of what is happening in the European Union recently than in other European Union countries. I could also refer to a survey of the functioning and satisfaction of the public administration of the Eurobarometer, according to which the Estonian people's assessment of the functioning of their national administration is seventh in the European Union. Imagine: Luxembourg, Germany, Sweden, Finland and a few other very rich countries ahead, and then seventh place Estonia at the same time! In my opinion, this is one major drawback in our social science approach of taking one tea and starting to spin around it and not putting it or the components it contains in the overall context of the European Union. You know that the Riigikogu of Estonia, even much cursed, is well above average credibility in the context of the European Union. Our government is also much more reliable than the European Union average. I don't remember exactly the Estonian government in this ranking, whether we were seventh or eighth, but this place was pretty good. And even our political parties, who are very much cursed and criticised, are far more reliable than the European average. This does not mean that we do not have any room for improvement, just because there is room for improvement. I also praised the Estonian press in my speech. I am quite convinced that the Estonian press is dealing with European issues much more professionally than it was years ago. That's not just a compliment. I don't have to compliment the press because they've chosen me as an enemy of the press, and I don't need to be praised. But I do acknowledge them, they have done a very good job. All of us can do more to bring European issues closer to the people. But I am convinced that some good things have already been done in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U48	It could, but it's not realistic. For the historical reasons already mentioned, almost half of the European Union's common budget is a budget for the common agricultural policy. But, as has been said, this budget is, in fact, a very small budget given the gross domestic product of the countries and the size of the budgets. No one should think that the European Union budget can, to a very large extent, shape the economic environment and policies of the European Union or of the Member States. The financing of research and development must remain in the future when speaking about Estonia, the task of our state and also the task of the Estonian private sector. From time to time, we forget how big this budget for the European Union is, what it comes from, and how much money we pay there. Somehow, there are expectations that this budget will be bottomless. Keep taking it, don't put it. But it's taxpayers' money, just like our own budget money. As much as we put in there, that's how much we can essentially take from there. We can take more from the European Union budget, because net contributors, they are Germans or Finns or Swedes, put more than they should. But changing proportions is on the agenda. I very much hope that the next budget for 2014‐2020 will be more geared towards achieving the Europe 2020 objectives. There are also 'Horizon 2020' objectives that directly concern R &amp; D. They must also play an important role in the next budget of the European Union. It is very important to me that this next budget is aimed at building cross-border infrastructure projects. If the European Union budget is viewed only as some source of money from which the use of money is completely free for a Member State, then I think it is not a very wise fiscal policy. There is no point in collecting money and then giving it back to the payers relatively equally. It would make sense to use this money to bring Europe more together. Estonia's most important foreign policy objective over the past 20 years has been to join all kinds of international organisations and institutions. We have done quite well to achieve this goal. Estonia has joined the European Union, NATO, the OECD, we are in the Schengen area, we are in the euro zone, etc. More attention should now be paid to physical infrastructure: energy connections, roads, railways. When we look at Europe's map of roads, railways, we do not, in principle, see very big differences compared to the European map of 20 years ago. I went to Kazakhstan a month ago. I was accompanied by a number of our entrepreneurs who are able to successfully sell their products in Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and elsewhere in remote Central Asia. Unfortunately, many of these companies say that they are competitive with their production in Finland, Sweden, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland (repo Vabrik are specifically talking about), but, for example, Germany is no longer competitive. The cost of transport by road is so high that in Germany and beyond in Western Europe, due to the lack of rail transport alone, it is not possible to remain competitive in the market. The common European market is a great value for us, but we cannot seriously talk about a common free market for Europe in all areas of life if we do not have connections to realise our goods throughout the market. Connecting Europe should be the most important objective of the next budget, at least from Estonia's point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U49	Good Prime Minister! When it comes to the future of the European Union, more and more talk is being made about the euro zone, whatever it is. When you take your speech today, you too have focused on fiscal problems and on the issues of the euro area. It is true that in your answers you have broadened this issue and talked about the fundamental principles of the European Union and also said that it would be good if we could move forward either 27 or 28. If we are trying to think about the future in this debate on the future of the European Union today, what are you forecasting: in two or three years' time, the European Union will be 27+ or 27
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U50	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U51	Good Prime Minister! Not all 17 countries in the euro area agree on the future of the euro area. Your Slovak colleague, for example, sees the future of the euro zone in very black colors, nor can it be seen today that new countries are joining the euro zone. Poland, for example, has said that the eurozone can handle its debts first, and then we are thinking about joining the euro zone. I ask: when will the next country of the European Union join the euro zone and, as a positive example, could Estonia be an inspiration?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U52	I hope that the next member of the euro zone will be Latvia. Latvia has now come out of the deep crisis, they have done a very good job, and according to what I know, Latvia already met all the Maastricht criteria that are necessary to join the euro area last month. I am very convinced that Latvia would certainly win the euro, but the decision is, of course, for the Latvian Government to make. From Estonia's point of view, Latvia and Lithuania would be very welcome to join the euro zone. I am quite sure that the other countries that are members of the European Union will once again consider it necessary to join the euro area. Pessimist, skeptical statements apply to politics. Sometimes they are justified, sometimes not very objective. Therefore, I would not take such statements into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U53	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U54	Good Prime Minister! In your presentation, you repeatedly stressed that Estonia and, in general, the members of the European Union have two ways: either to go along with a Europe that increases cooperation, as Mr Barroso calls, with a federation of nation states, or to stay out of it. I have a question: what would this exclusion mean in an institutional sense? In the European Union, could there be some kind of connection or group in addition to the Union for the euro area, or does this mean that the roads of countries that do not want to go with them will separate with the European Union? What would that mean for these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U55	Since Estonia was planning to enter the European Union, we have been following debates about the two-speed European Union and later have participated in them. These debates will get more momentum once again, and they will retreat again. But debate usually doesn't come from anything, there are particular reasons why they happen. Today, we see that many countries, mostly eurozone countries, are ready to cooperate more closely, are prepared for deeper cooperation, others are either intuitively or consciously trying to isolate, separate from others. I am very pleased that in this time of economic crisis, the euro and the strength of the Union have obviously not created many protectionist barriers in the European Union, which would have protected some Member States from other partners. This is one of the greatest achievements of the euro, as well as of the European Union, one of the clear proofs that both the eurozone and the European Union have been good initiatives. At the same time, we see certain fatigue and boredom. Some want to move forward faster, they either have some clear incentives to move forward faster, or they need to do so, while others may well satisfy the current situation for economic reasons. Estonia is certainly among those who want to plan a common future for the European Union. We are ready to work in depth with those who want to work more closely together, and of course we want to see the European Union as a united future, not as two groups that move forward at different speeds. However, it is not justified to want those who want to move forward faster to wait all the time for those who are hindering progress. Different philosophical attitudes towards the European Union are also met at Prime Ministers' level. In some countries, there is talk of 'I think they are wrong' if they say so, but so it has been argued that the only reason for some countries to join the European Union was to get money from the Cohesion Fund. It is, in principle, completely unacceptable to us that aid should be the most important basis for European Union cooperation. After all, we all want to become net contributors quickly, we want our economy to grow quickly. What, then, would that mean for those who think that the only reason for membership of the European Union is money from Brussels? Once wealthy, will they step out? It is not possible to describe the sentiment of the people in different countries very unambiguously. Yesterday, on the question of Marianne Mikko, I have already said that the European Union is primarily a security project for Estonia. The European Union was created as a peace-building project, and for Estonia peace-building is still the most important reason why we joined the European Union and want to be there. As far as the economic project is concerned, 70% of our exports go to the European Union. That's where we produce or get our profits. Without any protectionist barriers, we can sell our goods and services on the European Union markets. This is what gives the people of Estonia jobs and bread. Of course, we are extremely grateful for the support from the various European Union funds. We are very proud of our order in public finances, but we must honestly admit that these same conditions of the Stability and Growth Pact were met during the crisis in Estonia because we used the European Union's resources even more efficiently than before. At the same time, I will never agree to say that the European Union's aid is what Estonia should be in the European Union for. No! For security reasons, we need to be in the European Union, and also for the sake of the single market, Estonia has the utmost benefit of being in the European Union. So public opinion varies from country to country. Some countries are still in very serious difficulties and are characterised by the same problems, others have successfully exited the crisis, they have other objectives and ambitions, third countries have unexpectedly faced a relatively financial disadvantage because some countries in the euro area are in crisis. So everyone has special interests, even though everyone belongs to the European Union. But we would like to move forward in cooperation with those who want to cooperate in greater depth. However, it is certainly also our interest for the European Union to remain united with its current 27 members and, in the future, with 28 Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U56	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U57	Mr. Prime Minister! I fully understand your real political scepticism about the prospects for a significant change in the common agricultural policy. This will not be changed, although this industry would in itself be quite competitive if food prices were to continue. Human inertia is probably playing along here. But what if we set aside the stronger drive and opportunities for R &amp; D needed to boost Europe's global competitiveness? What do you think these perspectives are? Could the proportions between support for agriculture and support for R &amp; D change significantly in this new financial perspective? Is that a realistic perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U58	Prime Minister! The Alliance of Democrats and a good colleague, Inara Luigas, have repeatedly raised the issue of introducing a tax on financial transactions in this Chamber. You said in your speech today that the decision on whether Estonia is imposing such a tax is still ahead. I have such a simple question: do you personally, as Mr Ansip, and if the Prime Minister supports this introduction of a tax on financial transactions or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U59	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U60	Prime Minister! Speaking of the future and deeper integration of the European Union, the role of the parliaments cannot be overcome or changed, in particular, I am thinking at the moment of the role of the European Parliament. Have you also had talks with European leaders about the future of the European Parliament and its position in decision-making and legitimisation? Let us be honest, a simple person on the street does not understand the role of the European Parliament at the moment. The work of the members of the European Parliament can be seen more in Chronicle than in the serious press. What do you think the role of the European Parliament will be in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U61	In answering one question, it is certainly not possible to clarify the role of the European Parliament, either now or in the future. Marianne Mikko is probably ready to devote days and weeks and months to tell her fellow members of the Riigikogu about the role of the European Parliament. In my view, the role of the European Parliament is very important. I am convinced that thanks to the European Parliament, but just as thanks to the European Commission, the interests of smaller countries will be much more protected if they were protected if these institutions were not in the European Union. The role of the European Parliament in the future can only be strengthened. I do not see any rational point in reducing Parliament's role in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U62	Thank you very much. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U63	The European External Action Service (EEAS) pursues common external policy objectives. These goals, be it said, are also Estonia's objectives, because the foreign policy of the European Union is in Estonia's interest. Speaking of Estonian people, Estonian diplomats, Estonian highly qualified state officials are disproportionate to our population in both the European Union's External Action Service and the European Union's institutions. Estonian specialists have been in competition for various positions, you can say, too successful. We have had to give up many of our good specialists, good diplomats for the benefit of the European institutions. At the same time, I believe that they are all doing the European thing there, but they are probably also referring to the interests of their fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U64	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U65	Prime Minister! If we are talking today about an increase in national debts, it can be said that they are largely correlated with an increase in energy prices. What are the European Union's plans to slow down energy prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U66	I do not agree with passing on to the content of the external side of this process. When energy prices have increased and public debt has increased, I see no causal link whatsoever. Energy has also increased in Estonia, but our debt burden has not increased. Compared to the period before the boom, debt has decreased despite the fact that energy prices have doubled in the meantime. There's no causal link. Energy prices are developing on the global market, not shaped by Europe. There is oil in Europe, but relatively few, and even if there were more, the price would still be on the world market. In Europe, we can do something else to keep energy prices lower: we can create energy interconnections so that Europe can also operate in the energy sector. It must be emphasised again that this is a particularly important issue for Estonia also in terms of the price of electricity. As we know, thanks to Baltic Energy Market Connection Plan money, we can build another cable that connects Estonia and Finland. This is Estlink 2. Finland and Estonia have received 100 million euros from the European Union budget to build this second cable. The first cable, as we know, is 350 megawatts, the second cable comes in 650 megawatts, that's 1,000 megawatts. And when we are connected to the energy market in Finland and other Nordic countries by 1000 megawatts, we can happily say that Estonia is no longer an isolated island in the European Union. This association is very important for Estonia. Many have asked why Estonia is joining the free market, going to free market prices before this link is ready. The reason is very simple: no one, albeit Finns, would have been willing to invest in Estlink 2 cable if there were no decision at law level that the Estonian electricity market would be a free market. This was a prerequisite for investment. Ultimately, the free market, the big common market, also provides the cheapest price in competition. Once markets are closed, it is possible to keep prices down administratively for a short period of time, but in the long term investments must be made and the price of a captive market cannot be lower than the price of an open market in free competition. Typically, cheap prices, in any manufacturing sector, can be short-term and can be achieved at the expense of depreciation costs, non-collection of depreciation funds, and once this leads to a significant reduction in security of supply. The gas market is in exactly the same situation. A number of directives on the energy sector have been adopted in the European Union. The third directive also talks about the need to separate the owner of the infrastructure and the seller of the gas in the gas market. It is a tried and tested method in Europe. This will certainly guarantee the cheapest price for the consumer. With its common regulations, but also its investments, the European Union can make energy prices a more friendly, acceptable direction for the consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U67	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U68	Prime Minister! My question concerns plans to establish a banking union. The context, as we know, is that the Estonian market is mainly in the hands of Swedish banks and Sweden is rather opposed to this plan, but we are in favour of it. How does this look to you in the near future: what are our options and what will it become?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U69	The Banking Association is a long-term goal. In the near future, the aim is one of its parts: a well-functioning cross-border supervisory system. The Banking Union should also cover single deposits, deposit insurance, and should also include common crisis management mechanisms. However, we realise that these great goals cannot be achieved quickly. Several countries in the European Union would like to establish a banking union in a single act, to receive all the mechanisms for both inspection and deposit guarantee and crisis management at the same time. Many argue that these components, taken individually, are not effective or not feasible at all. I don't share that view. I believe that the implementation of financial supervision, the establishment of an appropriate institution, is feasible separately and certainly necessary for the European Union. This is certainly necessary in isolation for the euro area, but I also consider it necessary to implement effective financial supervision for the European Union as a whole. We know that our banks, they are the daughter banks of Swedish or Danish banks, are still Estonian banks, because they operate on the basis of Estonian laws and other regulations. These Estonian banks are well capitalised and have good reserves. During the crisis, Estonian commercial banks were doing well. Estonia did not have to spend taxpayers' money to help our commercial banks out of trouble. Estonia was among the eight countries of the European Union where taxpayers' money did not have to be spent to save banks. Unfortunately, in most countries of the European Union, this had to be done and, sad to say, but it will probably take taxpayers' money to save banks in some countries in the near future. We could try to lock up and say that we have things in order, that we are not affected by pan-European banking supervision. But that is not the case, because we feel every day that the crisis in other countries of the European Union affects our daily lives. We are very interested in the euro being stable in order for the European Union to be financially stable, and for this to happen, cross-border banking supervision is absolutely necessary to ensure stability both within the euro area and within the European Union at large. At the same time, we also have questions about how, for example, a single deposit insurance will take place. We still have a relatively effective uniform deposit insurance system; we have had very good cross-border cooperation with both Finland and Sweden. During the crisis, cooperation in banking cooperation and banking supervision between Estonia and Sweden was very effective. When it comes to common deposit insurance, the deposit guarantee system throughout the European Union, what does that mean for us? Should we first join the deposit insurance provided under this same banking union and then make a second contribution to the regional deposit insurance that we have worked so far? It's like I don't want to pay twice. Therefore, if we are to establish a banking union, we should be very clear from the beginning about what will be the cooperation between the Member States of the banking union and the non-banking countries. However, once again, the creation of a well-functioning supervision across borders is not, in my opinion, linked to other banking union functions such as deposit insurance and crisis management mechanisms. The Estonian banks certainly do not fear that a strict inspector will come from somewhere and say that you have a bad story in the bank. However, I am convinced that no commercial bank in the whole of the European Union should be a priori sure that under any circumstances it will not be threatened by bankruptcy or liquidation, no matter how bad credit decisions it has made. There must be a possibility that there will be an impartial, competent, authoritative supervisor and that if you violate them, they and these standards, and if you do not correct the mistakes made by some deadline, the bank must be closed. This is the fear that some banks feel, and they have reason to do so. In my opinion, it is from countries where banks are not as strong as they are in Estonia or Sweden that proposals to postpone an effective supervisory system are coming, proposals à la we will do everything together in the distant future, we will do a monitoring mechanism with a crisis management mechanism, deposit guarantee schemes. We would like to move forward step by step and, in this sense, we support this common effective supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U70	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U71	Of course, we would be more interested in having our common budget allocated to R &amp; D and innovation. But I have already referred to the story, history, of the formation of the European Union in answering questions today. Significant direct payments to agriculture in a large number of countries have also been recorded in this history. The dilemma of spending money, either on agriculture or on innovation and science, is not new. Such choices are usually made when budgetary negotiations are held. Seven years ago, it was exactly the same question. Some countries are calling for agricultural subsidies to be reduced and for R &amp; D expenditure to be increased. Other countries say that some kind of social justice must be preserved. Industrialised countries sell their produce to us without any hindrance, and we had such an agreement when we joined the Union that, in return, our agriculture would be subsidised, both nationally and from the common budget of the European Union. Such support for farmers is not an unfair legacy of any kind; it has been precisely the fairest solution to form an alliance. This time has gone a long way, and I repeat what I said before: Estonian farmers could do perfectly without any direct payments, but only on condition that others also do not receive public aid for agricultural production. However, this second most important condition, this non-payment of aid to others, is not politically feasible. We must therefore stand up for our farmers and demand that they be treated equally or more equally with other farmers in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U72	Certainly 27+, because Croatia's accession has been decided by both the Croatian people and those who accept Croatia into the European Union. The Riigikogu has also made this decision. The European Union is growing, but how fast this growth is going to be is an issue in itself, and I do not dare to make any predictions about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U73	Thank you very much. I appreciate the Prime Minister's frankness in answering European policy questions and I hope that he will genuinely answer my question as well. I must admit that, as deputy head of the European Union Affairs Commission, I am always in a schizophrenic situation. I don't understand exactly why I have to meet high officials in our country. After all, ELAK has been invited to take a position on whether or not to give the ministers of the Republic of Estonia a mandate before going to Brussels. But what about those ministers who are lazy to come for the mandate or even more will avoid working in the Council of Ministers in Brussels? What to do with those ministers who are not standing up for Estonia in Brussels?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U74	Good Marianne, there are no lazy ministers in my cabinet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U75	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U76	Prime Minister! We are talking about strengthening the European Union's links, deepening integration, but above all, we are doing so with a view to economic and monetary policy. For Estonia, however, foreign and security policy is also very important. You yourself said that for security reasons, it is important for Estonia to deepen the cooperation of the European Union. What is Estonia doing to make the European Union's common foreign and security policy a reality? For example, how could our relations with Russia develop in this light?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U77	The European Union's common security and foreign policy is already a reality. There is now a place of choice, whether to deepen cooperation in defence policy to an even greater extent or to limit it to the level of cooperation that has already been achieved. I would see better cooperation between NATO and the European Union in the future. We should avoid fragmentation of our instruments and duplication of certain functions. There is certainly still much room for further development of defence cooperation between the countries of the European Union. I am pleased that, within the framework of the European Union, cooperation between Nordic battle groups, for example, is working. But there is still plenty of room for improvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U78	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U79	Prime Minister! There are many challenges in the European Union. One very clear and major problem is mainly through Greece and Italy, earlier through Malta and Spain arrived 10,000 or more immigrants per month. They come for various reasons, mainly because the crisis has also affected the EU's neighbouring countries and the situation in so-called third countries is even worse. It is clear that borders do not keep indefinitely and, for example, through Turkey, people are dripping quite a lot. What do you think can be proposed in the European Union as solutions to this issue? Are you trying to close the border, or do you have better ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U80	There is probably no doubt on the questioner's part that various measures need to be taken. Better border surveillance, more effective control of migration will remain a challenge for long years to come. However, I consider it equally important to provide development aid to those countries from which, for economic or political reasons, large-scale migrations to the countries of the European Union, including illegally. There is not one one one-way solution here, but one must act in a number of areas and at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U81	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U82	Prime Minister! Some of the questions have already sounded on this subject, which is somewhat inspired by the gatherings and discussions that my penguinmate Taavi Rõivas has recently initiated in the Riigikogu. We have discussed the future of the European Union. Yesterday, there was a particularly interesting meeting, a bit of a referendum. Academic Urmas Varblane told us very exciting things about Europe. Actually, there's a lot to know about this, just we haven't looked at these things in this connection. On the one hand, food prices have doubled in the last 20 years, and on the other hand, EU agricultural subsidies are ten times higher than subsidies for the development of research and innovation. Now we are going to write a letter calling for an increase in agricultural subsidies. Couldn't Estonia be with Baltic friends, on the contrary, in the position that we propose to lower agricultural subsidies in Europe to our level and use the rest of the money for research, innovation and education as a contribution to the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U83	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U84	Mr Prime Minister! Yesterday, there was a great deal of talk in this Chamber about our tax systems and other European tax systems. Today, the Estonian Päevaleht has highlighted the problem that European countries support VAT differences, including in the case of foodstuffs. If we have dealt with this issue in previous years, we have also heard from you that Europe is increasingly moving towards losing these differences. But in Malta and Great Britain, for example, VAT on food is still 0%, in Ireland some food, etc. The picture's exactly the same. Do you think that we should not, however, consider such a European, more consumer-friendly tax policy? I think that people still expect concrete results from the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U85	No, this is not a very European thing if VAT is differentiated. Yesterday I said from this speaker that VAT is a very different economic and also social policy objective. In the United Kingdom, for example, it would not be possible to apply a uniform VAT rate; there are very many differences. This is because of the traditions of the country, which the people of the country certainly respect and care about. If either the OECD or the European Commission proposes that we further reduce VAT differences, we will discuss these proposals. We have reduced VAT differences in order to make our tax system even simpler, more transparent and more understandable to the taxpayer. It is self-deception if some believe that, for example, lowering the VAT rate on foodstuffs will lower prices. It is more of a measure to support their farmers nationally than a measure to make food prices more consumer-friendly. You mentioned Ireland. In Ireland, the value added tax (VAT) on foodstuffs is 0%. However, if you look at Eurostat's price comparison, the most expensive food in the European Union is precisely Ireland. It is merely a dream that when the VAT rate is reduced, prices will fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U86	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U87	Prime Minister! In the last seven years, we have come much closer to another Europe with GDP growth. Currently, Estonia stands at 62% of the European Union's average GDP per capita. We will get more help in the next financial period to catch up with Europe. Do you think we can reach this magical 75% of the average GDP by 2020? And when can we actually catch up with Europe with our GDP and wages so that people's emigration is reduced for economic reasons? Is it going to take one or two generations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U88	I'm an optimist by nature. I don't think it's gonna take a generation or more, a generation. 75% by 2020 will necessarily happen, and I firmly believe that. As you know, my goal is far more ambitious than 75% of the European Union's average. But we need to make sure that our economy grows quickly. We want the economies of other countries of the European Union to grow rapidly. But looking at statistics from different countries, comparing developments over ten years, we also see that in some countries, gross domestic product (GDP) has only increased by 1% over 10 years. There are only a few percent of these tumors. Of course, the global financial crisis, which still has a large number of European Union countries, is causing changes in all this growth trend. Predicting the volume of Estonia's gross domestic product, given that the behaviour of the rest of the world is difficult to predict for us, is a relatively ungrateful job. But once again: last year our economy grew by 8.3%, this year growth is more modest, but I am sure that Estonia's economic growth will also be among the first in the European Union this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U89	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U90	Mr. Prime Minister! One area where the European Union has recently worked more closely has been a common foreign policy. What has been the role of the Estonian state and Estonian government in shaping the foreign policy of the European Union? Do we also have any foreign policy goals in mind within this common foreign policy, and what can we expect from the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U91	Thank you. Personally, I am in favour of cooperation in any case. In addition to the regional Baltic Sea Strategy, there are many other formats for cooperation. The European Union Affairs Commission has very close cooperation with colleagues from Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. This is because we have an exceptionally large number of common issues to deal with in Europe, and we have very clear common interests. We do not want to be an island isolated in the future, whether in terms of energy or transport connections. There are enough formats of such standing up for common interests, I believe, to have a wide range of opportunities for cooperation in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U92	Good fellows! Honourable performer! I'm sorry, but I think you'll have to go back to your seat for the next procedure! The President has received a letter from the Commission for European Union Affairs. The letter reads as follows: 'The European Union Affairs Committee asks today, on 9 October, for the plenary session of the Riigikogu to be extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. " The chairman of the commission, Taavi Kõivas, has signed. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the request of the European Union Affairs Committee that today's plenary session of 9 October be extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 57 members of the Riigikogu with 9 votes against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. Good fellows, let's move on. We're at the round of questions and answers. I am happy to give the floor to the Kalvi Hardy for the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U93	Thank you, Mr President. The good Chairman of the European Union Affairs Commission! My question is on single area payments. One might say that the members of the Riigikogu have been quite active on this subject. Our delegation to the Baltic Assembly has signed an appeal to the European Commission, while the Committee on Rural Affairs, together with the Latvian and Lithuanian parliamentary committees, has made an appeal to the European Commission and Parliament. Also, all Members of Parliament have been able to sign here in the Riigikogu during the action organised by Estonian agricultural umbrella organisations to support farmers. What was more surprising was yesterday's statement by the Minister of Agriculture that the Riigikogu could accept another appeal to the European Parliament. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U94	Thank you. The debate on this appeal is still ongoing in our group and perhaps it is not appropriate to adopt a final position. However, I will add to the statements you have mentioned to the repeated statements made by the Committee on European Union Affairs, together with the committees of other countries on European Union affairs, to the largest interparliamentary congress, to the COSAC meeting that will take place every semester, which will take place this Sunday. I believe that many of these statements have been made in Parliament. What is important is that we can explain clearly and clearly to our colleagues in our conversations why we think that equalising agricultural subsidies is a fair and right step, why it increases competition and how it is good for the whole of Europe, not just for Estonia. Perhaps it is worth repeating from time to time that we do not necessarily want all farmers to get more, but it is also appropriate for us to equalise in the direction of reducing subsidies at the top peaks a little. This, too, actually increases equality and competition, and that is what we want. But on the statement by the Minister for Agriculture, we will certainly shape our position. It is a decision-making place, whether another statement is needed, or whether it is enough for all of us, when we meet our colleagues, whether we belong to the opposition or coalition, to talk about these issues as actively as possible in all formats. In fact, the position of the other national parliaments also depends very much on what the next seven-year budgetary plan will eventually be. I am very pleased that the difference between opinions in the Riigikogu does not run along the coalition and opposition line on these issues. We all believe that issues relating to the national interests of Estonia must be taken together. I think that every time we travel in the European Union or meet with our colleagues, it is a sacred duty for all of us to do so, because our constituents expect us to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U95	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U96	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! My question concerns the European Union's CO2 quota policy. We know that now begins the next period of distribution and trading. The draft of the Estonian state budget for the following year provides that 23 or 27 million euros of revenue will come from the quotas. Do you think that, given the current price of CO2 quotas, EUR 27 million is real, given the huge fall in prices and the efforts that the European Union is trying to make to keep this market together somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U97	Thank you. I would be honest to say that this does not belong to a series of issues on which the European Union Affairs Commission would have been informed of an expert opinion of an equivalent level, as is known, for example, to the committee to which you belong, a good colleague, even though we are forced to consider ourselves experts or at least specialists on a very large number of topics that are at issue in Europe. I think my personal conviction doesn't give any important extra weight to the expertise that you know the results of. I would rather not answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U98	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, You referred to the health sector in your presentation, namely, the export of health services. It is really very right that it would bring more work and extra money to our health care, which is very positive. But it takes two-way readiness. First of all, we need to be prepared in Estonia to be able to serve people and to have people with infrastructure and language skills, until then that we also have to be able to bill each patient. However, the other side, i.e. the countries from which this service is to be consumed, must be ready. Their health care systems must be ready to be provided elsewhere and paid for elsewhere. Can you explain what our actions are to ensure that other countries are prepared to send their patients here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U100	Thank you for your question and thank you for your compliments. All the topics that Estonia has a direct interest in with Russia are certainly one of them, which is where we should be talking. But we know very well that Estonia is not conducting its visa policy alone, but we are part of the Schengen area. On the other hand, there are very clear criteria that should be met in order to discuss visa relief with the Schengen area at all or to go further with it. I think that, as in many other matters, Estonia is quite specific about meeting and monitoring the criteria here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U101	Thank you. I very much hope that there will never again be a substantive question of whether there is peace in Europe or not. It is therefore extremely good that the challenges facing the European Union in this sense differ significantly from those that were decades ago. As regards the debate on the future of the European Union in the Riigikogu, we have had two introductory debates so far, where we have tried to formulate possible questions to which we should have an answer, in the context of what kind of Europe Estonia wants. These issues certainly include the functioning of the European Union, both in the context of the democratic decision-making process and in the context of the institutions, the authorities and all this. In a sense, we already opened this subject at yesterday's session, where two professors of law introduced possible development scenarios. But exactly when and how detailed we are about these issues will certainly depend on the Members of the Commission and on the way forward. What is the decision-making process in the European Union and how the European Union is managed is certainly one of the issues that we also want to answer on behalf of the Estonian Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U102	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. A statement was already made at the beginning of the debate, which at first sight seems to be somewhat controversial. I want to ask you how it really is. It was claimed that the more European countries, including Estonia, are moving towards the Federation in terms of the European Union, the more the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture, as well as the independent Estonian state, brought into the preamble of the Estonian Constitution, has been ensured.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U104	Thank you. As I said, belonging to Europe primarily means belonging to a common value area. The Government of the Republic formulated Estonia's European Union policy a little more than a year ago, where it is quite clear which cooperation and which competences we consider appropriate to deepen. I believe, rather, that European cooperation is not just about giving up independence, as the most sceptical people are trying to show, but it is actually about gaining a huge amount of independence and decision-making. It is a decision-making power over a much bigger world than our Estonia, and this cooperation, whether in economic, linguistic or cultural matters, is certainly important for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U105	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I, too, thank you for your information and your thorough preparation. My question is based on the Prime Minister's words that, in the simplest sense, the overhaul of the European Economic and Monetary Union is under way, and in order to take these decisions, decisions must be taken at a higher level, i.e. in the European Parliament. The reform of the European Parliament's electoral system, whose keywords have been redistribution of seats, transnational lists, election day, election age, etc., has also been discussed at various stages. What is the position of the Commission on European Union Affairs? Have you discussed this? How can we proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U107	Thank you. The correct answer is that the Committee on European Union Affairs has not discussed any possible changes to the European Parliament's election system. Therefore, I am not in a position to respond on behalf of the whole Commission. But personally, I would be careful about any very big changes that could take decision beyond the Estonian person, for example. We certainly don't want that. However, what we have discussed very much in the Committee on European Union Affairs and will certainly continue to discuss is how to keep the decision-making process within Estonia and the involvement in European Union matters as effective and effective as possible. I believe that Estonia's opportunities to contribute to European decisions are the strongest through government ministers and their mandate, which they have received from Parliament. I am a convinced supporter of the European Union's governance in this direction, but, as I said, this is not the Commission's official position, because we have not dealt very thoroughly with the issue of the election of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U108	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Estonia has been extremely cooperative and constructive in resolving the issues of the European Union. In his speech, the Prime Minister stressed that we intend to be like this in the future. However, the reality is that discussions on debt resolution between the southern and the northern countries (the latter concentrated in one group with Germany) have developed fundamentally different concepts of debt resolution solutions. As a final example, we will take the joint statement following the meeting of German, Dutch and Finnish finance ministers, which took place near Helsinki on 25 September, in which ministers discussed the ESM results, which are...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U110	Question, please! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U111	Should Estonia not take a clearer position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U112	Thank you. Please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U113	Thank you very much, good waitress. No further questions for you. We're going to negotiate. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. I would like to ask the first speaker, Marko Mihkelson, as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U114	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Time flies fast. Several years have passed since the heavy burden of the debt crisis began to crush the European Union and severely tested the resilience of the entire Community. Although, in recent months, due to increased pressure, Member States have managed to take a number of important steps to contain the general nervousness and emotions of the financial markets, whether it is a European stability mechanism launched yesterday, we are still at an early stage of a greater debate. The government last reported on its European Union policy here on 15 November last year. Already then, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union stressed that when we talk about European Union politics, we must be able to look beyond one of the electoral cycles in Estonia and think seriously about what will become of Europe and what Estonia's role will be in shaping a new, changing European Union. We also proposed to start more in-depth discussions at the level of the Riigikogu in order to shape the joint political part for participation in the European debate on the basis of as diverse information as possible and different opinions. I am pleased that, especially in recent weeks, both the Riigikogu in plenary and the joint debates between the European Union and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have apparently spoken more about the future of the European Union than ever between the walls here. This is just the beginning, because already next week, the European Council will give its first major input to the debate on the future. I agree with Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, who, referring to attorney-at-law Jüri Raidla, stressed that Estonia should be among the leaders of the deepening of European cooperation in order to ensure that our national interests are respected. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association firmly believe that Estonia must be a designer of a new and changing European Union, not a designer. We have a unique opportunity now, because never before have we been so close to the core of Europe and never before has our word had the same weight as it is now. It is a very hard capital that must be able to invest in the best way possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is now all the more clear that the main issue of developments in the European Union is far from merely mitigating the debt crisis. The main issue for the European Union is how to maintain competitiveness and credibility in international relations in the context of an ageing population, declining work habits, deceiving debt-based welfare and the rapid emergence of new attractive centres of influence. It was only yesterday that we heard about Professor Urmas Varblas's presentation of why the European Union is not the best place to invest, produce or act innovatively, and how our awkward overregulation delays solutions to fragmented problems and prevents effort hinders development in the desired direction. In addition, Professor Varblane asked an even wider question: is it possible to discuss and understand in Europe that maintaining competitiveness in a globalised global economy will no longer allow nation states to maintain sovereignty in the categories of peace in Westphalia in 1648? Several analysts have indicated that one of the causes of the current challenges of the European Union is that the Community is gradually moving away from its citizens and that the democratic oversight deficit is increasing. On the one hand, the reality surrounding us says that without closer integration, the future of the European Union will be hampered or even doomed to marginalisation. On the other hand, European politicians have not had enough backbone or vision to explain to citizens the choices ahead. This is why the inclusion dimension is particularly important in the discussion on the future of Europe that is expanding in Estonia, while Estonia has a very good soil for a substantive and forward-looking debate. According to the latest Eurobarometer survey, it is in Estonia (two thirds of respondents) that the European Union is coming out of the crisis stronger. This should also put pressure on us, politicians, to seek the best solutions and to play an active role in building Europe on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen, As a responsible member of the European Union and the euro zone in particular, Estonia has far more reason to be a much more demanding partner in shaping a more united and stronger Europe. There is already much to be achieved in the light of existing agreements and with due respect for principles. In the opinion of the IRL Group, Estonia needs to work even more strongly than before to develop a truly free and open internal market for the European Union, to prioritise education and research at Community level and to remove barriers to competition between Member States. This is also the reason why IRL proposed yesterday that the Riigikogu begin processing the draft statement, with which our Parliament would take a clear position on the reform of the common agricultural policy of the European Union. As a right-wing party, we are far from encouraging harmonisation of direct payments through additional European budget allocations, but by reducing the unequal rates below. Let us be honest, the current situation in which the European Union's common agricultural policy instruments exceed ten times the amount allocated to R &amp; D and innovation policies is not encouraging to maintain or strengthen global competitiveness in the various strategies. In the discussions on the new financial perspective, Estonia must also make a clear reference to this mismatch. Finally. There is a time for serious choices in the European Union. These options are certainly more fundamental and probably more complex than the decisions we have taken so far to agree on. Today, we do not know in what way and how quickly the European Union will change, but we certainly know that it is in the interests of Estonia to have a unified, attractive and forward-looking connection. The idea and realisation of a united Europe must turn from an elite project into a declaration of will by European citizens. Only then will the foundation of the Community be unwavering and will it endure even the toughest trials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U115	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U116	Dear Prime Minister, thank you very much for your meaningful and long answers. The European Union must obviously tighten the rules with its various members and different cultures. My heartache is linked to the news this morning that the European Commission intends to give farmers the obligation to leave 7% of farmland green in order to restore the living environment of various animal species. For Estonia, this is a rather dubious demand, which obviously does not make sense. That's where my question comes from. What are the possibilities for the Government of the Republic to fight against such strange or almost harmful decisions from the point of view of Estonia, and how much will your voice be heard in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U117	This idea has not reached the level of the Council. However, I would say that the aim of greening, leaving a certain percentage of arable land to feed, is not a new issue in Europe. And this is not only a European issue, but it is a topic in many other countries around the world. In places where agriculture has been very intensive for decades, even over a century, too much of the territory of the countries is culturally cultivated, intensively cultivated, leaving relatively little room for the wild. I'll give you an example farther away from Kazakhstan, where I went a month ago. Once, the Kazakhs were nomads, herding on a very large territory. Then came and plowed their pastures, their traditional way of life was destroyed. Up plow very fertile land and plow up land that was not very productive. The aim of the Soviet policy was to create interdependence between the various regions in order to suppress any attempt at independence. What are the Kazakhs doing now? They have, as planned, left many territories fed again and made them natural. They're very happy to have rabbits and foxes living in those fields again. It's the same story in Europe. If a bird's song tends to disappear in large territories simply because the bird has nowhere to be nested, it may seem like too much fun for some if something is done. Well, now they're really crazy about having a good life, thinking about birds, beetles, bugs that birds could eat, and thus preventing industrial agricultural production. In the case of Estonia, this issue is not relevant, as 50% of our territory is covered by forest. We have plenty of swamps and bogs. There is no need for any economic stimulus for the addition of natural, wild green areas to the Estonian landscape. We have a very good balance right now. I therefore think that we do not need to join this 7% call. If anyone wants to create an instrument that would encourage land to be fed, no one will use it in Estonia. There is simply no need to use the money in this way in Estonia, in my opinion. But once again, if you drive from one city to another in Western Europe, you can see hundreds of miles of completely cultivated land along the highway, and only houses are in between, maybe some wooded woods too, but all the fields have been ploughed up to the side of the road. There's too little room left for wild nature. This is therefore not a nonsense in Brussels, but a necessity for some countries. We could be tolerant and understand that this 7% is due not to the limitations of an official, but to the need to ensure natural diversity in those countries where this diversity is not as well preserved as we have here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U118	Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Taavi Rõivas, Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Honourable guests! Ladies and gentlemen, In the summer of Estonia, British historian Timothy Garton Ash used the term 'attack to mentality' to describe the current development of Europe in the last Foreign Affairs. He recalled the moods that led to European cooperation and compared them with the increasing cynicism that is now reflected in the attitude of many people towards the European Union. It seems to me, too, that, as long as the European Union has been inextricably economical, it has been easy to explain the decisions of the European Union to the public. However, now that the crisis makes it necessary to put into practice the principles of European cooperation, such as responsibility or solidarity, expressed so far in words and agreements, many Europeans find that these are unjustified or unfair demands. Those who measure being European are wrong only in the euro that has been incorporated and withdrawn. Being part of the European Union is much more than that; it is belonging to a common value area. This is a question of the environment in which we want to raise our children. Ash recalled the mood that possessed Europeans after the Second World War, especially the knowledge of the chaos that conflict between European countries could lead to. Even now, decades later, the debate on the future of the European Union is still at the heart of the same ideal of shaping a better future, this time in a somewhat new context, in the face of globalisation. Global information, capital, freedom of movement for goods and people and the speed of its movement have made the countries of the world interdependent to the extent that it has never been before. But perhaps it is not so difficult to build a bridge, consensus or understanding between the thinking of Europeans after World War II and those who are today adapting to globalisation. Good Riigikogu! How, then, can we manage European developments? What kind of Europe do we Estonians want? I propose three debates. I will first focus briefly on the development of the monetary union, and I will also touch on the negotiations for the next budgetary period of the European Union. Secondly, I will address the internal market and the need to actually open it. Thirdly, I am talking about the democratic governance of the European Union, including, of course, the work of the Riigikogu. An open-economy exporting small country has a great deal to gain from having the same currency as a trading partner. After all, jokes have been said that when the exchange rate of the kroon was tied to the German mark 20 years ago, Estonia and Germany became the first countries in the euro zone. A firm currency has been the cornerstone of our economic success. Now that part of the euro area has been drawn to the displeasure of the markets by excessive borrowing, both in its own country and in our common money, it would be extremely short-sighted to be disappointed in the euro as such. With a common currency, we will continue to be stronger and more economically successful than without it. The economic problems faced by a number of European countries did not arise because the European Union's regulations were bad, but because they were not complied with. The key to resolving the current acute crisis is that it is starting to comply with the agreements that have already been concluded. After all, the new drafts merely add that the likelihood of these agreements being enforced will be increased by additional sanctions. Outside, the European Union and the euro continue to appear attractive, despite some popular attacks on the ESM or EFSF. Estonia has been an active supporter of the enlargement policy of the European Union and, of course, we welcome Croatia's accession next summer. We look forward to news of the achievements of our southern neighbours in meeting the Maastricht criteria. I sincerely hope that their efforts will be crowned with success and that Latvia will be a country in the euro zone as early as 2014. The accession of Lithuania and Poland is also important both for themselves and for Estonia. Good fellows! During the next seven-year budget period, Estonia will also be among those countries that receive more support than they contribute from the central budget of the European Union. However, I dare say that for the European Union, supporting Estonia through cohesion policy instruments is considered an investment. Estonia's aim is to use these tools as efficiently as possible for economic development. This means that in the future we will also be able to manage without external support. Moreover, Estonia's ambition is to reach out as quickly as possible among the beneficiaries, in other words, we want to catch up with the wealthier countries from the standard of living. We want to invest in both transport and energy infrastructure in order to make up for the investment gap that was caused by the freedom lost against our will. We are creating a level playing field for growth and prosperity with another Europe. We have proven ourselves at the fastest rate of catching up in Europe and as one of the most effective users of euro money. Of course, we must treat every euro from Europe as carefully as the euro taken out of the pocket of the Estonian taxpayer, because only in this way can we be sure that the benefits for Estonia's development are maximum. The Committee on European Union Affairs has traditionally given ministers and managers a headache by closely monitoring the effectiveness and feasibility of the use of euro money. Now we want the Riigikogu to play an active role in setting priorities for the next period and developing national plans. Already next week, we will be discussing the first proposals developed by the Commission at the Ministry of Finance. However, first of all, of course, agreements must be reached to enable us to start planning the European Union's budget. The negotiations on the budgetary framework of the European Union, which started two years ago, have entered the first phase of decision-making. It is no secret that Estonia continues to stand both for raising the limit on cohesion funds and for equalising the distribution of the common agricultural policy budget. Of course, with respect for the euro that comes from abroad, we expect others, whether it be structural support or an aid loan. Reading reviews of reforms and cuts in programme countries, we often find ourselves in the EUAK wondering whether a stronger than expected economic downturn is an objective fact to delay the achievement of the balance targets, as currently agreed in Europe, or whether longer steps should be recommended in this case. Finally, it is not for Brussels or Frankfurt, but for helping our country back on track. We remember well that Estonia set its own balance targets during the crisis, although in the most difficult year, we used the Maastricht criterion as a basis for the border. When it turned out that external factors were worse than expected, we adjusted the length of the step, not the goal itself. Good Riigikogu! Europe is thirsty for new growth. As we well know and hope to remember from the debt crisis, national stimulus packages are not sources of sustainable growth. Growth can only come from the economy and growing competition and trade. Despite the fact that there is an open internal market in the European Union, there are still many incomprehensible bureaucratic restrictions that hinder the free movement of goods and, in particular, services. For example, an Estonian guide must obtain local qualifications prior to starting work in Italy. If an Estonian wishes to open a shop in Luxembourg, he must undergo a qualification check, which requires proof that the person has experience in managing the shop. Examples can be provided endlessly. Each of these at first sight is actually hampering the development of the internal market and the future economic growth of the European Union, not to mention greater things, such as the failure to create a single digital identification and electronic signature system. The current issue of the future of the health sector in Estonia also has a very clear cross-border dimension. We know that patients have the right to use healthcare in other countries and receive compensation for it in their own country. In realising this right, it is crucial to agree on rules and open up the market for the free movement of patients. We know that the Estonian medical sector is competitive in terms of both price and quality, and bringing patients to Estonia is an important additional source of money alongside the domestic health insurance fund. As important as the internal market is foreign trade for the European Union. This is an issue which, among other things, we thoroughly dissected at a public joint session with the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday. I believe that free trade agreements with the US and Asian countries are the direction that Europe must take. Protectionism is yesterday and the ambition of the European Union should be much greater than defending its internal market. Our current steps in liberalising trade in goods will depend on whether the European Union will be a key player in global trade in 10, 20 or 50 years' time. I am extremely pleased that the Prime Minister, in his speech, touched on the issue of the organisation of Parliament's work. I, too, believe that the competence of the Riigikogu should be modernised in matters of the European Union. In addition to the post-Council review, which would be positive in every way, a clearer mandate is needed for the government to participate, for example, in Eurogroup meetings. The draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu is under development and we expect results from the working group by the end of this month. Outside the Rules of Procedure, however, it is extremely important to find opportunities for public inclusive discussions. We did them last year, both on ACTA and on the euro-zone issues, and a longer and more comprehensive series is currently underway, where we look at the future developments of the European Union from an Estonian perspective. These discussions are open to the public, are broadcast online and are attended by guests, including non-governmental experts. The future of the European Union is the future of all of us, and Riigikogu debates on European Union issues can and must be as open and inclusive as possible. If the choice is whether to stay ready to wait from Brussels for future plans or to play an active part, then we will obviously choose another option. Good Riigikogu! German-born former US diplomat and politician Henry Kissinger finishes his book, talking about the future. He notes that when presenting a vision for the future, there is nothing to prove it, and that assessments of the relationship between hopes and opportunities are only hypothetical. However, one more or less can be assumed if we think about the European Union's current cooperation and its future. European cooperation has started with the crisis and political will has always been found and the power to deepen and move forward in times of crisis. Let us not, then, necessarily look at the breaking points in the moments of crisis in Europe or at the beginnings of European cooperation. The crisis is the natural state of European cooperation and the driving force; it is also the best moment to look in the mirror. We are doing our best to ensure that the entire European Union emerges stronger than Estonia's crisis, and we are doing our best to enable us to learn from both the past and the present by building the future of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U120	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U121	Dear waitress, I have a very specific question. The Rail Baltic project is likely to take place in the European Union. My question to you is this: do you think that in 20 years' time Estonia or Tallinn could have a permanent connection to Finland, so that Rail Baltic would become complete and perfect?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U122	Thank you, good penguin, for such a simple question. As a very big optimist, I hope that during the next seven-year budget period it will be possible to connect the continent and Muhumaa with a permanent connection. Whether and when the fixed connection to Finland, which we already have in cultural, linguistic and spiritual terms, will be realised as a physical bridge, I cannot say. I don't think I'm such an optimist to offer a date here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U123	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Our President, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, while a member of the European Parliament, together with another member of the then European Parliament, the Finnish politician Alexander Stubb, pushed through the Baltic Sea Strategy. This was the first macro-regional strategy in the European Union. At present, the macro-regional approach is getting worse. There is a Mediterranean strategy, an Atlantic strategy is being created. The Prime Minister said that Estonia is interested in the most homogeneous European Union, while the macro-regional approach continues to deepen. How should we act as a country, whether to deepen the macro-regional approach or to try to reduce it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U125	Thank you. The Patient Free Movement Directive worked for several years and is currently transposing it. If I remember correctly, the deadline for all countries will be one year from now, which should be taken over next autumn. I believe that Estonia will probably be one of the fastest purchasers of this directive, because we really see here our direct interest and possible additional sources of money for the Estonian health care sector. In fact, this is, of course, a much wider issue, because it increases competition and gives patients additional opportunities. The extra money for the Estonian system is certainly not the only reason why the directive on the free movement of patients should be transposed as soon as possible or why the free movement of patients should be made possible quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U126	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U127	Good waitress! We can talk about the importance of national parliaments in Europe whatever it takes, the fact is that as soon as the Estonian Parliament started discussing this issue, foreign representatives left the balcony in corpore. In other words, foreign countries are least interested in what we do here. However, when we are talking about the common agricultural policy, I believe that the problem is not about money, which is really small, there are traditions here, etc. It seems to me that this is intellectual impotence, the inability to think outside the planning economy and administration system. This is the real background of the CAP inability to think under the conditions of a liberal market economy. Now, the question is: is the European Union ship not now so far on the left that it will not make it to shore at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U128	Thank you. I certainly do not think that our current debate will not be fully monitored, among other things, in the parliaments of other countries, or that diplomats from other countries will not do so. The only way to follow this debate is not the balcony in our Chamber, but it is also, as we know, possible to follow it online. There were two sides to your question. One side is agricultural policy. I think the Prime Minister has already responded very well to this and to the political realities. Although it was also very intriguing for me to hear from Professor Sparrow yesterday, which is actually not very new, so that radical cuts in the top-up of agricultural direct payments could be compensated for for these countries precisely by increased R &amp; D funds. Here is the question of what Europe of the future is, which areas we want to finance from a common European source. The very philosophical question is whether Europe is inclined to the left. My personal conviction is that this extremely deep left leaning was certainly seen in some countries when the model of the social state, which is obviously beyond force, was put into practice, but reality brings back the vertical lock of this ship. Infinitely deviate from the ability to live, or left, if you wish to say so, is not possible. I'm an optimist here. In fact, I believe that these countries have no choice but to balance their system and that ship, which is, using your image, our common European ship, to get back to normal, much faster and on a positive course than it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U129	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U130	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, My question is to you as Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Before, the question to the Prime Minister in this Chamber was, why sometimes it happens that ministers do not reach the Commission and the top officials of the ministries must be looked at in the Commission. My question looks at the matter on the other hand: how do you assess the active involvement of the Members of the Commission in the work of the Commission? After all, the work of the Committee on European Union Affairs has been relatively tense lately, where very important things are decided. How do the Members of the Commission view their work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U131	Thank you, good questioner! To the group that you manage, I have only words of praise. But more seriously, my role as chairman of the committee is probably not comparable to that of a class leader, who should mark absent persons without reason in the diary and scold when there are many absences. However, I will say that most times, apart from the days of group departures, if we really have sometimes had problems with the quorum, this is one of the inherent problems that groups often want to organise trips on Fridays, participation has been not only numerous, but also essentially very high quality. I have much rather congratulations to the Members of the Commission, although I do not know whether I should be the one who is making assessments of my fellow Members. As far as the participation of ministers is concerned, I do not really agree with the criticism of the Vice-Chair of the Commission. For example, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, but also the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Environment, who, although perhaps somewhat less, has participated almost always or always in matters relating to our Commission. We have already had a policy of awareness in several configurations that the drafts will be presented by ministerial officials. This is the case both in the specialised committees and in the Committee on European Union Affairs. However, it is also true that, whenever a meeting of the Council of Ministers is taking place in the near future, we are waiting for the Minister to attend the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs and are extremely frustrated if the minister does not participate personally. I wouldn't say this picture looks worse than it used to be. But, of course, in principle, we expect the government's positions to be represented personally by the Minister when presenting all Estonian positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U132	Thank you very much. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U133	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The current European Union was created in a crisis situation, after the Second World War. These reasons and motives why the European Union was then created are now exhausted and the European Union faces new important challenges. The European Union's problem now is not what it once was, but new developments. The problem is also not whether some support measures are too large or too small. The problem facing the European Union is its structural structure. My question to you is: does the European Union Affairs Commission have a debate in the near future on what could be the structural or constitutional structure and mode of action of the new European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U134	Thank you. A clear position is always a great value. I think on these issues you, me and the Government of the Republic are seeing things quite the same way. It is a matter of time before most of Europe is very clearly leaning towards it, perhaps it has already tended to, that future growth will no longer be expected from public spending, as was the case during the crisis and which proved exceptionally unsustainable, but is expected from the open internal market and from the organisation of public finances. On these issues, I think, Estonia's views have been very clear. More importantly, for many countries that are considerably larger than us, but also for as large countries as we are, we are a good example of life itself, of the way out of the crisis quickly. The debt cannot be treated with new debt, but must be treated with rapid structural reform, and the deficit must be treated with cuts. I think that Estonia's views are quite clear, but if we find in the Commission that in some places the voice of Estonia might sound even clearer, then proposals are always welcome. I am absolutely certain that the Government of the Republic will also listen to these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U135	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U136	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I want to know your opinion: does the Government of the Republic have priorities in the implementation of European Union policy, or are we pulling all the search at once?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U137	Thank you. In my opinion, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U138	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U139	I thank the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs for a good report. It is a pity, of course, that we could not discuss it in advance in the Commission. But I have the same question for you as for the Prime Minister. What do we do, however, with ministers who prefer other formats, such as radio broadcasts, rather than coming to ELAK, or, even more so, ministers who do not want to travel to Brussels to deal with Estonia? Statistics show that with the exception of the Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Finance, all other ministers have canceled these trips. Such behaviour would be unthinkable in Denmark, Sweden or Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U140	Thank you, Vice-Chairman of the Commission. I think that being the vice-chairman of our committee is, in practice, one of the best methods to ensure the presence of ministers, because you have really shown zero tolerance in relation to every absence. I'm not saying it's wrong. That's pretty good. I apologise to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whom I forgot earlier on this list and who has really always participated in the meetings of the Commission. As far as ministers who do not attend some councils are concerned, I would very clearly distinguish between informal councils, which are not specifically concerned with defending the interests of Estonia or where no new decisions are taken, from those councils where the fundamental interests of Estonia, where negotiations are held and where decision-making places are really possible. These councils have different weights. We have always watched in the Commission that the minister himself would be present in those councils where Estonia's important decisions are made or where the voice of Estonia should be loud. It is also true that the division of the Estonian state's ministries, which has mostly been made before joining the European Union, is somewhat different than in many other countries. We have some ministers covering even more than ten completely separate areas in the European Union. This may mean for some ministers that much of their work is towards the European Union. But I don't think this is wrong in any way; these ministers just have to take their time into account when planning. In any case, I believe that you and I will continue to be consistent in calling for ministers in the future, and we will always ask for reason when there is no minister. That's what we've always done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U141	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, We have listened to two thorough reports. Mr Gräzin pointed out that foreign diplomats had left for the parliamentary debate, but perhaps it is for the best, because perhaps the heart of a proper diplomat in some countries would now skip the punch when I hear my question. You said that we need to look at the environment we leave to our children, and also at the fact that we have even gained more room for decision-making in the European Union. Are you just as informed as the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of a possible new European asylum policy? Has any information come to the table of the Committee on European Union Affairs on a possible proposal from European countries to allocate asylum applications by quota equally between Member States in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U143	Thank you. These proposals have been made on an ongoing basis, not in such a way that they were somehow an official draft. At least I don't remember having any official bill on the table on this matter. But these ideas have been known and we have been discussing these issues, say, in parliamentary cooperation formats such as the COSAC or the half-yearly conference of the European Union Affairs Committees. This issue has not been mentioned in the Committee on European Union Affairs in this context; at least Estonia has not taken the view that asylum applications should somehow be distributed across Europe on the basis of a quota.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U144	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U145	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, my dear waitress, I would like to thank you for a very optimistic presentation and optimistic answers. Listening to you will give rise to the feeling that Europe's welfare will depend very much on which people will lead our Europe. If these are such optimistic people, we are certainly doing well. My question is that Russia has consistently applied for visa liberalisation with the European Union. What role should we be in as a neighbouring country, whether we should speak more and talk about whether we should be leaders or just spectators?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U146	Please, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of Marianne Mikko.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U147	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! The debate on the future of the European Union is particularly close to the heart of the Socialists as Estonia's oldest political power. We can say with pride that our values, such as solidarity, helping the weaker and equal opportunities, have been fundamental values of the European Union since the beginning of time and will hopefully remain fundamental values in the distant future. It is noteworthy that Prime Minister Ansip, who took stock of the European Union's policy, betrayed our hopes when he said that it is not wise to judge the membership of the European Union on the basis of money alone. That's what we thought he was doing. Our second delightful disappointment was when the Prime Minister never used Eurostat data as a tool in his speech. Indeed, when it is time for search, but also for decision-making, one or the other statistics may sound strange in order not to say hollowly. The big picture needs a big, clear idea. Once again, the European Union is asking itself whether the idea of being us, the raison d'être, is a union of states or a federal state. However, this time it is a Community matter with almost 30 Member States that is much more important than when there were 12 or 15 Member States in the European Union, if there was no single currency, not to mention the crisis. The Union of States, i.e. an intergovernmental association or a federation, became a federation of nation states in September of this year. Mr Barroso, President of the European Commission, played a good role in his presentation to Members of the European Parliament. A pair of words flew to all the capitals of Europe. Therefore, our group was excited to hear from the Prime Minister of Estonia's speech today what the government thinks of such a federation, led by its leader. In his performance here in front of us, the Prime Minister did not open too many cards. Carefully, the head of government suggested that the Federation's point was not to be thrown overboard at Stenbock's house, on the contrary. But the answer to the fundamental question to the Social Democrats was confused: the Union of States, the Union of States or the Federation of National States. If there is an idea, it must be made clear and bold. The Prime Minister surprised us with balance. At the same time, however, we are asking what signal the Prime Minister really wanted to give when he said that we must constantly seek a balance between different areas, decision-makers and decision-making levels when making new choices. Mr. Ansip, that's a nice twilight, where the clearest word is 'balance'. The Social Democrats are particularly careful to sign this balance to the alors, and what? At all, the Prime Minister left behind a number of important questions. Optimist thinks it's inclusion, realist thinks it's more like cheating, in a situation where you don't have your thoughts. At the same time, the Prime Minister offered the Riigikogu existing decision-making powers. The cynic claims that the European Union Affairs Committee was still left to the role of the rubber seal, given the possibilities for MEPs to influence the European semester, for example. The Social Democrats noticed an interesting development. This concerns the 'two-speed' European Union. Until joining the euro area, Estonia was a hard-voiced opponent of the European Union with a distinctly different rate of development. However, today we have heard how a two-speed Europe has been led by a beautiful formulation to deepen cooperation. Estonia must be among the leaders for its national interests to be respected. I quote the Prime Minister: 'In the other case, we will only have one choice: to drag along or to stay behind. ' It sounds as threatening as Hugo Chávez's words, 'With us or death! '. The Prime Minister of Estonia spoke about the European Union as a monetary and economic union and also touched on the banking union. Surprisingly, he even stopped on the topic of political union. His concern for the democratic role warmed the hearts of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U148	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U149	However, one that was firmly excluded from the speech and, unfortunately, our group does not find it surprising, but saddens us, was the subject of a social European Union. Today, in front of the members of the Riigikogu, there was the right place and even the duty to speak on this subject. This should have been done here and now when Estonian medics are on strike, when teachers have expressed their minds when the labour market is in turbulence, when the number of Estonian families with a lousy income is growing. No matter what the pleasant statistics tell Andrus Ansip, we wanted and want to hear a man's word about how the European Commission's recommendations are implemented in the context of a social Europe in Estonia. What else besides the signorance is the social policy of the Estonian government in the European Union? No matter how the government coalition feels, the Social Democrats are convinced that the social dimension, and especially the social dimension, is also the European Union. However, it seems impossible to hear the idea from the government in power (a lesser act to show it) that the European Union is a three-dimensional community: social, economic and political. If the current government does not understand this, then the time will come when the new government will properly assess the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U150	Thank you very much. Please, as a representative of the Group of the Kalle Palling Reform Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Colleagues! As a representative of the Reform Party Group, I welcome today's debate and its emphasis on the future. It is vital that we not only focus on topical problems, but that we can see Europe in 5, 10 and 15 years' time. Only a long-term vision will help take Europe to tomorrow from yesterday. In a sense, Europe's two main areas of reform, agriculture and the financial system, are faced with a similar dilemma, either by relying on more solidarity and redistribution, or by trying to find a way back to market measures. Perhaps Estonia has a choice whether to require direct payments as large as the average in the European Union or to try to reduce the proportion of subsidies in the European Union's agricultural policy. I am saying this because I am not sure that Europe will be able to push today's fundamental problems to be resolved tomorrow. Of course, the changes must be implemented step by step, but firmly in line with the vision. We consider it necessary for any regulation to lead countries back to the market and not to seek more and more help. The hope that quantity could be converted to quality has largely not worked out. It is also quite foolish to hope for a better outcome, doing the same as usual. I will illustrate this with an example of meeting the renewable energy targets. If the country's goal here is only to achieve a certain share of the total electricity consumption, then the choice is simple: we burn in the same furnaces where coal or oil shale was burned in the past, wood, so we achieve the necessary figures, but we do not create new power generation capacities. However, if energy production is actually to be made more efficient and cleaner, the problem should be tackled innovatively. The implementation of the policy should not only mean a win-win situation, but should create greater added value. Since the beginning of the work of this Riigikogu, the Reform Party Group has discussed in depth the use of the European Union's resources for the next budget period. The Reform Party is of the opinion that receiving money must not be an end in itself. We need to take measures that actually work instead of fundamentally changing the logic of the free market economy that has brought us success. Estonia must not become dependent on subsidies, as has been the case with many countries suffering from a debt crisis. I would like to point out that the instruments that we will receive from the European Union budget during the next financial perspective are exactly the same as the money collected from taxpayers in our national budget. With the introduction of each euro, we need to make sure that we do not generate additional costs, but that we have to be able to generate as much revenue and added value as possible in the long term. Europe must change the way it thinks that the essential value of the infrastructure created by subsidies is the temporary creation of jobs and the receipt of tax money. However, it should be borne in mind that investments should give priority to export and competitiveness, while other instruments have been set up for social policy. For the Reform Party, it is important that the following items and areas are financed during the next financial perspective. First of all, the Tartu highway must be built in four rows and a permanent connection to Saaremaa must be built. In order to prevent the above investments from becoming cost projects, my personal assessment might consider applying the 'user pays' principle. Secondly, investment in the education and hospital network must be financed. Thirdly, it is crucial that the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) is implemented during the next financial perspective. Only then can we be sure that the Member States will agree among themselves on the financing of cross-border infrastructure sites. The common LNG terminal between the Baltic States and Finland and the Rail Baltic railway connection are obviously important for Estonia. I now come back to the future of the European Union. The previous speakers made a long (and more generally today) point to the new idea of José Manuel Barroso to set up a federation of European countries. The principle of subsidiarity is a measure of European federalisation. We need to find answers to the question of what further federalisation would give to the Union as a whole, but also to Estonia in particular. The second dilemma in Estonia is whether to contribute to promoting common policies as active as possible or to increasing independent competitiveness. I would remind you that yesterday, under the leadership of the Committee on European Union Affairs, there was an in-depth debate that focused on this aspect. We must ensure that inclusion with joint initiatives does not undermine our competitiveness and makes us increasingly dependent on the common budget of the European Union. Honourable listeners! I call on all the political groups to participate actively in the European Union's future analysis events jointly organised by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Only in this way can we ourselves be the ones who shape a better future for Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U152	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Jüri Ratas Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Good fellows! Guests! First of all, I would like to welcome and congratulate the fact that today we are talking about the European Union's policy as a whole, that we are not only talking about the euro zone. This gives us an opportunity to think bigger and more far-reaching. Let me start by quoting the speech given by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia on 15 November 2011. This speech was held in the Riigikogu and its topic was an overview of the implementation of the European Union's policy: 'Contracts must not be changed with a light hand, but it cannot be taboo. If necessary, this should be done. It is clear that our preference for deepening cooperation and amending agreements is to move forward within the framework of the European Union as a whole, with all the Member States, because there are things that simply work 27 best, for example, in the internal market. ' It is this preference and the number of Member States 27 that I would like to dwell on. For several years now, there has been talk of a two-speed Europe and of an ever louder and bolder one in recent months. In fact, we are talking about the centralisation or decentralisation of the European Union. It is true that the latter is not spoken out loud, because the current trend in the economic and fiscal crisis is strongly in the direction of centralisation. I wonder how in two-speed Europe the Rail Baltic Community can be completed, assuming that the current situation regarding the use of the euro remains valid in the Baltics. Let me take a look back in time. In 1951, the European Coal and Steel Community was established, which is considered the beginning of European integration. True, an even more precise date is deemed to be 9 May 1950. Dates for dates. The most important reason and objective for the future European Union was that it was a peace union of six European countries, where market measures made war between the founding countries almost impossible. Why am I talking about history that we already know? At least 2008. Until then, we talked mainly about the fundamental value of the European Union, which has been and I hope that the free movement of citizens, goods, services and capital within the European Union will continue. This fundamental position has started to be seriously altered by the debt crisis, which is taking over in the European Union and the euro zone. Is there more weight to change the development of the European Union to date in the last four or five years of the debt crisis, or is it more important than half a century in which the free movement of citizens, goods, services and capital has been pursued? It is above all this primary principle of peace that must prevent Europe from splitting apart. I think that the European Union, which is based on decentralisation and has at least 27 countries, will increasingly have competitiveness in the near future 28 countries. That is what gives strength and credibility an advantage. Such a Europe is stronger than the eurozone, where we are tightening our belts to save Greece, and suddenly we discover that Sweden, Denmark and Great Britain, with their own currency, are sailing on a different course. I wonder what speed they're driving in two-speed Europe, or is there already a three-speed Europe? I believe that we understand these countries' contribution to the stabilisation of the single European Union and to ensuring a greater internal market. The simplified rhetoric that if you are not in the Eurogroup, you do not exist among European decision-makers, the first Europe, is wrong. The British Prime Minister's statement on vetoing the European Union budget a few days ago must be taken seriously. The eurozone must look in the mirror and ask why it has gone so far. The uniqueness of the Member States is not bad. On the contrary, the convergence angle between countries and peoples, for example, on monetary and social policy, provides an opportunity to learn from the best practices and, where possible, to implement them in their own countries. Thinking once again about the centralised or decentralised European Union, it must be said that there are certainly good examples of centralisation. Aviation safety requirements have made aviation safer, environmental regulations have made society more environmentally sustainable. However, absurd regulations on the size or curvature of cucumbers have not produced the expected result. If we try to compare the European Union and the United States in an illustrative way, we might ask why we are not talking about a multi-speed America where 30 states would develop at one speed and 20 states at another. The reason, of course, is that it is a single country, and in every sense the various states enrich this country and this economic market, and it is through differences that they increase competitiveness. Honourable Riigikogu! We will certainly not be able to overcome or shift from direct payments in the agricultural sector in today's debate. The European Union budget for the next budgetary period is currently being decided, including the establishment of levels of agricultural direct payments in different countries. Estonia's firm position must be here to move towards equalising direct payments. Good listeners! In his presentation today, the Prime Minister repeatedly spoke about fiscal policy in the euro area and about the ESM. The joint opinion of the Riigikogu on the decision-making processes of the ESM procedure, i.e. the view that the plenary of the Riigikogu retains a greater say, is worthy of recognition. I hope that the ESM will be such a strong firewall that the eurozone will restore its credibility and the Member States will not live beyond their means. At present, it seems that the eurozone is cost-based and the European Union is revenue-based. I really hope I'm wrong here. Respect for fiscal discipline in the European Union is also becoming increasingly important. One good standard is the Maastricht criteria, or at least the principles that result from them. According to Eurostat, in the first quarter of this year, 12 euro area countries exceeded the 60% debt burden set out in the Maastricht criteria. Compliance with the Maastricht criteria cannot be an end in itself, but by joining the euro area; these criteria must be applied by all Member States on a daily basis. According to the Centre Party Group, the decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 12 July needs to be dealt with separately and in depth, where the aspect of the breach of constitutionality was also mentioned as to how much and to what extent the Riigikogu has the right to delegate Estonia's competence to the European Union. We believe that this issue needs a broad-based discussion in society. The European Parliament elections in 2014 will certainly not be an obstacle here. If the new Treaty or the Treaty amendment will lead to greater delegation of our country's powers to the European Union, then we will certainly support putting this issue to a referendum. We will continue to take the view that, just as in the Treaty of Lisbon, where at least one million citizens of the European Union have been granted the right to a referendum initiative, this principle must also be reflected in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Finally, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and their chairmen for their open sessions, where the future of the European Union will be discussed with specialists. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U154	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has expressed his wish to speak in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U155	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu, I thank you for your many questions and a meaningful debate. I also thank the European Commission for its very constructive and constructive cooperation. I would like the debate on the European Union to be intense in the future in the Riigikogu. I hope that in the future we will not adopt a "encapsulated attitude," not questioning 'we versus them', but looking for solutions for how we can all win together by working together in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U156	Thank you very much. The item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U157	We are moving to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the National Death Support Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. There's been a change in the co-rapporteur. The co-rapporteur is Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Let's get to first reading. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U158	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a draft entitled 'A bill to amend the National Death Allowance Act'. The point is that since 1 July 2009, funeral allowance was abolished in Estonia, which was intended for so-called natural persons. The beneficiary of the funeral allowance can now only be a local government which burys unacquainted or unknown persons. The amount of the funeral allowance when it was withdrawn during the funeral was EUR 191. Just as much can be obtained now by the local government when it organises funerals. Since three years ago it was a crisis and temporary cuts, we are based on the idea that now is the right time to restore funeral support. All the more so as, as our negotiations with a large number of municipalities and social welfare workers there have shown, this is a major problem in many municipalities, which is causing a lot of headaches. In fact, the number of people who refuse to bury their own has grown exponentially because they do not have the money to do so. We know about dozens of cases, I'm not exaggerating, where people have taken fast loans to organize funerals. Crematoriums are struggling with ash urns on shelves, but people cannot buy them out because there is simply no money. The situation is often that late payment is already higher than the cost of the service. This situation cannot be considered normal. That is why we are proposing the restoration of the funeral allowance in its former form. I know in advance that the government does not support this bill. This is because, as stated in the very short letter here, this support was then withdrawn in order for public funds to be used more efficiently and on a need-based basis. However, I ask you, good members of the coalition (I see that the bill is of 'insane' interest among you, there are nine coalition members in the Chamber, but it is possible to believe that everyone will be there to vote against at the time of the vote), not to vote on it, because, after the first reading, it is possible to restrict the circle of beneficiaries of the funeral allowance and to really make this support needs-based, as the Government of our honourable Republic wishes. We all understand that there is a problem and that the problem is big. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U159	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You referred to the possibility of making such a change between two readings in order to make this support 'necessary'. You therefore acknowledge that it would rather be necessary to make the funeral allowance needs-based. Why, then, did you make such an outright suggestion and not proceed immediately from this principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U161	I sincerely seek a compromise between the opposition and the coalition's political desire.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U162	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U163	Thank you. This is a subject which, on the one hand, is a small detail of the autonomy of local governments in a large complex, but, on the other hand, it is much more dramatic than the autonomy of local governments, of course, because it relates to the subject of death and funeral. During the preparation of this draft, have you had an overview of how municipalities have managed to pay the funeral allowance to those who need it, or even to those who need it? And have there been very dramatic cases where it has simply not been handled and people's material losses and emotional suffering have increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U164	Thank you for your question. Such examples, yes, they are. I don't want to point the finger because, frankly, smaller and poorer LAs are somehow balancing people on the border of the law. For example, the law provides that the local government receives a funeral allowance if it burys an unfamiliar person. This has led to people writing about such a statement (I have one such statement in my office, I can read it to you later): 'I don't want to bury my daughter because I hadn't seen her for 20 years. He came and died. He's a stranger to me. ' I believe that no one writes such a statement with an easy heart, but people just have no other way out. A local government burys a person, even though a person has relatives. It means some sort of temporary support will be enchanted. Larger municipalities can do all of this, but we know that we have 226 municipalities and there are also those that cannot handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U165	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have just said that it is as if your group would also agree that this support is needs-based, that you consider it quite justified. Don't you think it would be better if we put forward a new bill? Financial limits and criteria would then need to be developed. It must be very difficult to change this bill by shooting off your hip like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U167	Thank you for asking! You know, I really like that kind of expression. Our Prime Minister also tells us from time to time that we want to throw money off a plane. You said we were gonna shoot off the hip. In my opinion, on this subject, I am sorry, this is not quite an appropriate expression. Of course, you're right. You could do all that. But I'm counting on your cooperation as well. Not in such a way that we vote on this draft now, and then we wait long months, or even years, until the coalition comes up with its draft, but I hope that we can do this work together in this Parliament. That's what we've been chosen for, you and I.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U168	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U169	Good manager! Good waitress! I fully agree with you that a very large part of the Estonian people are currently having problems, both in funerals and in all related matters. But every parish has a duty to its own people. As they used to say, every parish supports its own cripples and the poor. Maybe we should look at it in a different neighborhood. At present, the proportion of personal income tax to be paid to municipalities has decreased. Perhaps you could look at how this amount of personal income tax is going to increase in the budget. Each municipality still knows exactly who and how much support should be paid to. In the municipality where I live, funeral allowance is paid to everyone regardless of whether he has money or not. If I wanted to give up on my father's funeral, it was not possible, because this allowance is simply paid to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U170	It is very nice that there are areas in Estonia where support is paid to everyone, shots are fired from the hip and even throws money off the plane. But when it comes to commitment, it might be the right approach. But we all know very well that we have so far, to a very large extent, unwritten responsibilities of the state and local governments. There's a gap right now, because there's really no obligation to bury any law, you know. It's like if I want to, I will, but if I don't, I won't. This applies both to the State and to the local government. This is the gap we want to close right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U171	I'm sorry, I'd like to say one line! Looks like that hip-shooting expression has gotten into the wrong context right now. In Kalle Jents's speech, it was not meant in the same sense as throwing money off the plane, there was another context. There is no point in developing this issue anymore. Please, Rein Aidma, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U172	Thank you. In your draft explanatory memorandum, you have indicated that the burden on the state budget, if all these subsidies were to be restored, is about 3.5 million euros. At the same time, you note that the impact of the Act can be taken into account in the planning of the 2013 state budget. You know very well that the draft state budget has already been given to the Riigikogu. It's too late to plan. How do we get past this gap?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U173	Thank you for asking! This so-called space arose because we gave this draft to the procedure in May when we thought it would be possible to plan it again. Now it's October, you're right. So either we have to shift time or we still have to be able to plan this thing somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U174	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U175	I have spoken to Mr Riisalu several times (right twice) about the fact that the price of funeral services is very high in Estonia. That's where the problem comes from. Describe to me, please, the situation in the Estonian funeral services market! In normal market situations, funeral services should, of course, be cheaper. Look, I can't vote unless I know the background. But this is a problem I've been talking to your partymate at least twice in a very sharp way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U176	Thank you! Really, the situation is not good. It is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that incineration with the use of chapel costs 500 euros in Tallinn, which is a high price beyond comprehension. At the same time, we know that the value added tax on funeral supplies is high. It could be lower. This is probably the next step that the legislator should take.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U177	Thank you. Please, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You will defend the draft, which provides for the death grant to be valid for everyone, to be universal support. You said in your answers that you are also prepared to compromise with the coalition and the government. Perhaps you will describe what this proposal could be, where should this limit be drawn in the case of 'need-to-need' support? Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U179	Yeah, good Remo! I, on the inside, in my soul, am opposed to this, for the simple reason that after losing a loved one, it is not the right time to run around with paperwork and prove to the Social Security Officer that you don't have any money. It's a hard enough time in a person's life. But while we're talking about it, I'll tell you, obviously we have to look at incomes and expenses and all the other things. However, we must certainly not be guided by the limits of our livelihood, because it is undoubtedly low for us. You have to look at something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U180	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U181	I have to keep going. I didn't get an answer. Do funeral services have a market and competition that brings down prices, or is that not the case? If it is not, then it is actually a very morbid place and a tool for the state to start subsidising market monopolies or, in short, a monopoly that earns as much as they want. They're welding exactly the price they want. You were talking about 500 euros. I don't know, if the price is set at 5,000, are we gonna keep paying? I repeat the question: is there a market for this service or is it not? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U182	Yeah, there's a market here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U183	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U184	Thank you, good manager. Thanks for the details, too. Indeed, with my phrase, I meant the procedure for dealing with the bill. We should start right from the beginning and not leave this bill lying around for years. But we shouldn't act like we're gonna change it. As you yourself have just said from this remote control, we should discuss this so that we do not have to rely on the limits of our livelihood. Perhaps it would be necessary to analyse what the right line is, to make concrete calculations of how many people are struggling to bury their loved ones, and then come here with a new, correct draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U185	Thank you. I have two things to explain. Estonian is not my native language. So if I respond emotionally to your expressions, I'm sorry. But I believe that if I were to use such Russian words when speaking to you, you might be upset too. That's it. Now from the expression 'correct bill'. I sincerely believe that this bill is very correct. I am surprised, of course, that I am a relatively new member of the Riigikogu, not as prestigious as any other attitude here, that the opposition did something on the knee end, and now the coalition criticises here. My understanding is that we could work together. If you have good suggestions, we will be happy to hear them. However, unfortunately, even at the Social Affairs Committee, there was no proposal except that I was told that if I were to withdraw this draft now, there would be a debate on this issue someday later. This, however, is not a constructive approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U186	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Most of the discussion that took place in this Chamber has focused on whether this support should be straightforward or need-based. Yana, do I get it very wrong that this draft we are proposing actually provides for needs-based support? After all, those who have to undertake funerals receive this support. It is not an outright subsidy in that it is paid to everyone, but it is paid only to those who organise funerals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U188	Priit, if you wanted to ask if we wanted to grant funeral allowance to those who don't bury anyone, the answer is no. At the same time, there is such a point in the bill that a person still has to ask for this support, not like a member of the Riigikogu in the municipality where it is given to everyone and forcefully. You still have to fill out the application.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U189	Thanks a lot, Yana Toom! No further questions. I would like a co-report from Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair. Only 13 minutes remain until the end of the sitting, but this particular action will be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft law amending the State Death Allowance Act 235, which was submitted by the Central Party Group, i.e. a on 24 September 2005. The draft law amending the State Death Allowance Act was introduced by Yana Toom as representative of the initiator of the draft law. The purpose of the draft is to restore the national funeral allowance in its form before 1 July 2009. The Government of the Republic does not support the draft law amending the State Death Allowance Act 235. The position of the government was presented by Marina Jefrosin, chief specialist at the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Government of the Republic's opinion on the draft law amending the National Death Allowance Act was digitally signed by Minister Hanno Pevkur. The debate on the draft was held at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 14 June. The Government of the Republic did not support the draft submitted by the Central Party Group of the Riigikogu, in accordance with item 2 on agenda No 25. The decision was taken unanimously. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic relied on the fact that the national funeral allowance was revised in 2009 with a view to improving the efficiency and necessity of the use of public funds and reducing the number of recipients of funeral grants and restricting themselves to the municipality or city administration is not intended as a temporary solution. Social benefits need to be more targeted at people who are in need and who would face coping difficulties without support. It cannot therefore be considered justified to grant a funeral allowance to all, without taking into account the economic opportunities of the deceased. The provision of necessary social assistance to persons and the payment of social assistance is a local task. Local authorities are more effective than the State in resolving individual cases and it is therefore not appropriate to set up such functions at national level. The local government units considered it necessary to pay a funeral allowance in 2011, as has already been shown here, amounting to EUR 572237. As a result of the above considerations, the Government of the Republic did not support the draft Act amending the State Death Allowance Act 235 or the proposal to restore the payment of the State Death Allowance in the form in force before 1 July 2009. The Commission, as has been said, discussed the draft on 24 September. Indeed, as the previous rapporteur has already pointed out, on the proposal of the chairman of the committee, Mr Tsahkna, the question was that the possible concerns of representatives of local authorities on this delicate matter should be heard and, after the Commission has an overview of all the municipalities at hand, it would be possible to consider a draft which would take account of the real situation and possible difficulties. As the author did not agree to withdraw the draft, the Commission took three decisions at the meeting on that date. First, send this draft law amending the State Death Allowance Act 235 to the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 9 October 2012. This decision was made by consensus. Secondly, propose that the draft be rejected. The proposal was supported by 5 and 3 members of the Commission, with no abstentions. Thirdly, the Commission appointed Margus Tsahkna as rapporteur, but since he was supposed to travel to foreign destinations, today the rapporteur is a speaker on the board. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U191	Thank you. We will be able to ask a few questions until the end of the sitting. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U192	Thank you. Good colleague! The reason for not supporting the bill is, let's say, very strange. Where, then, do you think that public money and resources could still be used more effectively than to help people in situations where they are already struggling? We also know that funeral services are very expensive. Is our public finances being maintained at the expense of people, so that people who need to be supported are simply not supported? Perhaps you will also present the results of the vote, who voted how?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U193	Thank you for your question. If you recall previous questions and answers, you referred to the fact that there is no competing service offer that would allow price reductions. The problem is, in fact, much wider than merely paying for outright support. Perhaps we are really just paying off those subsidies that are not justified by the cost side. We must listen to the local government, which is currently a supporter of this service and of the person concerned. If we find a solution that will allow this support to be paid to the deceased's really needy family members so that they can organise this sad act, then it will require a draft that will enable it to be implemented. Once again, this support is now paid by local authorities and it is necessary to negotiate with their representatives whether they believe that this support must be quite straightforward. After that, it would be possible to reach positions on the basis of which a draft could be drawn up, which should provide an optimal solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U194	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U195	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! It is probably not entirely wrong that local authorities should be able to deal with this. But the question is, where does the money come from? Let us look at 2009 if the state saved its spending by 3.5 million euros and at the same time reduced the municipal income base by 0.5%, for example, in terms of income tax. How do these two things work out? Where is the local government supposed to find this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U196	Thank you for your question. Yeah, of course, we don't have enough money all the time. But, unfortunately, money is needed not only for funeral support, but also for teachers' salaries, for example. There is a very serious process going on with doctors, health professionals as a whole. It is a question of how we can correct the salaries of police officers, border guards and others. Once again, we need to find optimal solutions in everything so that we can decide on the need-based financing models within the small budget of our small country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U197	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U198	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! We all know very well that there will be seven working weeks before the first reading to process the bill after it is put into practice. In the present case, summer was also in the meantime. Does this not mean that the work of the Social Affairs Committee has not been done? You're generally talking about listening to these and these. Why hasn't it been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U199	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the Commission's work plan depends on all kinds of factors, including the absence of meetings during the summer. We have come to the examination of this draft right now, perhaps in the autumn. Changes relating to funeral allowance need to be made only after we have an overview and information. But this can only be done in cooperation with local authorities. Only in this way can this problem be resolved as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U200	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U201	For the power of the state to view its subjects in one way or another, that is. But perhaps it is a surprise for the members of the Riigikogu that the Estonian state also has international obligations in this area. We have ratified the European Social Charter here in the Riigikogu, which says that people who do not have the necessary resources must receive help in order to bury their own. We don't get help from people, the authorities receiving the funeral allowance to bury people who don't have relatives. Did the Commission discuss whether we are currently meeting the requirements of the Social Charter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U202	Thank you for your question, my dear colleague. This is exactly the form we did not discuss. I can only briefly refer to the wording of your own question. It's not right not to get support. Support is granted to people who need it and is paid by local authorities. Can the state come to the aid of local authorities? This is an issue that we need to take in the next procedure and find an optimal solution. But once again, local authorities are currently paying for the support provided for by the Charter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-09_U203	Thank you very much. The seven speeches registered shall be placed on the agenda of the next sitting. Today's trial is over. Thank you so much for Rein Aidma! We'll continue tomorrow, Wednesday. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
