ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the seventh working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today: firstly, a draft law against corruption and secondly, a draft law on public service. The Government of the Republic is represented by Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice in the proceedings for the above-mentioned draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Socialist Group of the Riigikogu, I will refer the inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The inquiry concerns measures to alleviate child poverty. We have 63000 children living in deep poverty or at risk of poverty. A whole set of key issues is related to the children's growth environment, which determines human development and participation in society as an adult. Poverty also means limited learning opportunities for children, a lack of social contacts, often health problems, low self-esteem and the risk of addiction. Poverty has increased in the difficult economic conditions of recent years, and it is the situation of children that has worsened. Studies have also shown risk factors for poverty. These include one or more unemployed family members, single parents, families rich in children and family members in need of care. Since children themselves have little opportunity to improve their situation, it is the duty of the state to support parents in raising their children. This is also required by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. As a result, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Now some messages. Wednesday, s. On 7 March, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I have forwarded an inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U6	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item on today's agenda is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Social Benefits Act for Disabled Persons and the State Pension Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Helmen Hunt, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Committee, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U7	Good morning. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic s. a The first reading of the Bill 159 amending the Social Benefits Act and the State Pension Insurance Act, which was initiated on 9 January, was completed on 8 February. On the proposal of the Social Committee, the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting amendments at 12 noon on 13 February. Two amendments to the draft were received by the deadline for tabling amendments, both from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The preparation of the second reading of the draft law took place in the Committee on Social Affairs on 20 February. a. The meeting was attended by Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, Adviser to the Minister of Social Affairs Anni Tooma, Adviser to the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Anu Irval, Legal Adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Kersti Berendsen-Koržets and Expert Adviser to the Social Services and Expert Review Department of the Social Insurance Board Alvi Tellmann. The amendments proposed by the Group of the Social Democratic Party intended to exclude from the wording of the provisions of § 1 and § 2 the 'experts' authorities' and left the right of access to the health information system only to the expert physician of the Social Insurance Board. The purpose of the amendment was also to ensure that people who do not agree with the electronic processing of their health data are kept under the old regime and that data on the extension of their disability, permanent incapacity for work or temporary incapacity for work are processed on paper. Now the draft debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. The amendments were not supported by the Commission, as the representative of the Social Insurance Board claims that the circle of persons working with sensitive personal data does not extend. Even now, these data are processed by specialists who prepare materials for the expert doctor at the Social Insurance Board. In the future, it will be done simply in the health information system. The draft states that the social security officer will not have access to all sensitive personal data, but will have limited access and the composition of the personal data will be precisely fixed. An official of the Social Insurance Institution shall perform only technical tasks and his work shall be aimed at verifying that the data are available and sufficient. If the data are not sufficient, the social security officer has the right to contact a doctor or family doctor for further information. The processing of personal data is said to be even safer, as the social security officer is currently also able to read the content of the health statement. Another important issue that was addressed by the Commission was the granting of consent. For the purpose of determining disability or identifying incapacity for work, the person shall give his or her consent in accordance with the draft. If the applicant does not consent, the procedure will not be initiated, but the administrative body will have an obligation to explain to the person why the consent is necessary and that it is in the human interest. The administrative body therefore has an obligation to explain. Members of the Commission have been briefed on how the process takes place in practice. Questions were also raised regarding the deadlines for IT development. The officials of the Ministry assured the members of the Commission that IT developments were so far ahead that there were no obstacles to the implementation of the new system. The system will soon be handed over to the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Commission decided as follows: The amendments tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party are essentially related, listed as one amendment and voted together. There were 2 Commission members in favour of the proposal, 6 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported by the Commission. The Committee on Social Affairs unanimously proposed that the second reading be placed on the plenary agenda today, 6 March. The Commission's third decision was also consensual: if the second reading is completed today, the third reading would be carried out on 8 March and the draft law adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U8	Thank you very much, Mr Helmen Hunter. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Two amendments to the draft law have been tabled. Let's go through them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has rejected the proposal. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U9	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U10	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 has also been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Steering Committee has rejected the proposal. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U11	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U12	Please! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have examined all the amendments. Second reading of bill 159 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U13	The first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendments to other laws begins. Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Justice of the Speaker's Office, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! To begin with, I must say right now that this is, of course, a very good draft. First of all, I will speak with your kind permission in the background of this bill and in the Saami School, as there are quite a number of people in the Chamber who were not here during the previous Riigikogu. On 17 February 2011, the Riigikogu passed the Act amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws. This Act repealed Section 8 of Chapter 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, entitled "Gathering evidence by means of a surveillance operation'. The Code of Criminal Procedure was supplemented by Chapter 31, Surveillance Operations, the repeal of the Surveillance Act and the clarification of the surveillance activities in a number of other special laws. At the time of the entry into force of the Amending Act, 1 January 2012 was foreseen. Before that, on 17 May 2011, the Chancellor of Justice had submitted a proposal No 12 to the Riigikogu concerning the notification and control of surveillance activities. The Chancellor of Justice found that § 121 (1) (4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and § 17 (1) (4) of the Surveillance Act and § 12615 (2) and (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, are contrary to § 13 (2), § 14, § 15 (1) and 44 (3) of the Constitution in conjunction with § 44 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which does not provide for the organisation of effective and systematic supervision of the postponement of the notification of the surveillance operation, and in so far as it is possible not to notify the person of the surveillance operation at all due to the postponement of the notification. The President of the Republic has also drawn attention to the possible conflict with the Constitution with the regulation of surveillance activities. The Act was announced on 9 March 2011, but then representatives of the various authorities met with the President of the Republic and found that changes to the regulation were needed in the interests of accuracy. On 28 March 2011, a Working Group on Legal Regulation Analysis of Surveillance Activities was set up in the Ministry of Justice to analyse the conduct of surveillance activities and the justification and feasibility of restricting the fundamental rights and freedoms of persons involved in these activities. The group was tasked with developing, where appropriate, proposals for legislative changes. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the working group included Priit Pikamäe, the representative of the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu, Jaan Ginter, the Director General of the Data Protection Inspectorate Viljar Peep or his appointed representative Maris Juha, the Attorney General of the State Norman Aas, the representative of the Estonian Bar Association Jaanus Tehver, the representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Priit Heinsoo, the Chairman of the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu Marko Pomerants and the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu Rait Maruse. A representative of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, Saale Laos, also took part in the working group meetings. The result of this committee's work is now before you. The aim of this draft is to modernise the regulation of surveillance activities, to align it with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the case law, as well as with the Constitution. The law provides for narrower conditions than the law in force for surveillance activities and excludes from the scope of surveillance activities activities which are not by their nature surveillance activities. That's how it's been written in the explanatory memorandum. Now to the most important, i.e. what changes are planned to be introduced into Estonia's legal order. First of all, the owner's request and the ring of surveillance activities are deleted. According to the draft, it is regulated as follows: In criminal proceedings, the owner's request is a simple request from the processer, the call distinction can be made with the permission of the prosecutor. This is to maintain control over these operations. In a misdemeanour procedure, the owner's request is a simple request from the processer; a call distinction can be made with the permission of the court. However, in a misdemeanour procedure, this request cannot be made by all processors, but only by the Police and Border Guard Board, the Kapo, the Tax and Customs Board, the Data Protection Inspectorate, the Financial Inspectorate and the Environmental Inspectorate. Speech can also only be made in a single query, i.e. a specific call, a specific e-mail and a specific communication session. In particular, there is a practical reason to exclude these activities from the range of surveillance activities. They do not infringe the fundamental rights of individuals to such an extent that there should be surveillance activities. In the current regulation, there is also no possibility of making a owner's request or a call distinction publicly. Even if, for example, the suspect himself submits an alibi that he was in another place at the time the crime was committed, or asks for an extract of his calls to be verified, the request for the location of the mast or the call identification can only be made as a tracking operation, which is in turn contrary to the principle of secrecy of the surveillance operation. Similarly, the current law does not allow for the making of a speech distinction for certain crimes which, due to the smallness of the sanction, do not allow for tracing. For example, in the case of threats, if this is done by means of communication, the owner's request is quite elementary, but it cannot be done because it is a tracking operation. At the same time, the draft maintains the control through the prosecutor's office and through the court's permission in misdemeanour proceedings. Valid ultima ratio: an action can only be performed if other procedural procedures prevent the taking of evidence or are significantly difficult to obtain. In the award procedure, these actions are particularly necessary to combat online fraud, if the value of the property is less than 64 euros, and to combat spam. For example, the Data Protection Inspectorate cannot currently fight against spaming, as IP address identification would be a tracking operation and cannot be done in a misdemeanour procedure. That's quite a practical problem. Secondly, monitoring of the notification of surveillance activities will be stepped up. They're bringing in a court-martial check. The general rule is that a person whose family or private life has been seriously affected by a surveillance operation must be informed immediately after the surveillance operation has been carried out. If there are grounds for non-notification, the prosecutor's office shall give its initial authorisation. If a year passes after a surveillance operation and the prosecutor continues to consider that there is a ground for not informing the person, he or she shall refer the request to the court, which shall decide whether to inform him or her. The grounds for non-notification shall also be specified. The basis for promoting crime, for example, is excluded. According to the Chancellor of Justice, this basis is contrary to the Constitution. The draft also amends the existing law. If the rest of the surveillance package enters into force from 1 January 2013, the grounds for non-communication in the current Code of Criminal Procedure and the Surveillance Act would enter into force immediately after the adoption of the draft as a law in order to ensure faster protection of fundamental rights of persons. Thirdly, in an urgent case, the authorisation of surveillance activities will be transferred to the court. At the same time, there must be the possibility, in urgent cases, i.e. mainly at night, of authorising certain crimes without complying with the usual strict formalities, for example when the person's life and health are at risk. An example is kidnapping, taking a hostage. In this case, speed is critical. The bill sets out the minimum requirements that must be stated in the so-called "form-free" permit, which must be given in a manner that allows reproduction (e.g. date and time, authorisation, action, the person to whom the operation is carried out). A valid full application and authorisation shall be completed within 24 hours. We also set out which cases are urgent: when someone's health, life, freedom, or a high value asset are at risk. The current law does not impose such restrictions. In 2010, there were four cases of urgency, two of which were considered justified by the Court, one was unjustified, in one case legalised a so-called "prolonged' authorisation, or gave a new authorisation. In 2011, there were five urgent licences, all of which were considered ex post justified by the Court. Crimes include extortion, hostage-taking, murder, and a major drug crime. Fourthly, we will specify the number of persons who may be subject to surveillance. This provision means that the law states what is already in practice: it is still mainly the suspect and, in certain cases, the person who communicates with the suspect that can be traced. For example, in the case of extortion, the victim's eavesdropping, which usually takes place in his own knowledge, in the case of wanted relatives, for example, if a person is known to be in contact with his mother or the like. The conduct of surveillance activities in relation to a third party shall always be justified on a case-by-case basis. The current law does not delimit the circle of persons at all. Fifthly, the law introduces a catalogue of crimes for which surveillance activities can be carried out. Since the phone records are out of the range of surveillance activities, a circle of crimes must also be brought together for which surveillance activities can be carried out. The number of crimes that allow surveillance will decrease in the future. Sixthly, a new and clear complaint mechanism will be established. It must be clear to the person where and how he can complain about surveillance and all that. According to the Ministry of Justice, it is important that a complaint can be filed until the Supreme Court, i.e. the Supreme Court. Seventhly, third party rights will be better protected. Where intelligence material is stored in a criminal file, such disclosures shall be made under the Public Information Act, such as for a journalist, and the identity of persons who are not accused shall be removed or covered. Where a hearing is open to the public and covers, inter alia, the results of a surveillance operation, it is indispensable to disclose third party data in so far as it is necessary for the resolution of a criminal case. For example, if the debate on the corruption case reveals that the accused official has also communicated the fact of the crime with his colleagues, these speeches between the accused and his colleagues may be published at the hearing, as well as hearing colleagues as witnesses if necessary. At the same time, as regards the perception of the integrity of the case, the intelligence of third parties who do not have any material implications may also be included in the subject matter. For example, there are photographs of hidden surveillance, where there are outsiders in the background, etc. Such information shall be covered if the person not party to the proceedings subsequently goes to the court to examine the file. Before I finish, I would point out that the draft requires a majority of the votes in favour of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. As a representative of the Government, I certainly support the completion of the first reading. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U15	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U16	Thank you for this thorough and constructive presentation. But maybe you're going to elaborate on a few more particularly important changes that will be in force when this bill becomes a law? I am thinking precisely of the violation of the fundamental rights of individuals. How has the state started to see that the barricade occurs only when it is absolutely necessary, so that it does not just happen when it comes to surveillance, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U17	Thank you. This question is very precise and hits the core of the entire bill. The bill is embedded in this spirit in order to better protect people's fundamental rights. I think that is one of the most important aspects of this draft. It will certainly provide institutions and persons who, in one way or another, carry out discreet surveillance of people with more precise frames, in which case something can be done. I read the members of the task force earlier. This working group is broad-based and the debate has really been broad. I expect this issue to be discussed in depth in Parliament as well. However, if you look at the most important aspects of this draft, one that the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out is that people will be informed more in the future and the control of information will be better if someone's privacy or privacy is violated by surveillance. Secondly, in urgent cases, however, the granting of these authorisations falls under the jurisdiction of the Court. That's one thing long awaited. There's been a possible interference with the Constitution. In addition, a catalogue of crimes (which did not exist before) needs to be made clear in which case a trace may be carried out. I think that all these changes are clearly aimed at ensuring that fundamental rights of individuals can be better protected. Perhaps the last important thing I read out is that third parties who are not involved in this case will be protected in relation to the files. If the file is subsequently examined, it will no longer be possible to make press passes that could harm anyone who is not really involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U18	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! It is undoubtedly a good thing to improve control over the failure to notify surveillance activities. But I have a background question: Do you have any idea how much of the trackers are being informed now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U20	Thank you. We have also discussed this issue in your committee. As we understand, the estimates are different and approximate. That is why I am simply saying that, as a direction and principle, this draft, which we have brought before the Riigikogu and which you are going to look at and decide on, will significantly increase the information to individuals about the invasion of their privacy in one way or another. I'm not saying a percentage, because it's always very approximate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U21	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In life, it is often the case that the laws are quite good in some cases, but one or the other is revealed because if the laws are not exactly enforced, the good results will not be achieved. My question is this: will the courts not grant these licences too formally, perhaps because of the excessive burden on the courts? Information on one of the ongoing processes was recently reviewed by the press. The person was eavesdropped for 650 days and was granted an extension every two months. It makes it look like the court did it formally. Does this law also allow these frameworks to be made more secure if the law is not strictly enforced?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U23	Thank you. I cannot imagine that surveillance activities can be carried out in Estonia in a way that does not comply with the law. If this were done in the way you described it, it would be illegal surveillance. As you know, the Penal Code states what follows when someone carries out illegal surveillance. I dare say that courts do not look at these things in any way superficially or formally. I think we will continue to discuss this in the Special Committee on Security Oversight, because I know that there was this issue up there. Obviously, we are also discussing in other committees whether any further improvements are needed. However, in my opinion, illegal surveillance in Estonia is currently excluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U24	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U25	Thank you. Mr. Minister! One topic might need to be clarified more than you did in your explaining speech. It's a phone record like that. What does it mean that it isn't a violation of a person's rights that you can just find out who's calling him and who he's calling? Isn't that a violation of my fundamental rights at a level that requires a surveillance clearance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U26	Thank you. I hope I understand the question correctly. It was also found in the working group that in individual cases the discourse could be excluded from surveillance activities, as this would not violate the fundamental rights of individuals to the extent that there should be a tracking exercise. I must point out at once that, perhaps, I did not mention that none of these operations can be carried out without a valid procedure. There must always be a valid procedure for carrying out any operation. No one can imagine that a police officer or anyone else is just gonna start looking at someone's phone records or anything. However, this cannot be done without the current procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U27	Please, Mr Kalla, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The answer to my first question gave the impression that the question was perhaps not very well formulated and was somewhat incomprehensible. I didn't mean illegal pursuit. If this happens with the court's permission, it's legal in any case. My emphasis was that these permits might be granted too formally. However, if two and a half years have been extended for two months, there are doubts that the matter has simply been approached formally. My emphasis was that, from the aside, it may seem that this is happening too formally. I didn't mean illegal activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U29	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U30	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I have a broader question. First of all, I am pleased that the exceptions to the authorisation of the surveillance operation, which was previously in force, have now disappeared, in accordance with the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group, which was rejected. That's my question. Until last year, during the same coalition, the Ministry decided that this was not a violation of fundamental rights and that it excluded the rules for issuing an emergency permit for surveillance operations from the Code of Criminal Procedure, but now the new minister has understood that it is a breach of the Constitution and there should be no exceptions. How did such a change of heart occur in one view of the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U32	Thank you. There are many different colors and facets in the world view. But it's nothing to do with a modest minister. I read about the composition of this long working group, in which the chairmen of the Riigikogu committees and representatives of constitutional institutions, various authorities have also participated. I think what was achieved is the fruit of the joint work. I can assure you that my predecessor, too, was a great admirer of constitutional order and freedom. This is not a change of heart, but rather a build-up of human wisdom over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U33	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Would you comment on the exclusion from the catalogue as a whole of crimes against intellectual property, as it is possible to collect evidence through other procedural procedures? Extend that position a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U35	Thank you. I know that the wish has been expressed in the Riigikogu to go through this catalogue in greater depth in order to clarify which crimes are possible. In general, however, the principle should be that if evidence can be collected by other means, it does not have to be used for surveillance purposes. However, in a democratic civilised society, the pursuit should be the last resort. If it is possible to obtain information in any other way or to dissuade suspicion, it must be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U36	Please, Mr Linde, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In principle, the purpose of surveillance activities can be divided into two. Firstly, defence-related national security objectives. The second objective is prevention, prevention. Does this draft regulate the reconciliation or exchange of information obtained for various purposes and methods? Is that question also marked there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U38	Thank you. As you know, one is the side of criminal proceedings and the other is the information procurement side, if you could say so. Information obtained by means of information procurement methods in general shall not be used in criminal proceedings. An exemption will be possible only with the permission of the Attorney General in the future. To this end, a sufficiently high level has been set to prevent information procurement methods, methods and tools from being used in criminal proceedings. It is difficult for me to comment on the practice, but I think it has been used once, twice or three times at all. It's a very approximate number, and it doesn't suggest absolute truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U39	Please, Mr Peep Aru, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U40	Thank you. Good minister! You couldn't tell me the proportion of surveillance activities reported to those affected. I ask this question: is there any way in this draft that such statistics are regulated in order to know exactly how many people have been tracked and how many have been informed about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U41	This is also one of the things we discussed in your committee. Your committee proposal was to create some kind of register for this. Of course, a certain mechanism must be created. This mechanism must indicate relatively automatically when this period will be completed and must indicate when the court has decided to postpone the notification for a certain period. There must be some mechanisms that collect information and signal when it needs to be reviewed or on which basis statistics can be compiled. I think it's coming out of these mechanisms or this software.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U42	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! It's good to hear you one way or the other. Your story is smooth and straight, but there won't be any numbers. I'd like to hear a few numbers. I have heard that 80% of the people are not informed that they are being eavesdropped, and in a good case, only 20% will know about it. When this bill becomes a law, will these figures suddenly go the other way, that at least 80% will find out and 20% won't find out? I think we're going that way, but is that a big step? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U44	Thank you. I would estimate these figures, the future proportion of the notification, to be about the same. Experts estimate that it will be about 80:20 in the future. At present, this situation is not the opposite. How did this Finnish ski celebrity Matti Nykänen say? Fifty: sixty, all right. I think it's that way. At least that's an expert assessment. But once again, I can't say the exact number.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U45	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, somewhere in the newspaper, this data went through quite badly. Whether it was the journalist's fault or the Attorney General's fault, it's a separate question. The statistics are ugly. In the West, some indicators are known to assess the country's degree of democracy. For example, Estonia has been laughed at because we wanted to classify documents that are classified for a year or two or three elsewhere in the world for 75 years. On this basis, Estonia has been found to belong to countries that are very lagging behind by general statistics or indicators. It's not like we're gonna be running statistics on all kinds of communications, is it? It's not like we're gonna get into a bad light, is it? Maybe that's why we shouldn't be so hard on statistics. Comparison with Europe as to whether the data are comparable or not, whether they become comparable or not, and whether we are in good or bad writing, that was the point of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U47	Thank you. I do not think that the situation is so bad, but even if the situation is bad, I do not think that we should, therefore, be honest about statistics and guaranteeing the protection of fundamental human rights. I think it has to be done. In any case, this draft will ensure that people are informed, that fundamental rights are better protected. That is the purpose of this bill. Statistics can also be produced on the basis of this draft, giving an overview. The Data Protection Inspectorate is also under the administration of the Ministry of Justice. There is no unnecessary secrecy. Of course, there are exceptions to surveillance activities, the persons who do so must be protected, these instruments and this methodology must be protected. But I do think that the current draft will also take a clear step forward in terms of information, which the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out in terms of fundamental rights. So I think it's a step forward in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U48	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U49	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum states that the purpose of the law is to bring the regulation of surveillance activities into line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the case law. I have a question in this regard: does this mean that the current regulation, which has been in place for quite a long time, does not meet the requirements of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U50	Thank you. Justice and understanding will evolve over time. Accordingly, our understanding must also change. As you can understand, there has been a great deal of fundamental changes here. I described that people's information would be better, that the granting of surveillance permits would be controlled by the court, that the court would grant these emergency permits. All of the steps we are taking to establish a crime catalogue, setting out who exactly can be traced, are clear steps forward. Just as our perceptions evolve in time. Maybe we'll meet again in this hall in ten years. I'm sitting where you're sitting right now, and you're here in my place, and then I'm going to ask you the same questions as to whether the laws and the jurisdiction have evolved. Life is constantly evolving.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U51	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Minister for Justice, for your presentation and your answer to questions. I invite Kalle Jents, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U52	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and related amendments to other laws 175 on 20 February. Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, Madis Timpson, Deputy Chancellor of Criminal Policy, Kristel Siitam-Nyir and Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure Markko Künnapu attended the meeting of the Commission. There was an in-depth debate in the Commission. The Minister and other specialists gave us a comprehensive overview of the draft, as the Minister did in this Chamber. I dare say that the Commission took the same position in principle, as the Minister said in this Chamber today, that this is a good draft. Two issues attracted the greatest attention at the Commission meeting. One was the crime catalogue that was mentioned in this Chamber today. There were such opinions as to whether the judge's special permission could not, however, allow surveillance of those types of crime which are not included in this list. However, we have come to the view that it obscures the meaning of the law, and this list must still be what it is. I'm sure there's a difference of opinion here. The police or the prosecutor's office are interested in this list being longer, the defence party and perhaps also ordinary people are interested in this list being shorter. The Committee on Legal Affairs will discuss, at its next session, what types of crime should be included in this list and which are not, when we start discussing this bill further, with specialists alone. The second issue, which attracted quite a lot of attention in the Commission, was how to ensure that sensitive personal data, which are recorded as a result of surveillance activities, do not fall into public hands. The Minister in his presentation touched on this subject. Indeed, Paragraph 12612 (7) of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that when the criminal file is disclosed, the persons who were not accused in the criminal proceedings are removed from them or covered by the data relating to persons whose family or private life has been seriously violated. However, in the course of the debate, we have come to the conclusion that both the defence and the prosecuting party can still get to know all the materials and that there is still a risk or possibility of these examples, we know that somewhere this data leaks into the press, and that some people's private life can then be read in the press with enough delicate or even picnic details. This is an issue that we in the Commission definitely want to move forward with. There was also a question of when this period of non-notification authorisation would apply. The specific answer is that, when the time limit for authorisation of surveillance activities expires, the time limit for non-notification authorisation, which is known to last up to one year, is to be extended with the permission of the court. There was also a question of what e - mail monitoring is about. However, it is not treated as a covert screening of a postal consignment, as set out in § 1266, but as a secret eavesdropping of information. I can also answer Eiki Nestor's question. He was talking about a phone call. If what was mentioned in the speeches or messages is being monitored, it is still a surveillance activity. However, the part of the phone records that has been removed from surveillance activities has been considered. It simply means the list of phone numbers that have been called or messages sent. The Commission made its decisions in a consensual manner: to send the draft to the plenary agenda on 6 March, today, to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 20 March 2012. As I said, all decisions were indeed made in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U53	Thank you very much, Mr Jents. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! You were talking about the fact that there was quite a bit of talk in the Commission about exceptions, in which case it might and in which case it did not. How did the Commission think that there should be many or few of these exceptions? I think the less the better. But how was the Commission's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U55	Thank you. I understand this is about the crime catalog. Yeah, no exceptions, that list has to be what the law says, not that it can go to the judge. That would essentially mean that surveillance would be possible for all types of crime, and then we would go in the opposite direction. Rather, this issue must be renegotiated very thoroughly with all the parties concerned, so that the list is exhaustive. Indeed, there are other ways of proof; surveillance is far from the only way to collect evidence. Most cases are other evidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U56	Please, my colleague Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm just giving you a little support. In the meantime, there has been a great deal of talk about how this is being communicated and whether everyone involved will be informed. Take a look at page 8, where § 12613 is. If you read Paragraph 12613 (1) of the directive, does it not appear that not all people with whom this person, for example, is being eavesdropped, have personal identification at all? When someone talks about sailing with Toomas Tõnis, for example, it is of no interest to the research bodies, and Toomas Tõniste, as a person, remains unidentified at all and therefore does not need to be sent any letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U58	Yes, indeed, the subject of information has been dealt with very thoroughly in § 12613. When it was said that many cases are not notified, these 15 days are also very clear here. Before the expiry of the time limit, the investigating judge shall be authorised to extend the time limit for failure to notify. The investigating judge shall extend it indefinitely or for a limited period. In the course of the preliminary examination of the draft proposal, I also looked at these amendments, and there was also a dispute as to whether to grant an extension of the time limit, whether it should be at all, so that perhaps there should always be an extension of the deadline. If there's a deadline, it'll have to be reviewed if the deadline passes, otherwise it might start to linger and sort of dim.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U59	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Jents. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I call on my colleague, Andres Anvelt, as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U60	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came here too to tell you that this is a very good bill. Why is that particularly good? This draft law, as I mentioned to the Minister when he asked the question, takes account of the amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group concerning the alignment of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the Constitution. We proposed this during the summer, but unfortunately it was rejected in this Chamber last autumn. The purpose of the proposal was to rule out the possibility of breaching, without the permission of the court, the confidentiality of the message which is possible under the current law in cases of urgency. The wording of our group's amendment is now quite similar to that of the draft law. I would like to point out that the coalition could take more account in the future, as is often said, of these sensible, rather than so political, world-view, opinions already in the process of preparing drafts. I imagine that then the concept of the Riigikogu as a rubber stamp would certainly begin to fall into history. Especially in an area such as law enforcement, many things are world-sighted or cross-political. I hope that there will be no such situation as to vote out what will be incorporated in a slightly different wording in six months' time. It is certainly possible for coalition politicians to find a better wording, because behind them is, as they say, not Moscow, but the ministries. I hope that cooperation will be better in the future. Believe me, this will help us achieve the best quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U61	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 175 amendments at 16 a.m. on 20 March. The first reading of Bill 175 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U62	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Mental Aid Act, the Penal Register Act, the Penal Care Act and the Health Services Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Kristen Michal, the Minister of Justice, to serve as a waitress again!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Once again, this is a very good bill. Although this bill is not very long, it has worked hard. I believe that if this bill becomes a law, it will benefit the whole of Estonia. So, what's this long-named bill gonna regulate? If you answer this question briefly, it must be said that this bill creates prerequisites for the treatment of sex offenders, provided that they agree to it themselves. If you try to further define the purpose of the draft, it can be said that the aim of the draft is to allow treatment as an alternative to imprisonment for the sentenced person, if the person has committed the offence because of a mental disorder that is being treated or controlled and there is a risk that he will commit another similar offence in the future. Surely many have wondered how these people will be treated and whether scissors or pliers will come into play. Unfortunately, or fortunately, there are no draft scissors or forceps. The treatment consists of subjecting a person to inpatient or outpatient care aimed at treating or controlling a mental disorder which caused the offence, and the consent of the sentenced person itself is an indispensable prerequisite for the application of the treatment. Predictably, I say that complex treatment of sex offenders applies only to adults. The target group for treatment is therefore sex offenders who have also been diagnosed with paedophilia or any other sexual orientation disorder (parafilia) and who agree to receive treatment. For the purposes of the draft, complex treatment of sexual offenders consists of combined medical treatment and psychotherapy (therapy/advisory) intended to treat or control a person's sexual orientation disorders. The draft therefore aims to provide a clear basis for the application of complex treatment of sex offenders. I do not think that, in terms of time savings, there is a need to dwell on the regulations of other countries. These examples are given in the explanatory memorandum to the draft act. Anyone who has an interest can look more closely for themselves. What changes in particular are planned to be introduced into the existing legal order? I'll stop them for a while. First, § 69 of the Penal Code in force becomes a general treatment clause which regulates the conditions for the application of drug addiction treatment and complex treatment of sexual offenders, provided that this provision can also be quickly and effectively supplemented with new forms of treatment in the future. Second, treatment for drug addicts within the meaning of § 692 of the Bill is considered to be a treatment for a person who has not previously been imprisoned for committing a crime because of drug addiction, and for a sexual offenders' complex treatment for an adult who committed a crime because of a sexual orientation disorder. Third, the treatment consists of subjecting a person to inpatient or outpatient care aimed at treating or controlling a mental disorder that caused the crime. A prerequisite for the application of treatment is the consent of the convicted person himself. Complex treatment of sexual offenders applies only to adults. Fourthly, treatment will be applied as a precondition for early release or as a partial replacement for imprisonment. In both cases, the person must be sentenced to six months in jail of up to two years. Finally, I would like to mention that the treatment is scheduled for 18 months to three years. The cost of complex sexual offenders treatment is reimbursed by the State. In short, this is a bill that has been widely spoken about in the public domain, which is popularly called the draft chemical castration, and which actually gives the state and society a better opportunity to keep the sex offenders, who have received a lighter sentence of up to two years, under more control and be placed on medical treatment. The treatment programmes last from 18 months to three years. I believe that every euro that has been used for this has been very well used for the safety of society, parents and children. So this is a good bill. I certainly support the completion of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U64	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! It is very nice not to use scissors or a scary curved knife, but to switch off the function of the body that was used to commit the crime with certain therapeutic techniques. But by analogy, there are other conditions that can be treated, such as kleptomania in some cases. Is it possible to create a law that allows the right hand with which the kleptomania operation was performed to be turned off by injection?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U66	Thank you. There is no such intention in relation to this draft. As a doctor, you said very well that the function of this organ would be turned off. That's exactly how the medicinal part of this treatment works. The therapeutic part ensures that the treatment procedure is successful and that the person's desire to cooperate and participate in the treatment is also available. The bill also states that if, for any reason, a person does not have treatment, even as a result of the inadequacy of adverse drug reactions, he or she will have to return to his or her sentence. That's what this bill says. Perhaps in the future, there will also be proposals to shut down other bodies, but I would rather look for this solution so that people can occasionally turn on the organ that lies between their two ears. It'd still be more useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U67	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm sure it's a good bill. Can you tell me how much this could add to the burden on the state budget, i.e. how much would a procedure like this cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U69	We have planned for the first year, when this procedure is being carried out for six months, a little over EUR 30000. Based on Nordic data, three to ten persons will be targeted during the year. For a full year, the cost is EUR 70000 to EUR 100000. That's what we've written in the explanatory memorandum. You will understand that these amounts are close, because we are just starting this treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U70	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U71	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I have this question: why must voluntary treatment necessarily be linked to a reduction in the sentence through the law? After all, the court has discretion. In fact, it should be in the interests of the subject himself to go and treat himself, whether he is a pedophile, a necrophile, a gerontophile or a zoophile. If he really is in treatment, the court may simply decide to reduce his sentence to a certain extent or, if it is not feasible, not to reduce it. Why does it have to be written into the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U72	Thank you. The question was under 'I ask, I answer'. As a doctor, you know that, in general, such treatment can only be successful if the person is interested in it. You have taken a doctor's oath, and I'm sure you are convinced today that there is not much humane people against their will to heal. That's the same question as where the border is. In other parts of the world, however, the assumption is that the person must be interested in treatment himself. In fact, this is one of the foundations of the success of the cure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U73	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I call on the speaker to Igor Gräzini, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U74	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The main content of the Act was already set out above. I would add that the Commission discussed this and all these problems and more. The overall conclusion was roughly as follows. The worst thing that can happen with this bill is that nothing changes, everything stays the way it is now. The better option is that something gets better, in other words, we can put a more limit on pedophilia, which has become a problem for us. By the way, by supporting many of Dr Vasiliev's thoughts, I must say that the weakest place in this matter is my personal position, of course, is that there are no tanks. But this bill is a step in the right direction. It wasn't until ten years ago that I found here on the remote that paedophiles could be left with the death penalty under aggravating circumstances. Unfortunately, we are not going that far with this law, but the direction is right. The Commission's consensual decision was to put this draft on the plenary agenda, to close the first reading, to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 4 p.m. on 20 March and to appoint a rapporteur here. Questions, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U75	Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. You have questions. Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U76	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Co-Rapporteur, Did you also discuss thoroughly what belongs to sexual orientation disorders outside paedophilia, or paraphilia, what types of these other disorders could be, and what percentage or percentage of them will be in Estonia, as well as the number of cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U77	The Commission discussed this. I would like to point out to my colleagues that there are amazingly many types of sexual misconduct. Sexually, it's possible to get so wrong that you won't think of it. The worst thing is, of course, that very many of these perversions actually have socially negative consequences. For example, there is a disease such as pyrolagnia, where sexual satisfaction comes from observing the fire. Imagine, there's a terrible desire to set the neighbor's house on fire! There is heterochromophilia where sex drive is the object of another race. There are many of these problems. We talked about this one problem for a simple reason. I do not know whether it is right to say that it has become more mass in Estonia. When you read newspapers and watch TV, you notice that it is not the case that paedophiles run around the streets from morning to night. But there are more. It has become all the more a problem that our supervision of children has become weaker. We don't control enough people who deal with children. There is a certain kind of'supervision' here, certainly the media also have its influence, etc. I am saying that the paedophile count has probably not increased, but it has become a more socially sensitive subject. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U78	Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U79	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to add to Peep Aru, who asked about the various forms of paraphilia. Igor, you probably quoted Wikipedia. I also looked at Wikipedia as the same concept of a combination of different sexual anomalies. Suddenly, I saw that heterosexuality was also mentioned as a form of paraphilia. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U80	To be honest, somebody's gotta stay free! That's why we're supposed to consider it normal. By the way, I'm not quoting Wikipedia, I'm quoting an official medical officer for the treatment of sex offenders. If you've already touched those different sexual deviations, I'll tell you that's a very instructive piece of work. There is another aspect behind this chemical castration, as we understood in the Commission. If, for many sexual crimes (e.g. rape, the most classic story), we can talk about a defect of will, that a person can't hold himself back, he can't control himself or he has been raised in such a way that he thinks he's allowed everything, etc., then paedophilia is a morbid disorder of personality structure. I'm not setting this up for anyone, God forbid, as an example, but think a little bit about what's on the verge of pedophilia? Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita. What do you say to that? One more trick ahead and we're already at Imre Rammul! Or, well, Ingmar Bergman's Fanny and Alexander. In the case of pedophilia, we are not only talking about punishing a crime that has been committed directly, but we are also talking about the need to discourage and treat this person. At the same time, the Commission's debate drew attention to another important point. Of course, tanks have one advantage over pills. In fact, the effect of the pills wears off over time. This means that we must take into account that these pills must be given and that conversations must continue to be blown. It's not that crunchy and ready. This is what makes paedophilia different from other sexual crimes. It's really a disease.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U81	Please, Mr Peep Aru, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U82	Thank you. I'm taking advantage of the possibility that the co-rapporteur is on the remote. I must apologise, because unfortunately I have not had time to read this bill thoroughly. But to clarify the picture, I ask: does chemical castration also mean that the castrates cannot live a normal sex life in our sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U83	That's what it looks like. I think we should castrated first and see what he's doing. But it is generally the case that the same description of medicine tells us that it is aimed at two things: on the one hand, it is not possible, as is said in Estonian, to rise and, on the other hand, there is no right will. This treatment is complex, it also suppresses sexual activity mentally. Two things are done at the same time: the tablet or injection (there are also intravenous options, e.g. one medicine) and psychological counselling, talking, etc. One doesn't help. That is why the bill says that it is a treatment that is complex in nature. So there has to be one and the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U84	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U85	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Although I myself am a member of this committee, I did not remember whether we were talking about this issue. Can you be more specific? I am asking as a representative of the Socialist Group on gender equality. There's been talk of chemical castration. This law is actually about the cure. Can only male offenders be treated, or does it also extend to the female sex, and why not to those in between?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U86	Absolutely! That's why the title of the section is 'Replacement of an oath with treatment'. We're talking about a certain treatment, but not a castration of it literally. Castration, of course, is a despicable sexist term, which makes men victims. But the cure can go there and there. The current formulation of the law actually provides an opportunity to treat everyone. But the question you asked really reflects the problem. I'm afraid we haven't been aware enough of this, even though there's been some hints. Let's just remind ourselves of the story of a week ago when a Catholic nun was essentially a pedophile and his victim was boys of 12 to 15 years of age whose psycho-traumas only come out now when they're 40 years old. So that's the problem. But the law doesn't limit it, basically it should apply to women.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U87	Please, Mr Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U88	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honourable spokesperson! Was the Commission also discussing that if chemical castration and such verbal treatment do not give the expected result, then in the future the path of physical castration could go? You said it was traumatic for a man. When we're talking about a paedophile, I think he's traumatizing these young people and children first and foremost, it's girls or boys. Was that also under discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U89	Look, dear Erki, whether you want it or not, we are in the European Union. From the point of view of the European Union, the victim is not the victim of a crime, but the victim is always the criminal. Until 2008, physical castration was possible in the Czech Republic, i.e. mechanical castration, crunch and ready. But, of course, the European Union said that it is very ugly, so you must not, you must try to speak up, and so on. I think how to say that the question of paedophilia as a whole is perhaps just now starting to pick up, because for the first time we have started talking about these things more or less. I think paedophilia's latency, or cover-up, is very high. It was also said in the Commission when we were looking for an answer as to whether we needed to treat three, ten or 30 people. The minister didn't know how to say it then. He didn't know how to say it today. How many victims are there? The scariest thing about all these things is that kids don't talk. These stories come out when they're 25, 30, 40, 50 years old and those pedophiles are already dead. I think one very important point of this law is, firstly, that we have started talking about it here. Secondly, we admit that this is a problem. I think it'll actually help us find out what's going on around us. Perhaps from the point of view of protecting children, that is precisely what is most important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U90	Please, Mr Erki Arrow, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U91	Thank you. I'm going a little further on this. In order to circumvent European laws or practice, can we not use the jock scheme, namely to perform gender-change operations for these people? After that, these paedophiles with a bad reputation could become media heroes, they could be on the cover of the Chronicle, present their singing career, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U92	Frankly, the point is that the Riigikogu's ability to influence the content of the Chronicle is still extremely limited. But what you point out is that these sexual manipulations, all these sex changes, circumcisions and other things, have become part of a kind of popular culture and that criminal behaviour towards minors is actually happening in its shadow. It is all the more good that we have raised this issue at law level. I think that if we adopt this law one day, it will probably take another year or two or three years, and then we will see what has happened, whether we go on, whether we will make the law better and smarter, whether we will make it more effective. In short, the first results must begin to appear. At this point, however, it is a very large part of the experiment that has been carried out, I think, of the very good will and faith of all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U93	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? I call on my colleague Peter Võsa as a representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U94	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill, in addition to number 176, has received one name here; this bill is called the draft law on chemical castration. The debate on the bill has been mainly about sex offenders or even paedophiles. However, I see one aspect that has not been given enough attention during the debate. In fact, if there is domestic violence, such as rape, such things are still coming up, and it is perpetrated by a person who is not basically a serial rapist, he should sit in prison for what he has committed, is there no danger that those who have committed this kind of act, instead of serving their sentence in prison, will be treated at the expense of the state on the basis of their own free will, which they do not really need? It's nicer to be free from treatment than to be in prison. Let us not be misled by the resounding expressions that have been used in the debate, but also by the possible dangers. Consider the case of Avo, a player known to be a game addict in the light of the so-called Law on Debt Protection, if they wanted to be good, but this had the opposite effect in society. Once again, small crooks hang on the gallows and the big ones ride in the carriage. It's generally a good thing, but my call is for us to think a little bit more and make this law even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U95	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. The Minister of Justice also wishes to participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm just gonna say a few comments at the end of this. There was much excitement when a well - known legal philosopher, Igor Gräzin, presented his visions of how this activity could be carried out. Firstly, I would point out that the draft explanatory memorandum describes the target group and the number of these people. Fifty-six people are convicted of sexual crimes in Estonia a year, for example 300-400 in Denmark, while three or four new people begin treatment. For example, in Finland, 470 sex offenders were convicted in 2007, it has been estimated that the maximum number of people in need of treatment per year is 10. Consequently, these figures are also clearly foreseeable. Both the Ministry, the Minister and the Committee on Legal Affairs know how big this target group can be. I can make a second point on a somewhat dilettante level. Imre Rammul was mentioned here. From what he has said, I dare to believe that, under certain conditions, it is possible for this treatment to continue a healthy sexual function and to establish healthy relationships. That was at least his assessment as a psychiatrist. Peter Võsa drew attention to the third aspect. These threats have been thought through. However, we are talking in this programme about those who will be punished for less than two years. This programme, however, lasts from 18 months to three years. We thought, in doing this program and considering it, that such people should be under better control for society, not that someone simply replaces their punishment with treatment, is therefore out there and will only get a bag of pills that he will have to consume over the years. That is not the case, it is an effective treatment. If the treatment is discontinued, even if the medicine is not suitable, the person must go back to prison to pay the penalty. So there will be no compromise, rather the safety of society and children will increase. That is the purpose of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U97	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I'm closing the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 176 draft amendments at 16 a.m. on 20 March. First reading of Bill 176 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U98	The final item on our agenda is the debate on the draft Action Plan 'Estonian Maritime Policy 2011 But before I invite the Minister to speak, I'll show you how we deal with it. First, the presentation of the draft action plan is up to 20 minutes and then the presentation of the representative of the commission is also up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. All members of the Riigikogu may participate in the negotiations and at the end of the discussion the Riigikogu will not take the decision. The good minister is already on the speaker's desk. Please, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U99	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The government has submitted to the Riigikogu a national development plan 'Estonian Maritime Policy 2011 First of all, a few words about the birth story of this development plan. Social demand for a country's comprehensive maritime policy has been a long time, and this has been said for more than ten years. It took more than two years to prepare and the process was broad-based. We involved partners from the public sector, business associations, civil society associations, more than 30 (Maritime Advisory Board, Estonian Shipowners' Association, initiative group of small ship builders, Logistics and Transit Association, Estonian Ports Association, Coastal Koda, Tallinn University of Technology, Estonian Maritime Academy, etc.). Indeed, all persons involved in maritime affairs were involved in the work in Estonia in one way or another. The result of this work is on your tables and is yours to appreciate. Is it all satisfactory? I don't think so. However, I believe that just as we do not have to start with the Estonian maritime industry from scratch today, so maritime policy is also a central part of our understanding and principles today, and it will certainly create a better prerequisite for joint action to ensure that we make better use of and preserve the sea around us. The document, of course, relates to a wide range of other development plans, the explanatory memorandum and the plan itself are also listed. Many of the questions that may be bothered by readers and stakeholders may not be answered in detail in the Maritime Policy Development Plan, which is why I suggest that we also look at the related development plans, which are more than 15. We have proposed that this document be valid until 2020. However, its key principles have certainly been written and proposed with a longer-term perspective. 2020 has been chosen to bring maritime policy as one of the country's strategic documents into the same perspective as most other development plans. As we consider the implementation of this document, we also take into account the fact that several sums of money are involved in the current negotiations on the financial perspective of the European Union for the period 2014 to 2020. In this sense, maritime policy is seen as one of the first strategic documents that will certainly give political ideas, principles for future decisions within the financial perspective. In the case of maritime policy itself, I would like to highlight three main points. First of all, maritime transport is an important industry and we think that the opportunities of this industry are far from being exhausted, but rather that it is still underutilised. The sector's added value is higher than the average value added of the Estonian economy. Maritime transport accounts for a significant proportion of exports, maritime transport accounts for 20% of the exports of services, and rail transport directly linked to it accounts for 20%. If we look at the rankings of Estonia's most successful companies based on one indicator or another, we usually find a lot of Estonian maritime-related companies in one way or another, be they the Port of Tallinn, Tallink, international companies such as Vopak and many others. Another aspect of maritime policy is the state of the Baltic Sea environment. We can say briefly that the environment in the Baltic Sea is worrying or poor, it certainly needs to be improved and maritime policy needs to draw attention to this. Thirdly, maritime transport is fragmented between several ministries and agencies, so it makes sense to organise activities and better share tasks in order to improve cooperation and create synergies. Growth in the sector and the preservation of the marine environment are contrary objectives, but we want to find a reasonable balance here. Maritime policy highlights five main lines of action. Firstly, the business environment in the maritime sector, which we want to shape into a business-friendly and internationally competitive environment. The second is maritime safety, safety and cleanliness of the marine environment. Of course, our aim is to increase safety, to make maritime transport safer and to improve the marine environment. The third strand concerns public activities. They must be well coordinated and geared towards maritime development, and not only internally. Given that many issues are decided on in maritime affairs at international level, at European Union level, it is necessary to ensure a coherent approach to the protection of national interests. The fourth strand is Estonian marine education and science. We want the development plan to contribute to a more modern level of marine education, research and development. The fifth strand is the improvement of the coastal living and visitation environment. We want to increase its attractiveness by encouraging the development of maritime tourism, as well as local entrepreneurship, and by transferring to generations the maritime cultural heritage that we know goes back thousands of years. We therefore want to make better use of the potential of the blue economy, while taking into account the natural environment and improving the coastal environment. I will only try to touch on a few issues in my report, because it is simply not possible to deal with all maritime issues in time. First of all, criticism. There has been criticism that maritime policy does not take the marine environment sufficiently into account. That's partly true. In the current document, the measures of the marine environment are not as detailed as those of the maritime economy. This is not due to our desire or a lack of emphasis, but to the fact that actions to protect the marine environment taking into account all factors affecting the sea, including land-based pollution, will be addressed in the Marine Strategy to be developed by 2015 in accordance with the European Union Framework Directive. Then we will also add these activities to the maritime policy document. The second area is ports and logistics. We can say that ports and logistics are now the cornerstone of our maritime affairs. In this area, we see two objectives. Firstly, we need to keep the customers and markets that we have developed today, and secondly, we need to find new markets and open up new opportunities for our companies operating in the port and logistics sectors. In order to keep existing customers, we cannot sit back, they are not guaranteed to us, given the increasing international competition. We must constantly improve the quality of our services, keep the competitive advantage we have in front of our immediate neighbours. Let us admit that most of this is to be done by the private sector, but the state can also make a significant contribution here. Whether initiatives such as the electronic maritime state, which makes the paperwork of ships entering ports electronic, or the Short Sea Shipping Centre, which helps customers to quickly find information and contact. It is certainly important to develop our icebreaking capacity to keep existing customers. Let us repeat once again that Estonia needs two new icebreakers. One should definitely belong to the state, the other may be owned jointly by a private company that uses it elsewhere during ice-free times. This may seem like a rental, but there is still one important difference: no one wants to make long-term leases on their ships and hope that every year we find a ship that can be rented for the winter. It would be too risky and would question the credibility of our transport corridor. Secondly, we need to find new markets and groups of goods and services. This has, of course, been acknowledged a long time ago, but I dare say that it is only in recent years that we have also taken very concrete steps in this regard. With the support of the state, a logistics cluster has been created to make companies work with the state to make Estonia aware of our potential markets as a transport channel. This means actively looking for new markets, working to create new services, given the importance of cooperation between maritime companies, rail and road transport companies, as well as between airlines. We have the infrastructure of both rail and ports enough to increase the volume of goods, which is why maritime policy does not provide for large-scale investment in infrastructure, but rather so-called soft activities to expand markets. At the same time, we will create a readiness to expand the infrastructure if necessary. It's a longer perspective. In this context, the issue of improving cooperation between companies and local authorities has also been raised more broadly. The current tax system does not directly favour the establishment or establishment of enterprises in the territory of the municipality, including the expansion of port terminals or the establishment of industrial and logistics parks near ports. We would need a better system that would clearly increase the interest of local authorities to have companies operating in their territory. At the same time, there are other options than changing the tax system, such as national thematic planning. That is why we intend to analyse what would be the best way to improve cooperation between companies and local authorities in this area. As has been said, we now have ports, logistics and certainly passenger transport in a strong area of the maritime economy. In these we want to maintain and improve the situation. When it comes to growth opportunities, the growth of shipbuilding should continue to be encouraged. Well, I'm sure there's a weak cargo shipping station right now. What we have done so far needs to be substantially changed here. First of all, from the shipbuilding industry. Shipbuilding is already clearly on a growing trend and we also believe that it has great potential for development. We therefore believe that business policy for the next funding period must take into account the needs of both large and small ships, be they labour training, recruitment of experts, marketing or technology and investment. Particular attention should be paid to the construction of recreational craft, which, through the activities of the recreational craft cluster, has clearly demonstrated the ability to concentrate in order to develop on the basis of cooperation. That is why we have already decided to support the creation of a competence centre for recreational craft in Saaremaa and this activity has already started. Cargo shipping. If in other countries cargo shipping is one of the essential pillars of the development of a maritime cluster, this is not the case in Estonia. We therefore see that there could still be a fundamental change in the future, and we would ensure that Estonian shipping is subject to the same conditions of competition as shipping from other European Union countries. Yes, it would mean shipping subsidies as one option, but it must be taken into account that shipping is a global business. If we want to be successful in this business, it is not possible to do so by other rules than those that the rest of the world is following. Maritime policy does not specifically specify what these subsidies or this support scheme should be in order to achieve the return of ships to the Estonian flag and the investment of Estonian companies or companies in merchant shipping. This has been done intentionally. With the development document, we want to set a target for where to go, what the instruments are, which depends on the environment and, more specifically, on the analyses still under way. By environment, I mean the existing State aid guidelines for shipping under review at European Union level. As a result of this process, it will be determined, firstly, what Member States can do at all, and secondly, we will see what other countries will do. We must make our decisions in this context. In any case, our current calculations show that it is possible to develop such a competitive system that the amount needed for shipping subsidies will be fully borne by the taxes paid on ships entering the register. However, indirect costs incurred later on by health care costs and pensions for seafarers would be compensated by new jobs and increased added value in the maritime sector. The next issue relates to marine education. We can say that marine education is in some ways a child of concern. Marine education has also continued to receive attention in recent months and rather from a negative point of view. Here we certainly need a clear decision and long-term stability. In itself, the legal status of the Estonian Maritime Academy is not important as long as the education offered there is of high quality. Maritime policy also does not explicitly mention the legal status of the marine academy. However, let us be honest, the existence of the marine academy on its own, independence is certainly of symbolic significance and I would not underestimate it, especially if the accession plans do not include the most important plan for improving the quality of marine education. Therefore, I think that it is not worth ripping too hard here, but putting in place a longer plan to ensure the best possible development of marine education in Estonia. In maritime policy, we have formulated this maritime education concept, which should be completed by 2013. While I was talking mainly about the maritime economy so far, maritime policy has also found a more human face for maritime affairs, which is reflected in the priority of coastal living and marine culture. In order to open the sea to people, we consider it necessary to create a network of small ports. It would be a network of small ports located some 30 to 40 nautical miles from each other, whose ports meet certain service standards. We have already mapped out a potential network in cooperation with our partners and we are going to negotiate this year with port owners, local authorities and rural governments to establish a more concrete action plan. For the new budget period, we will provide investment grants to bring these ports into line with the required service standard. This network is certainly aimed at tourism, both foreign and domestic tourists, but also at opening the sea more generally for people. We cannot talk about sufficient secondary growth in the maritime sector if children and young people are unable to go to sea in their home country or, at least, in the immediate vicinity, in such a way as to be safe and pleasant. To sum it up. I very much hope that today's maritime policy debate will be constructive. Of course, the government is interested in the principles enshrined in maritime policy, but also in the more concrete lines of action, and we are also listening attentively to the positions of opposition parties. Only in this way will this maritime policy not remain another paper, but it will become a meaningful plan of activities, which will really make it possible to say emotionally that Estonia is a maritime state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U100	Thank you very much, Minister, for your presentation. Let's start with the questions. My colleague Urmas Klaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U101	Thank you, Madam President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I was pleased to hear that this maritime policy document has also paid attention to maritime education, both from the perspective of vocational education and higher education. You have already mentioned something, but I would ask you, however, to expand this issue and to talk about how comprehensive and good cooperation you have had in shaping the maritime education dimension with the Ministry of Education and Research. What are the differences between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Education? How do you think this subject of marine education could develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U102	Thank you. In the development plan, we have set out four courses of action for marine education in addition to the development of this maritime education concept, which I consider to be an important issue. In fact, the conceptual issues of marine education have so far perhaps not been discussed in a broad way, which is why various problems arise from time to time. We have also seen, in my opinion, relatively incomprehensible conflicts for the observer, which are born, then die and then be born again. I think it is important that we develop and implement the concept of marine education so that we can answer this question by which specialists, at what level, in what extent we train ourselves and to what extent we should be able to train our young people outside Estonia. The central issue that has now been raised by the Ministry of Education, and which Tõnis Lukas spoke about earlier as a minister, is still the ability of the Maritime Academy to cooperate with both universities and universities of applied sciences, as well as with vocational schools. In addition, the development plan sets out the main lines of action concerning the promotion of vocational training and higher education. These are, of course, written in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and the more serious experts in marine education. More broadly, marine education is concerned that it is often the post-graduate growth of teaching staff that is low, that there are not enough people who want to act as lecturers. This leads to certain quality problems. There's a lot of questions. My personal understanding is that before making any structural or educational changes, we should, however, once again discuss conceptual issues, consider more than just whether one real estate development will be there or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U103	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U104	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much for your brief presentation. In the first part of your presentation, you stressed that the aim of this policy was to create an internationally competitive environment for the maritime economy, but in the end you mentioned that concrete measures, say, tax and others, have not been reflected here. Knowing the birth of this document, having tried to keep up with it, it is true that the more the end, the more specific measures were taken out of it. My question here: how, and on what axis of time, could a plan be made to support the maritime sector with concrete measures? Let us be honest, this document does not yet bring ships under the flag of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U105	Thank you. Without wanting to be anything sharp about the questioner, I would say that even the best support scheme does not bring ships under anyone's flag. But there should be no so-called mental attitude that ships will certainly never come under our flag. I think we must all think that the ships want to come under the flag of Estonia, and not only the ships owned by Estonian entrepreneurs, but also the ships of other countries. At European level, as I said, there is now a debate on State aid issues for maritime support. It seems to me that there is no very revolutionary change coming in one direction or another. In other words, this possibility of State aid, which is currently based on all tax or support schemes in the EU countries in order to compete with the so-called flags of convenience, remains in force. I think we should wait for the results of this debate and then be prepared to come up with our own proposals. What I want to say is that the debate will become less ideological, first of all, let us not forget, we already have a shipping subsidy programme. After all, we support the social tax paid to the seafarers of ships flying the flag of Estonia, Estonian resident seafarers are paid from the state budget through the Enterprise Estonia Foundation. True, it hasn't changed much. I think that we should once again consider and analyse other taxes, particularly direct ones, to what extent our competitive situation is worse. That's the first thing. So here, exactly the same is the issue of income tax and also the scope of social tax. I think that we should stick to the principle of subsidies, and I say once again, as I emphasised in the report, the aim should be that subsidies should not amount to extra costs, but rather to mean additional income, which is generated by the fact that more ships operate as so-called Estonian companies. It should certainly be at least a zero-sum game in the short budget perspective. And one of the central issues, in my opinion, is that there must be a model that provides long-term certainty, whether in one way or another it is long-term contracts between the state's authorised institutions and shipping companies or other such things. There is no point in offering support schemes that are not known to be valid for this year, three, four or five years, in which case no changes will be made. One of the things that I did not touch on in the report, but which I would like to emphasise is that we have also foreseen possible activities for the creation of a'secondary ship register'. In other words, we also want to offer certain opportunities to larger ships of foreign companies. The development of the so-called business plan or approach to this secondary ship's register is somewhere in the middle. We don't really want to miss it because we have certain advantages. If we come back to the flag of ships again, we still have a relatively favourable corporate tax regime. When analysing the behaviour of companies in selecting their home country, it seems that the main issue is direct taxation, where the "basic flag states" offer very favourable conditions. We do not have to offer such favourable conditions, but this difference must not be very big, and in addition to 'zero taxing', several other positive things still depend on the flag state, which I think Estonia has.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U106	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The most important and interesting part of this development plan is a realization plan, with a very good description of the specific activity, cost, deadline and responsibility. But this plan starts in 2011-2012 and according to it we should have spent 55.5 million on these measures already last year and 60 million euros should be spent this year. We're gonna start a sacred event like a little backwards. Do you have a plan to smooth this out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U108	Thank you. In connection with the election of the Riigikogu, the Maritime Action Plan has been in this hall in some ways. When we look at activities, many of them are dealt with by the government a long time ago, including on the financial side. If we look at our financial costs, be they current costs or investments, there are significant things happening in the maritime sector at company level, also at the level of state-owned companies and in the case of the state itself. That's one side. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about its implementation. This annex is rather such an overview of possible financial resources. The issue of financial resources is certainly important. However, I think that this issue will be more central when we are discussing 2014. the financial perspective for 2008. It's a very important input. That's one. Secondly, in order to better coordinate matters within the government, regular operational programmes are planned to take a three-year step. We have not taken any operational programmes to the government, because we really expected this debate here and the views. When this debate ends and the Riigikogu has given its opinion in one way or another, the first operational programme will also come with a three-year step.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U109	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U110	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for a good presentation and thanks for the fact that this maritime policy paper has finally reached the Riigikogu. I will return to the tax incentives and the plan to compete with the so-called flags of convenience. Europe is currently known to be in a debt crisis and, therefore, in many sectors, all kinds of tax incentives and gift-sharing are quite actively being reviewed. Let us be honest, tax incentives are not only wanted by the maritime sector, but also by dozens, if not by hundreds of other sectors. What is your assessment of whether the European Union could not harmonise its behaviour in this area? After all, we will never be able to compete with the countries of convenience in the area of tax incentives. End this tax dumping between us and move towards a more coherent policy. Or is it, in your opinion, completely hopeless for historical reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U111	In 1989, the European Union, whatever its name was then, defined a common policy on how the European Community at that time could compete with the trend of European ships being registered in different countries. It's been valid since 1989. In other words, here Europe still competes, it is in global competition. As far as flags of convenience are concerned, I believe that you, the Committee on Economic Affairs and all members of the Riigikogu will also be able to see where these ships are registered. We have sufficient data on what one or the other country with a higher number of registrations offers. This certainly does not mean that these ships have so-called comfort in the sense that they are not safe or not properly handled. Very high levels of services are offered to register there; motivations are sometimes specific to these countries. However, I do think that this is the reason why the European economy is losing a lot. This comparison may not be one-to-one, but it is something similar if, for example, important or central European industries leave Europe. This would certainly hinder innovation, technological development, a number of related services, etc. for some time. So this problem, Europe's competitiveness compared to these countries, continues to exist, I share this view. I would not put the issue of tax incentives to the fore; it is more about how to overcome this competitive gap. Tax relief is often not seen here as a normal advantage that someone pays less taxes. On the contrary, if you bring a ship under your flag, then someone will pay taxes at all. In this sense, too, there is a clear logic from the point of view of public finances. I do not predict that Europe will simply forget the problem of this global competition challenge. I agree that this so-called race could be reduced within the European Union. This is the point of discussion. I very much hope that everyone here will make a perfectly honest statement on how we should operate, but I would not treat this advantage as a classic tax credit, which, I imagine, the questioner meant. Rather, it is real competition here with other countries of the European Union and also with countries outside it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U112	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U113	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! My question concerns marine education. It's known that whoever doesn't learn doesn't know and doesn't know how to do it. You spoke of marine education, visions and activities that are planned. I listened to what you said to my colleague Urmas Klaas. I have a further question: are there specific people, a specific timetable, when these visions will be completed and when will one or the other decision come?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U114	Please, colleague Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U115	Yeah, they're in this development plan too. If you look at Action 8, which is mainly about education, it also sets out the time frame.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, First of all, I also acknowledge that this document has finally gotten between the covers and even reached the Riigikogu. In your introductory speech, you said that our tax system today does not encourage the establishment of businesses, including ports and all of them, on the territory of local governments. I am sure you have wondered in the Ministry of Economic Affairs what our local tax system should be tuned into, so that the creation of businesses on the territory of local governments would be favourable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U117	Thank you. I think that's a wider question. I don't quite agree that he doesn't encourage at all. Jobs that are actually created on the territory of the municipality are most likely to employ the workforce on whom income tax is paid to the municipality's budget. There's still a certain motivation here. In my report, I stressed the problem that municipalities in whose territory there are ports might not be interested in any reasonable development of their ports. I also have several descriptions on my desk of cases where municipalities are acting strangely, but I also want to say that I understand them. There's a lot of goods going through the port, there's safety issues, there's questions about the living environment. There is no connection with the municipality between the goods passing through the port and the possible expansion of the port. Above all, it concerns such larger ports, you imagine something I'm talking about. This situation is abnormal, if we actually have a port resource, there is an interest in investing. Municipalities could act as statesmen and understand that there are general interests in this case, the development of the state's economy is of general interest and not so narrow-minded. But you see, it happens in life, things start to stretch, and we can lose investments, jobs and all that. I meant specifically that. This is somewhat analogous to the situation when there has been talk of regional power generation options such as wind generators. In this case, too, there is no real advantage to municipalities that such investments have been made on their territory. You might want to think about that. The reality today is that on several occasions companies have entered into some kind of agreement with local governments, which again does not show us as the most transparent country. What kind of arrangements does the company have to make with the municipality to keep its installation up there, rather it could be clear and interests or motivations guaranteed by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U118	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you very much! It seems to be a very substantive document and the answers are equally very substantive. Maritime affairs is truly a global business, but according to this document and in my opinion, Estonia has left its positions untapped as a maritime state. Perhaps the maritime sector should be given a more prominent place in the country than in a separate area. What is your opinion on this? Maybe we should do something at the à la sea ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U120	Thank you. I don't believe in these ministries of the sea or anything like that, I'm gonna be honest with you. The Ministry of the Environment deals with environmental issues, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior security and security issues, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so that the economy develops to make transport work. We must inevitably learn to cooperate across ministries. We just have to learn it. I'm not saying it's not going to be done, but I think it could definitely be much more effective. That's one. Secondly, I think that cooperation between the state and businesses will be a key issue, especially in a situation where we no longer have companies based on Estonian capital, but also foreign investments. These cooperation models should be honed, as maritime transport always requires such a long-term view, investments pay off over a long period of time, work produces results in a long time. These aren't half-year-olds. I think that cooperation with the private operator will certainly help. At the level of the Riigikogu, we still express our views, our principles, we show directions, and I think it is a very strong signal of our maritime affairs in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U121	Thank you. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U122	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In recent years, the Port of Sillamäe has spoken quite loudly in the competition for Estonian ports. I would like to hear the Minister's message, the opinion on the economic activity of the Port of Sillamäe in the next ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U123	I believe that if you read through this maritime policy, you will also find the answer to how the Port of Sillamäe must develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U124	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I also thank you for your thorough presentation. There are, of course, a number of priorities and objectives for the promotion of maritime affairs. This is certainly also the case with the spatial planning of our maritime areas, which is not merely a nature conservation and environmental activity. Marine planning is known to be of public and private interest, and this is also reflected at international level. Is Estonia prepared for spatial planning on the legal side? Do we have basic data and cooperation between different authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U126	Thank you. Good question. Several pages have been devoted to this topic. Today's state of play, as well as the problems and our action plans, have been highlighted. All your questions must be answered, that this is at a relatively early stage. We haven't planned sea areas spatially, let's be honest. There's been some mind exercises, but nothing more. We therefore propose such an approach that we need to deal with the methodology of spatial planning and pilot projects. Given the size of our entire sea area, it is not possible to talk about one comprehensive plan. I dare say that the objective defined under measure 7.2 that the Estonian maritime area must be planned 100% by 2020 and that the interests of all sectors, sectors and parties are also balanced as a result of the plans is a very strong objective. But since the duration of the plan is until 2020, we have written it down. Surely it requires resources. Several things in all of this policy are also fixed with a shorter view in time. Once the Ministry of the Interior has carried out the first pilot project by 2013, we will actually be able to assess whether the objective is right, what are the bottlenecks, how much the planning provides and how meaningful it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U127	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister, thank you very much for bringing this document to the Riigikogu! What is Estonia supposed to feed? These are land, forest and sea, or water. And the sea is unfortunately giving few jobs today. However, I would like to ask that I hear that the Estonian Maritime Academy is being shut down or joined by another university. After all, the marine academy itself has a symbolic meaning. How do you stand up for this not to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U129	Thank you. We have proposed a plan to do more broadly with marine education. I'm sure the Department of Education is in charge here. Once again, we could try again to discuss the conceptual issue and therefore decide on the status of the school. Certainly, the marine academy needs to consider the possibilities of cooperating with universities as well as with other universities of applied sciences; there are cooperation points here. Personally, I do not predict any success in such a legal merger, especially by force. I do not think it will be done, either, before this concept has to be established, if you support it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U130	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. When the Development Fund introduced its report last year in the Riigikogu Hall, future trends were also discussed. One vision for Estonia was that Estonia must become the Baltic Sea attraction centre. How much do you think that maritime policy will support this very ambitious vision for 20112020?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U132	Yes, the report from the Development Fund says that Estonia must be the centre of attraction in the Baltic Sea. Here's the question, what should be pulled together? Surely we would not want pollution to come to our ports and shores, which we hope will be able to drive away. Smart people, money, beautiful ships, pleasant business opportunities, cultural experiences, all of which we are trying to achieve by implementing this policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U133	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for your presentation and your answer to questions. Now I would like to ask my colleague, Kalev Lillo, from the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U134	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I must begin by thanking you for this excellent review of maritime policy. As a representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I would not focus so much on the various chapters of maritime policy, but on what kind of discussions we had in the Commission. To begin with, as we understand it, all maritime communities are eagerly looking forward to this policy. For the first time, a document has been drawn up that takes account of the interplay between the various fields related to the sea, involving all relevant ministries in a comprehensive vision: Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Education and Research, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of the Environment and also Ministry of Culture. The aim of the development plan is to develop guidelines on maritime sectors in conjunction with them for the promotion of maritime affairs in order to realise the maximum potential of Estonia for the use and preservation of marine resources. Obviously none of us doubt that Estonia is a maritime state, even for the reason that we have somewhat more sea borders than the land borders, and the sea has long been the table giver of both bread and fish to our forefathers. I guess we've even highlighted such a seafaring, quoting Hemingway that there is an Estonian in every port in the world. More broadly, the sea is also a large employer today; it is estimated that it employs more than 21000 people in Estonia. We note that the National Development Plan 'Estonian Maritime Policy' is an extremely positive event. Toomas Haidak, Head of the Transport Development and Investment Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which led the work plan, deserves praise and recognition for this, because let us be honest, finding a common vision with such large interest groups is not an easy job. It is extremely welcome that this action plan arrives for discussion in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The action plan has been drawn up for years and we have a compromise after long debates and discussions. As we know, the compromise is a form of agreement in which no one is, at the same time, particularly satisfied. But the mark has been laid down, the foundation has been laid, and it is only possible to proceed on this basis. The title of the action plan entitled 'Estonian Maritime Policy 2011 to 2020' on today's agenda also refers to the painful birth of the document. We will be discussing a document in 2012, which was initially intended to be introduced as early as last year. In this context, the statistical data initially used as a basis for maritime planning has become obsolete on several occasions. As part of the discussion of Estonian maritime policy, the Economic Commission met with the Maritime Advisory Board at the end of last year. Two discussions have taken place at the Commission meeting, most recently on 23 February, where the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, gave a proper and thorough overview of the policy. Previously, the group had planned meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of the Environment and the Maritime Administration. I know that the Committee on the Environment also discussed this development plan last year. They also have a proposal, but this can be discussed later by the Commission's own representative. The Economic Commission considers that the National Development Plan "Estonia's Maritime Policy 2011 to 2020" can only be improved. I would like to give an overview here of the issues that attracted the attention of the Commission and of some of the views that developed. First of all, the modernisation that I stopped at once. Of course, we are proposing to change the deadline for the validity of the action plan (2012 to 2020), as well as to update the statistical data in such a way that they do not end up in 2009 because it is clearly now possible to introduce more recent data, i.e. statistical data for 2011. As the implementation of the Action Plan has been delayed, please consider extending the first implementation period by two years, i.e. the first implementation period would be in 2012/2016. We also noted that the level of detail of the development plan was not uniform throughout the document. On the one hand, the draft maritime policy contains very general activities. For example, deciding on the need to acquire an ice-class weather-proof boat inspection boat or on the need to acquire a multipurpose buoy vessel suitable for offshore conditions, which is a relatively decision-making decision. On the other hand, there are once again very specific proposals. For example, in the Ship Flag Law and Ship Registers Act, the requirements of § 57 to delete a ship from the Ship Register due to official duties. The same line can be followed by examples of a particular shipping line, the opening of the Eagle shipping line, or the reconstruction of a particular port, the Wolfhead port. The question arises as to whether these are the only things that deserve to be mentioned in concrete terms, or whether the overall approach could be maintained throughout the action plan. These were issues of a somewhat technical nature that we discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. On a more substantive point, there was an important section of the shipping subsidies, which the Minister also talked about in a relatively thorough manner and answered the questions. However, one thing we would like to add to the proposals is the most burning problem of recent times, which we do not think has been given enough attention. As regards the implementation of fuel sulphur reduction requirements in 2015, Estonian ships will have to undertake relatively money-intensive activities. We believe that this issue also needs to be addressed in maritime policy. The question also arises as to whether, in a situation where Finland supports the conversion of ships flying its flag, we can aim to bring 50 ships under the flag of Estonia by 2030 if we do not. Icebreaking capacity is a major and important issue. Next year the Estonian veteran icebreaker Tarmo will be 50 years old. The people involved are not hiding that this is a museum at best. I don't really want to say my opinion on this, but I don't want to call it a scrap. All fault repair is time-consuming manual work. Absolutely everyone believes that it is necessary to ensure the year-round navigability of Estonian waters, and for that we need the ability to break the ice. Maritime policy has a number of seven lines dedicated to this crucial issue, and the main activity is to renew the icebreaking development plan. However, we would have expected, at least, an explicit plan to ensure that the ice-breaking capacity is achieved, not to mention the description of these roads on how to achieve this. An important set of topics is the planning of port areas, once again the issue that has already been examined in this hall today. This is probably not only a matter of maritime policy, but may also concern other developments relating to important public infrastructure facilities. I will give you one concrete example that we encountered when the Economic Commission visited the Port of Tallinn of AS. One large international company wanted to build a modern oil terminal area where there is a valid planning. However, they wanted to make small changes there, on the one hand, to increase the capacity of the tank park, on the other hand, to introduce newer technologies, to rearrange the loading platforms in a way that would take them beyond the population, and to build noise barrier walls between them. They submitted an application for modification of the detailed plan to the municipality concerned. It is sad, however, that the lack of interest on the part of the municipality simply stops. Even if the court proposes to the local government council that it may take this matter into the proceedings, the court cannot directly force the council to do so. This may mean that money will not be brought here and jobs will not be created. I don't know, in the long run, the same fate can expect Rail Baltic. In the context of this debate, two ideas were put forward that could be considered. One was to increase the interest of local governments in companies located in their territory. There may also be some kind of review of the tax system. Another idea is to amend the planning code in such a way as to prevent such situations. An important issue in our committee was maritime education, on which a number of questions have been raised here today. In order to gain greater clarity in marine education, a better response to the media statement that the marine academy is to be joined by the Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, the Economic Commission sent a letter to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aakkool. We asked how the alleged plan to join the two schools fits into the pending maritime policy document of the Riigikogu. The answer came surprisingly quickly, within two working days, for which we are, of course, grateful. The reply stated that in 2014 the Estonian Maritime Academy will be subject to institutional accreditation, with the Ministry having expressed doubts as to its positive progress. Failure would mean closing the academy. In view of the development plan 'Estonian Maritime Policy 2011 has started to look for solutions in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and higher education institutions. The Ministry of Education and Research has asked the Estonian Maritime Academy to consider concrete ways to cooperate with both Tallinn University of Applied Sciences and Tallinn University of Technology to find an optimal solution to cover the needs of Estonian maritime specialists. To sum up, nothing is closed, nothing is added, but solutions are sought, as the Minister said earlier. Now from the small port network. In the summer, nearly 200,000 yachts are sailing in the Baltic Sea. The total amount of overnight stays and the amount of money left behind by international visitors travelling by yacht are measurable in millions of euros. Of course, Estonia would also like to have its share here. It has been pointed out that the optimal distance between ports in the port network could be up to 30 nautical miles. There are currently only 24 ports in Estonia that meet the requirements of guest harbours. The Commission was interested in who and how the remaining small ports would be selected, the investments of which, irrespective of their ownership, would be financed. We learned that ports are being mapped with partners: port owners, local authorities, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, rural governments, as the Minister mentioned earlier. If a financing measure is drawn up on the basis of a potential list, it will certainly require the approval of the Government of the Republic. It can also be added that the fisheries action groups have today selected 63 ports to be developed in their strategy. Maritime policy also states that it is probably reasonable to develop ports of fishing and recreational tourism as a single whole. The Maritime Policy also foresees that the network of small ports will be ready by 2018. One question in the Committee on Economic Affairs was the debate on the 'Restor pays' system. It is claimed that the system as such does not exist at present, but a debate is needed on how to ensure the capacity and financing of the elimination of marine pollution in the event of a potential pollution risk. On the other hand, we must ensure that the tariff rates charged from ships are competitive, in terms of the transit chain throughout Estonia. Within the framework of the Action Plan, the government will be able to work on the subject properly and then reach a decision. One of the most important issues we had in the Commission was the subject of the Committee on the Sea. On the one hand, it is clear that if we are to develop an action plan, someone should follow this action plan, follow the finger, essentially act actively every day in its implementation. It can be said from history that in 2005 a Commission was set up with the Ministry of the Environment to coordinate the resolution of maritime, marine and pollution response issues. In the same year, a working group was set up with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to coordinate maritime and maritime defence issues. Here too, maritime policy recognises that neither the Commission nor the working group has worked effectively enough. In order to ensure that the action plan we are discussing today is not just paper-only, but also implemented and monitored, the Commission had the idea that the implementation of maritime policy could be coordinated by a supraministerial government committee, led, for example, by the Minister for the Environment or the Economy. The last thing I want to mention is a forecast of the cost of the development plan, which was also a few questions from the floor. The cost of the action plan is set at EUR 534 million. The prognosis is presented as a table of priorities and measures. The Commission raised the question whether the financial table was not very incomplete. If you look at it, some rows are filled with numbers, but a lot of cells are empty. We have received the answer to this question that the financial table is indicative, contains opportunities for European Union co-financing and, above all, reflects investments that are not part of the everyday activities of companies. The biggest investment object is to support the development of port infrastructure with EUR 300 million and the second largest cost item is the construction of an icebreaker of EUR 100 million in this forecast. At its meeting on 23 February, the Commission decided unanimously to refer the Government of the Republic's Action Plan 'Estonian Maritime Policy 2011 to the plenary session of the Riigikogu'. a by 6 March, i.e. today. I would like to emphasise the word 'for discussion' so that this debate in this Chamber really does come up. I call on all my fellow Members to participate in the debate and to provide additional input to make the maritime policy proposed by the government even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U135	Thank you very much, Mr Lillo, for a thorough report on what took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Let's start with the questions. I would like to ask my colleague Heljo Pikhof first!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U136	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress, thank you for your thorough review. Unfortunately, I was not at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and I do not quite know everything you had there. You defined the word 'compromise' very nicely. My question is, what were the issues in which you reached a compromise? To whom were concessions made, and what questions? Give an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U137	Thank you for your question. In the case of compromise, I had in mind not the compromises made in the Commission, but certain concessions made during the drafting of the entire document. I cannot give concrete examples, but I can see by what I have encountered in meetings with various interest groups. The pressure is, for example, that tax incentives should not only be limited to social tax compensation, but also include income tax incentives, perhaps shipping subsidies for the construction of ships, etc. However, no such thing has been specifically included in the plan, but everything can still be discussed. The social tax reimbursement system is currently operating through EAS.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U138	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U139	Thank you. My question concerns container terminals and container trade in the long term. As is well known, public ports have also made, and are still making, very large investments in this area. Although we are currently able to handle approximately 150000 TEUs, in a few years' time this volume could be nearly five times larger. My question concerns its connection with transport policy and the construction of roads. Our trade with Russia is limited in volume; our roads are also relatively narrow. If container transport increases significantly, how do they move out of Estonia or through Estonia? Has this issue been discussed at meetings with ministries or interest groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U140	Thank you for your question. First of all, to clarify so much that for last year, I can mention the volume of container terminals at the Port of Tallinn, and this was not 150,000 TEUs, but 187000 TEUs. And we can't say that in the coming years it's going to grow, I don't know, five times or something, but it's going to have a double increase in volume. We did not have any discussions on this in the Commission, but I know so much that all the newer solutions relating to container terminals, however, assume that most of the containers will move by rail. If, on the one hand, it is said that there are no volumes and Russian imports are limited, then it can be seen that it is still possible to transport outside Estonia, plus the sea-sea transport, where the container is brought by sea to the Estonian terminal and leaves by sea, so that our road resource does not have to be consumed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U141	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In your presentation, you gave quite a few concrete examples of some of the shortcomings of Estonian maritime policy, at times there may be too much general wording, in another place a few things have been pointed out too specifically, etc. What was the Commission's position or proposal to the Ministry? I understand that in this Chamber we are only discussing, we do not make any amendments in the Riigikogu, as is always the case with development plans. Will the Ministry, as recommended by these Commissions, complete the development plan or will it remain the way it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U143	Thank you for your question. We had this discussion in the Commission. Take, for example, the modernisation of the bill. Of course, the Ministry understands that time has flowed into the sea and that this matter should be modernised. A promise to do so they gave. As far as other observations are concerned, there is also such an agreement with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that we will be writing a letter in the Commission where we will bring out certain questions and then the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will be able to respond to them. So, in its current form, this document is clearly in the way of time and would not be up to date. Of course, this goes to some extent to supplement, so we are allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U144	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! On several points, you said the phrase that entrepreneurship will not be created, jobs will not be created, money will not be brought to Estonia, etc. My question concerns passenger shipping, the shipping route between St Petersburg, Helsinki, Stockholm and Tallinn. The border crossing requirements are reported to have been tightened. If there were four more passport checks last year, this year visitors will be subjected to passport checks eight times and the Port of Tallinn claims that it will take four and a half hours to overcheck a passenger ship with 2,000 people. Last year, we had a great influx of people. This regular line came in 114000. Has this been discussed, and do you consider it normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U146	Thank you. We also discussed this issue when discussing maritime policy. The Port of Tallinn pointed out this bottleneck and, as we know, the initiative to carry out customs checks both on entry and exit at every border inspection post where the ship that starts its cruise from Russia makes a stop has come as if from Finnish customs. According to the Port of Tallinn, the Estonian Ministry of the Interior has also addressed this question. There has been trade for a certain grace period, if my memory does not deceive me, then start on 1 May instead of 1 March, but, of course, this is not the solution if we want to maintain this shipping line. Imagine when you go on a trip, you board a ship in St Petersburg to visit Scandinavia in the wide world, and then every morning, in Helsinki, Stockholm or Tallinn, you will be waiting for at least two to three hours in order to get off the ship, and it will take 2 to three hours to get back to the ship, plus multiple Schengen visas. Such a shipping line would obviously be doomed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U147	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U148	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! Some opponents have argued that the development plan was not preceded by studies. Did the Commission's discussion draw attention to the fact that the e-governance that holds the seafarers' register in Estonia is based on the understanding that we do not really know how many sailors we have? It runs through the text that 1350 sailors are on foreign ships through construction companies and another 3000-5000 have been found on their own. Was that what we were talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U149	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U150	This was very briefly mentioned in the working group, not in the Commission itself. Unfortunately, I can't remember what happened in the context and where it came from. But the story that not all registers are really perfect was true.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U151	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! We are also in the process of developing a legislative environment for voluntary maritime rescues in the Riigikogu. The topic of voluntary maritime rescue is not addressed in Estonian maritime policy. Should we do that? Did the Commission discuss this, and what is your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U152	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Lillo. Let's start the negotiations. I'll call my colleague Tõnis Lukas on the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U153	Thank you for your question. At this point, I reject your argument. Maritime policy addresses this issue and is specifically outlined in the main activities and output indicators. I can't find where at the moment, but I assure you it's been handled.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U154	Mr President, three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U155	Thank you, Mr Lukas. Please, Mr Tõniste! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U156	Dear Riigikogu! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I stress over the development plan's pretty fundamental and fundamental view that, together with the economic environment and economic activity, the topics of living, regional development and environmental conservation must also be addressed. In his presentation, Minister Parts emphasised environmental issues as an important part of the development plan, and for that the government must be commended that environmental issues have indeed been dealt with and the emphasis is perfectly understandable, correct. However, it appears from this development plan that as a leading ministry, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has focused primarily on those areas of its administration. The areas of other ministries may have been mentioned as topics, but we do not think that the necessary detail has been worked out. At its meeting on 27 September, the Committee on the Environment discussed the Maritime Policy Development Plan in good cooperation with the Estonian Fund for Nature, which proposed to hold such a discussion and who has sent their argumentated opinions at this stage of the development plan. I hope that the government will be able to discuss these opinions in the future in its work. On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I would stress a few nuances. Thanks to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for running the big job. Since the beginning of the 20th century, the Baltic Sea has become a eutropic marine environment from a fragile sea with clear water, and this is also the result of the proposals made by the Committee on the Environment for further action by the government. The introduction of the Baltic Sea bottom has been intensifying. These maps, which will be programmed up to 2030, provide for an economic environment so dense that the seabed, the sea as a whole, can be compared to land in terms of the density of its deployment. The Riigikogu dealt with environmental risks related to the construction of Nord Stream as a very important issue. Now that Nord Stream has started, we have reason to look back at whether the warnings that scientists gave have proved to be correct, as the Estonian state, its Riigikogu and the government may also face such issues in the future. Our committee intends to invite the academic Finnish to give an overview of how the installation of the new wire has affected the marine environment. Of the specific issues highlighted by the Committee on the Environment at its meeting on 27 September, which the letter sent to the government asked to address emphatically, I would highlight two. First of all, sea-area planning. Maritime planning is a complex process, and there is no proper methodology to match our environment, our coastal density, our archipelago status, at all. However, the objective of the development plan to take our planning capacity only to the point that we can make these plans by 2020 has clearly been pushed too far. By then, applications by businesses and our own energy security have probably required the introduction of maritime areas as, for example, wind farms. The Committee on the Environment would not want this to happen very sporadicly. We would like the plan to be in place first, not so that each application will be assessed relatively systemically separately. That is why we are proposing to start planning marine areas, even with pilot programmes. As the issue is very complex, it also shows that the thematic plans which the county governments have initiated in cooperation with the four counties so far and which concern the land areas of these regions, the four counties of West Estonia, are not moving very easily either. A few days ago, the council of Käina, for example, gave its negative opinion and, in particular, complained that there were not enough studies to justify it. But it's only about land. It can be said that people on land have plots and that tensions are serious, but maritime planning may be even more complicated. So I call on the government to go through the issue of maritime planning more quickly so that we anticipate the possible creation of wind farms in the sea rather than lurking in the process. Another issue that the government would ask for more attention to be given to in its day-to-day work is the country's oil pollution response capabilities. Its importance has been stressed in the development plan, but possible funding, increasing its on-call capacity to such a level that we do not need to call on our neighbours as the only way to control the average pollution, but we can respond ourselves. It is necessary to rethink the issues that the government has dealt with so far, which the financing of the oil fund or the so-called oil fund, possibly following the example of Finland, means financially what it means organisationally. We call for these issues to be addressed. Thank you for your good preparatory work. Government action and our Committee on the Environment will certainly continue in this area. If the government has now decided that the Maritime Development Plan will not be produced as a document for actual admission to the Riigikogu, then a commission or ministerial cooperation should be set up at the level of the government to ensure that environmental issues are further addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U157	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U158	Thank you very much, Mr Tõniste. I would like to ask my colleague Kalev Kallo of the speaker's desk. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U159	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to be here, because we have finally reached the point as a country that we are talking about Estonia's maritime policy. As a sea state, it is a disgrace that we are only doing this now that we have been independent for 20 years. This does not mean, of course, that Estonia has not been a maritime state for the last 20 years. We can be proud to talk about Tallink and our passenger shipping. We also have good ports in Tallinn, Muuga, Sillamäe and Paldiski. We also have the Baltic Ship Repair Plant, Saaremaa small shipbuilders and even world-class sailors. All of this exists, but not because of our country's maritime policy, but despite its absence. By being closely connected to the sea myself, I dare say that teamwork and a good plan are extremely important at sea. I am therefore pleased that we have finally come to the conclusion that we, as a country, are putting together a comprehensive picture and mapping our needs and our approach to maritime issues. At present, maritime transport is fragmented between different ministries and agencies. In order to improve cooperation and create synergies, we need a better overall picture and plan, so we avoid overlapping activities and 'white spots'. Our port and logistics business is now the most cost-effective and value-added business. With the creation of a logistics cluster, there has been good potential for finding new opportunities for Estonia in both the east and west markets. It is important to be part of the transport corridor and our signals here can be efficiency, security and quality of service. It is clear that the state does not have enough money for everything, but the more we need to think about where we invest. I believe that the construction of new icebreakers must be supported, because as an independent country we cannot be dependent on whether our neighbours remain free or not. For years, we have been talking about bringing ships under the Estonian flag. There is no need to invent a bicycle to drive the sea. When we look at our next-door maritime neighbours, we simply need to create a level playing field for our seafarers and seafarers and launch the necessary support schemes. There is no need to fear the cost if it brings much greater benefits. I also consider it important to organise and build our small ports network. Ports are needed both for us and for guests who visit the sea. Ports are exactly the same part of our infrastructure as roads, railways and airports. Ports are our sea gates. If we want to move safely and welcome our guests well, we want to be visited in Estonia at all, then we will fix our gates. There is no point in getting local authorities and private companies to fight against each other over the EAS grant money. There is no point in making fishermen and sailors argue with each other for those who receive more favourable support in order to build ports exclusively for their own vessels. We will put our shoulders and heads together and make a coherent network of small ports, also using European support funds. The well - planned and built port can be accommodated by sailors, motorboaters, and fishermen. I am pleased that the ice has begun to move in this area and that 25 members have already joined the Small Port Development Centre, including our biggest yacht clubs and the best small ports. We map our ports, create a classification for them, thus setting standards for port services as well as support schemes for the further development of ports. I see great potential in our recreational craft. The small ship cluster created in Saaremaa has been successful and I believe that there is a future competence centre there. The construction of recreational craft is precisely what we need to create products with a skilled workforce with a high added value and a good reputation. Estonian small ship builders are growing into Finnish and Swedish sub-workers, whose brands could have the potential to become Estonian business card in the world. It would be especially pleasant if we could train not only good builders but also good shipbuilders. Of course, the level of marine education in Estonia must be continued. It seems to me that the marine academy should not be separated or rushed into another educational establishment. Rather, the curricula should be critically reviewed and adapted to our future needs. To sum it up. Just as the song tells us that the sea is, the sea remains, the sea must be, we in the Riigikogu must stand up for Estonia not being a seaside state, but being a maritime state, whether we are a country rat or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U160	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Today is indeed a historic moment, because Estonia's maritime policy is under discussion for the first time in this hall. The sea is a third of our country's territory, and leaving this part of the bait is astonishing to our ancestors, neighbours and most of us. To date, nothing has been heard in our government about the European Union's promised shipping concession, which countries are doing for three purposes: to maintain jobs so that their fleet does not disappear in order to better protect the environment. Estonian maritime statistics are divided between different fields and therefore no one has a precise idea of the role of maritime affairs in the Estonian economy, the state's income, employment, especially exports, where shipping plays a solid role. All maritime countries, including our neighbours Finland, Sweden, Latvia, Lithuania, have taken this for granted and have taken appropriate measures using the national concessions authorised by the European Union. We are talking about ships in international traffic that fly the flag of Estonia. Unfortunately, there are only a few left. At the same time, there are estimated to be up to 80 ships in the area of influence of Estonian shipowners who pay their taxes to other countries. This fact shows that the Estonian flag, or, more specifically, the ship register, is not competitive in international shipping. So, what's this about? The problems begin primarily with taxation. In shipping developing countries, tonnage tax is used, i.e. according to the size of the vessel, the vessel owner pays the flag State a fixed amount per year. Among others, it is used by Latvia and Lithuania, for example. Estonian shipowners pay these amounts abroad, to their flag states. Some countries, such as Norway, have introduced lower income tax on their flag. In many maritime countries, including Latvia and Lithuania, seafarers pay income tax on twice the minimum wage. As a sailor is on board a ship for at least eight months when he is responsible for and bears all the social costs of the ship owner, for example, in Finland and Sweden, the social tax is 100% refunded to the ship owner. Several legislative problems are also an obstacle. It is almost impossible to recruit foreigners under the Estonian flag. They do not want to understand that this is not immigration. The bureaucracy of the Estonian authorities is also a source of concern for ship owners. The registration of a ship under the Estonian flag often takes longer than in many other countries. There are a number of small requirements for which there is no need. The ship owner must be sure that the flag is not the object of discrimination. This requires normal political relations with the country's surroundings. Examples can be found in Turkey, Cyprus, Jews and Arabs and other regions. In the Baltic Sea, we could also talk about Estonian-Russian relations. In the development of shipping, it is important to have stability that what is allowed can also be done to ensure that tax incentives remain in place so that investments are not lost as a result of some legislative changes. I would note that the development plan for Estonian maritime policy for the years 2011 to 2020 is only the most general framework with major fundamental changes in the maritime sector. But what is not mentioned in this document is one of the issues relating to the protection of the marine environment. By decision of the International Maritime Organisation, the English Channel, the North Sea and the Baltic Sea have been declared by a specific directive to be an area of sulphur savers where only 0,1% of sulphur oxides are allowed in exhaust gases from 1 January 2015. In 2016, there will be additional nitrogen limits. It is currently estimated that bringing the vessel into compliance with these requirements will cost a third of the ship's price. Thus, the first victims are shipowners and then consumers, as ocean freight prices increase by around 50%. There will be unequal competition with shipping companies in other regions. This is what all sea states in the region are worried about. Studies are being carried out and negotiations are being carried out on how to reduce costs. Several countries have promised to participate in the recovery of the costs incurred. We have not had much talk about these issues so far, even though it is less than three years before the clock falls. In recent times, the sustainability of our marine education has raised many questions. I could talk a lot about the glorious past of Estonian marine education, but let us briefly recall only the last period. After regaining independence, a Marine Education Centre was established, which later became a marine academy. The international recognition of our diplomas was soon reached. Let us add that graduates of the Academy are not only needed by shipping companies, but also by state companies and agencies. These men and women represent the Estonian culture of work and behaviour in the rest of the world, there is no other profession as international. Now, suddenly, there is a lack of resources for continuing a well-established and highly recognised maritime education. Let us remember that the development of each area depends on competent people. How can we talk about the Estonian maritime economy if there are no specialists in this area? But that's just the economic side. Cutting out a part of Estonia's cultural image is at least as great a disaster as it affects us all. These things can't be decided under a foil cap or by eating seeds. In conclusion, 'Estonia's Maritime Policy 2011‐2020' is far from perfect, but there are no ideal programmes. Programmes must be flexible and constantly supplemented in accordance with time requirements. It is now up to the operational programmes. I haven't heard much about them so far, even though it's been a year and a half since the start of the launch. So the strength to work in order for Estonia to become a maritime state from a seaside state, as the previous speaker also underlined, that is, in geographical terms, the maritime state also becomes a maritime state in economic terms! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U161	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. Mr Kalev Eagle, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me congratulate the authors of the SDE Group on their behalf for the maritime policy 2011‐2020. I would also like to remember with a good word the composition of our colleague, Riigikogu XI, Tarmo Kõutsi, whose systematic inhalation has resulted in the Estonian state having the first official vision of developing our maritime affairs in 21 years of independence. It would be inappropriate to ask if we're too late with this development plan. Of course we are, but hopelessly, that's what the near future will show. The Estonian state currently has 64 national development plans, programmes and strategies in force, 19 of which have been approved by the Riigikogu and 45 by the government. Whether the Maritime Development Plan will actually be a regulatory document depends on whether it will have a link with the annual state budget. If this connection isn't there, this development plan will travel there as 65 to the 100 strategy cemetery. The first signs are rather pessimism, because the EUR 55 million in the state budget for 2011 and the EUR 60 million for 2012 are only partly reflected, i.e. we are starting a sacred event with a certain backwardness. The Social Democrats agree, in principle, with everything that has gotten between the covers of the development plan. However, we would be happy to see that it would include an additional chapter on fishing as an important component of the Estonian maritime economy, as well as the concept of Estonian icebreaking as an important prerequisite for year-round maritime transit. Some topics could be dealt with more concretely, rather than simply being branded. One such issue is the lack of competitiveness of our ship's register. Many European countries have gone on the path of tax relief or tax compensation to keep their ships in the register. It is clear from the day that the interest of Estonian ships in the domestic ship register depends on the fees charged for the operations of the ship register, the state taxes on the register, i.e. corporate tax and labour taxes and the simplicity of the register operations. As long as these things are more favourable in other countries' registers, our ships will figure it out. If these figures equalize, Estonian ships will come to our register for patriotism or nostalgil-emotional reasons. If our figures become better than others, ships will also come into our register for economic reasons. It's as simple as that! The Social Democrats would be happy to see more attention paid to Estonian seafarers in the National Development Plan 'Estonian Maritime Policy 2011 A sailor resident in Estonia is less competitive with EU shipowners, employers than with seafarers from other Member States and third countries. The reason is that the Republic of Estonia has not implemented a system of taxation of natural persons equivalent to that of other countries for seafarers, nor has it concluded possible transnational agreements under Regulation 1408 of the European Union. In essence, we have created a situation where, in many cases, it is nearly one third more expensive to hire a seaman resident in Estonia than his colleague from another Member State of the European Union. As a result of the inaction so far, many seafarers from Estonia do not have a credible opportunity to participate in the national treatment, pension and social security system. We are also disturbed by the fact that e-state Estonia, which has a seafarers' register, is based on the understanding that we do not really know how many sailors we have in the development plan. The Social Democrats welcome the completion of the National Development Plan 'Estonia's Maritime Policy 2011 We also consider it necessary to update this document every few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-06_U163	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations, and at the right time, our hearing will also be closed. Thank you to everyone who participated! Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
