ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 46 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and 55 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler and Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U2	Let's start with the first question. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! On 2 March, the Member States of the European Union signed the so-called fiscal agreement. Since members of the Riigikogu are literate people, they could read about it in the papers. I think the European Union Affairs Committee has also been discussing the matter, but there has been no mention of it in the Chamber. The aim, as we understand it, is for national budgets to be balanced. But there are very different indicators here. The agreement talks about a one-off deficit corrected for one-off effects and adjusted for the economic cycle. I'm sorry, I have to read it on paper! We've been talking about some kind of 5% here the whole time, but the contract says it can't be more than 0.5%. Please explain to us how the Estonian budget deficit fits within these limits.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U4	Thank you. Very fit. I'm sorry you haven't followed the press. There is a great deal of writing about the fiscal treaty in the press. We're not talking 5%, we're talking 3%. We still have reason to talk about the 3% deficit, because the European Stability and Growth Pact states that the budget deficit must not exceed the same 3% of GDP. If we are now talking about a deficit of 0.5% of the fiscal agreement, we are talking about a structural deficit. The structural deficit differs from the nominal deficit in that the effects of the cycle have been eliminated and the effects of single factors have been similarly eliminated. In principle, there may be a situation where the nominal deficit of 3% is described by the same economic situation as the structural deficit of 0.5%. The nominal deficit is fast-tracked, but the structural deficit is that basically it is only possible to say afterwards whether it was or not. The determination of structural deficit is time-consuming.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U5	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U6	Thank you, Prime Minister, for this excellent explanation. You signed it, you know better. We haven't discussed it here. However, automatic sanctions have also been discussed in the case of a fiscal agreement. What kind of sanctions could there be in the event of a breach of the treaty, and are we not taking major risks here again, like the Greek aid package? We will certainly benefit from this agreement, but there are risks. Does this benefit always outweigh the risks involved? How likely is it that we may be subject to sanctions? After all, there are situations in which it is reasonable to allow more or less budget deficits. This is, however, an internal matter on which we should decide, not so much the European Union. What are these sanctions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U7	Thank you. It certainly does not make sense to put the budget in excess of certain limits. No matter how severe the sanctions are, the damage is small compared to the severity of the consequences of an excessive deficit. However, these automatic sanctions are certainly necessary to ensure that all countries comply with the rules already agreed upon. We have a Stability and Growth Pact with a beautiful objective that deficits must not exceed 3% of GDP and public debt must not exceed 60% of GDP. However, there have been no sanctions to ensure compliance with these requirements. Yes, there has been an excessive budget deficit procedure, but during the financial crisis that began with the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, there have been only two countries in the European Union that have not been the subject of this excessive deficit procedure. These countries are Estonia and Sweden. We have the euro in common. The last three years have proved to us that this common currency must also be supported by the budgetary policies of the Member States. It cannot be the case that some countries are taking on a modest loan without being able to pay back the loan, thus creating major problems for other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U8	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U9	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! We have common money, we have a common continent, a Europe in which one nation lives, Europeans. Is it true now that the European Union is excluding Estonia from the decision-making process of the parliament and telling us what our budget must look like? This is what we are told today, tomorrow maybe we will be told what our defence costs must be, but the day after tomorrow, the European Union will tell us which flag is to fly over Estonia. Parliament is still out of the decision-making process. Should we, ladies and gentlemen, every morning when we come to work see which flag is flying in the Tall Hermann Tower?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U10	Your parallels with the flag are completely inappropriate. Yeah, it may be true that you've been out of decision-making all along, but that's your personal problem. In the context of Europe, the Estonian Parliament has always been in the decision-making process and has made decisions based on common sense. All the financial policy decisions taken fall within the framework of the Fiscal Treaty. The Fiscal Agreement will not restrict our freedom of action in any way if we intend to continue with healthy decisions. However, these frameworks would threaten those people who want to lead our country to destruction by taking unreasonable loans. In that case, these borders, which are also provided for by the Fiscal Treaty, would certainly be harassing. But I hope that there are no people in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia who should be tamed by these rules. Over the last twenty years, we have always managed to make sound fiscal policy decisions. We have been one of the two countries that have not been the subject of an excessive deficit procedure during the last crisis. I hope this will continue in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U11	Now, ladies and gentlemen, five questions can be asked on-the-spot. Let's start with my colleague, Heimar Leng.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U12	Thank you. Honourable speaker, Prime Minister. You have explained these problems well, and I think it is understandable, but since the MPs in this Chamber have many questions about this matter, it seems that more could have been brought to this hall earlier. In Europe, a lot of things are decided for us, you just sign. Perhaps we should start thinking about optimising the parliament in Estonia, about some kind of political reform, maybe we should start changing the role of parliament in Estonia? Maybe we shouldn't go together every week. People are already worried there's too many of us. If decision-making has gone to Europe, perhaps we should also reform something on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U13	Whether you are overburdened or underburdened, I will not appreciate it from this speaker, it will be up to you and your constituents to appreciate it. As has already been said in reply to the previous question, the Estonian state has always made decisions on the basis of common sense. I hope that this decision-making will continue in the future in the Riigikogu Chamber. I do not think that compliance with the rules of partnership, which in our case means unreasonable, can be said to be somehow unacceptable to us to restrict the decision-making of insane ones. It cannot be said that it violates the sovereignty of the state. In the first question, defence costs were mentioned. After all, we have agreed with our partners that all NATO Member States will invest 2% of GDP in national defence. For us, this has been a wise, reasonable level of spending. Based on this assumption that we are going to spend 2% of GDP on national defence, we decided to join NATO and our partners also accepted us there. I do not consider it possible to waive the condition of membership after we have been admitted to the club. The same applies to the European Union. We have agreed that we will comply with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. I don't think it's possible to get rid of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U14	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! The Fiscal Agreement has been signed and it is already known that certain countries will not be able to comply with the terms of this agreement. For example, what about Spain this year? Will the sanctions provided for in the agreement be fully implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U16	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U17	Thank you. There have been press speculations about Spain, but I can confirm what the Spanish Prime Minister has stated at the Council: Spain intends to comply with all the requirements of the Fiscal Treaty. I can also say that neither I nor my colleagues are prepared to grant exceptions to some countries immediately after the budget rules have been agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U18	Thank you. Prime Minister! The signing of the Fiscal Agreement is certainly a positive step, and the rules must be respected. But we know that one budget period for the European Union is coming to an end and the other is about to begin. I simply wondered whether the budget of the European Union as an institution was in balance and whether there was a risk that it would ever fall short. What is the budgetary logic of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U19	The European Union's own budgetary logic is a balanced budgetary logic. If the resources of any item of expenditure provided for in the budget are not spent, Member States will not simply pay up these amounts. It was once agreed in Berlin that the European Union budget could amount to 1.24% of total national income. This is the maximum rate, but in practice, no 1% has been reached in any year. There have been so many problems with the use of funds in the Member States that no agreed expenditure has been made in any year. So there will be no deficit in the budget of the European Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U20	The last issue registered on the ground, my colleague, Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I've been wondering for a while if I'm going to ask you this question and if I'm going to ask you for advice. You accused my colleague Vassilyev that he had not followed the issue of the fiscal pact in the newspapers or made it clear to himself through the media. In the case of ACTA, you argued, referring in particular to the Evening Page, that the newspapers should not be read, because they are lying anyway. I ask you for advice: which media channel should be monitored to find out the truth, whether Postman, Eesti Päevaleht, Õhtulehte or Midweek?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U22	For the last two, I am not a good counselor because I am not their regular reader, I rarely see an article in these publications. It would certainly be worth watching the two former ones, but it would be best if you were to follow the European Commission's website and draw information from it. Speaking of ACTA, I think that all people could have read the full text of the agreement as early as April 2010. Then there would have been no questions. Nor would there have been very foolish intimidations if those people who consider themselves to be huge IT gurus had worked a little hard and read the text of this treaty before the emotions began to erupt.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U23	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U24	The next question is from my colleague, Helmen Hunt, to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! Yesterday, the World Social Work Day was celebrated, but there are a lot of people who do this hard work twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week, but they are not social workers, but they care for their families. My question is about the problems of carers, usually mothers, of children with extreme care needs. At present, the situation is that if, either because of the health status of the carer or the child, it should be necessary to apply for public funding for the care of the institution because the family or the municipality is unable to pay for an expensive place of care, then the only option is to restrict or suspend custody of the carer through court. Do you think it would be reasonable to supplement the law so that care for children with extreme care needs is paid by the state and the decision on the necessity of the service is made by a competent team rather than by a court, as is currently the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U26	Thank you for your question. The subject is certainly extremely important. If you look at it in the light of yesterday's World Social Work Day, you have to say that there are a lot of concerns and a lot of ideas here. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, we are aware that what has been described in the public domain as the 'only straw' of its own carers has actually been sought out. I certainly do not approve of the possibility of going to court on the way to giving up my child in order to get him a place in a state institution. However, it is essential that those in need of help who care for and care for their children and adult family members every day receive the necessary support services. There is a serious debate about this in the Ministry of Social Affairs. During this year, we will try to look more closely at family care, whether and how we can proceed with family care. By the end of next year, a broader concept of substitution care should be completed. These are ministry activities, but I also believe that the questioner knows very well all the other options that the parent actually has in order to get additional support from the state to care for his or her child. These are also described in the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U27	Please, Mr Küttt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U28	Thank you. According to § 252 of the Social Welfare Act, a mother who has been deprived of the rights of a parent by a court decision or who has limited such rights should not, for example, work in a childcare institution, a kindergarten teacher, or in some other occupation, which means working with children. However, the need for such a judgment may be due to the state of health, which is why they went to court and applied for the waiver of parental rights. Doesn't it seem to you that § 25 could be amended so as not to punish once again those parents who have such education that they can work as a kindergarten teacher?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U29	Thanks for the thought. Once again, the fact that a parent should go to court to waive his or her parent's rights or parenting rights in order for his or her child to receive a state-funded substitute care service is not a very good way at all. Rather, it is important to look for and find ways to keep parents' rights and to be able to play a normal role in society and working life. This should be the right way. Parents have now used the possibility of going to court. However, the state must take into account that the law must be universal and can be applied in the same way to all parents. Otherwise, the law should introduce very narrow exceptions to the very narrow circle of persons. For example, if the mother of a child with a deep or severe disability has been deprived of parental rights, she could work as a babysitter. I would rather not introduce this narrow exception into the law, but I would still resolve it by ensuring that mothers and fathers who need help are provided with support, home care, home care, care or other facilities that exist. It is also known that replacement homes have been providing an "interval service" for some time to get parents out of the daily routine. But the provision of this service is often left behind either the lack of local governments or the lack of public money. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U30	Please, Mr Küttt, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U31	Thank you. Mr. Minister! My first question was precisely motivated by the fact that if this decision were not taken by the court but by the competent team, this restriction would not be necessary either. But my last question is this. It is very gratifying that the Ministry of Justice has begun to review the law on the cheque economy of guardians. But does the Ministry of Social Affairs plan to come to the Grand Hall of the Riigikogu with some bill this year? Perhaps, in the 2013 budget, we could also look at how to ease the situation of family carers. The guardians of the relatives are united, they have their own media publications and all 101 members of the Riigikogu receive the Touch Points magazine on their desk. Therefore, these problems are known. Do you have any good news today about what the Ministry is planning to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U32	Thank you. It is right that a large number of so-called legal aspects are regulated in the Family Law. In principle, we have agreed in the government that the Ministry of Justice will handle the family law. The family law provides not only for the cheque economy, but for matters that are more closely related to guardianship. We're working closely with the Justice Department here. In addition to the rapidly emerging problem of the cheque economy, which also awaits a rapid solution, it has been agreed that by 1 May the Ministry of Social Affairs will submit to the Ministry of Justice proposals on family law for other amendments, including the resolution of matters relating to guardianship. It is then to be hoped that the fruit of this cooperation will reach Parliament this year, amendments to the family law, or also issues of interpretation of the law, for example, not by amending the law, but through codes of conduct or explanations given to the courts, will reach the right addressee. If one more time comes to what you said, whether it is the right body of doctors or experts or the right court, then I certainly would not want to change the situation regarding parental rights. In other words, parental rights, which are inevitably linked to the fundamental rights of a person, can only be restricted by a court. If the court considers it necessary to seek the opinion of experts, it is perfectly normal and reasonable, but a formal legal decision can and must be taken only by the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U33	Now two issues registered on the spot. Let's start with colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U34	Thank you. Dear Minister, Yesterday, Tiina Kangro again wrote a rather distressing story on the same subject. He asked how to help people who have to care for a sick child, a parent, or a husband, whatever, to survive. Really, night-days for years in a row, even working for decades in a row, they themselves go out and just don't make it. Family law says that close relatives must do so or buy this service. But there is no money. A place in a nursing home costs, we know, 600 euros a month. What are you planning anyway? I understand the concept is coming up. But what about the people in trouble right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U35	Thanks for asking. After you have read Tiina Kangro's writings, you know that in the last article she mentioned the fundamental change made in the early 1990s when the concepts of caring for a disabled child changed and it was understood that she would not have to be placed in an institution in the woods for institutional care, but that the family could try to deal with her on its own. There are people in my family who have a child with a deep disability. These families have cared for these children their whole lives. That is a very difficult and emotional question. To be honest with you, there is a pretty strong spirit when you think about the burden and the responsibilities of the mother or father, the whole family, especially when one child has a normal intellect and has no problems, but the other child needs daily care. Once again, I think it is extremely important that not only the state but also the municipalities can help these people with their services. Two minutes simply cannot accommodate all the opportunities that the state currently offers either grants or services. Interval care has come up, and opportunities in the field of home care have expanded. We have increased the volume of home care services at the health insurance fund, increasing the volume of care care. These opportunities need to be combined in order to give these parents the opportunity to participate normally in social life and working life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U36	Please ask the last question registered on the spot, Mr Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U37	Thank you. Dear Minister, If you don't mind, I'm gonna expand the subject a little bit and ask for a place to care for children in the family without parental care. If children are left without parental care and cannot be adopted for one reason or another, they will be cared for either in orphanages with a newer name called replacement homes or in the family. A support system has been developed in replacement homes and this year the country was also able to increase the bounty. However, it is known that the child's normal living environment is in the family. What support systems or solutions are planned to be implemented to ensure that as many children without parental care as possible are cared for in the family?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U38	Thank you for your question. Really, when we talk about family care, we're going to make the original focus of the matter a little bit wider. As I said, by the end of this year, we will try to examine family care separately. We have already allocated money this year precisely for the training of families who take care of the child. This is a process that must definitely be continued. This is an inevitable prerequisite so that we can even talk about taking care of the family. Of course, I agree with you a hundred percent that in any case it would be better for a small child to grow up in a "natural" family environment rather than receive replacement care. In the case of substitution care, we are still talking about institutional care. Despite a steady decline in the number of children receiving substitution care, 1,100 children still receive institutional care, i.e. replacement home services. There's a lot of nuances. One thing is that the state is trying to ensure training and certain financial support. The other side is that the family must also be prepared to come to the understanding that they are ready to take care of the family of a child who has started his or her life or has been in a substitute home for a period of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U39	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U40	The next question is from my colleague Kajar Lember to the Minister for Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U41	Thank you, good manager. I have some philosophical questions today concerning the administration of the Minister of Regional Affairs. I'm going to go see them now. Probably thanks to the Estonian Youth Association, as well as the young Social Democrats, the Minister of Justice has launched a discussion in the public on the possible reduction of the deadline. The debate has largely taken place on the general reduction in the electoral age, but I ask the Minister for Regional Affairs what your opinion on the reduction in the electoral age is precisely in the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U42	I begin by saying that the initiative of the Ministry of Justice has started with the programme of the government union, not with the initiative of young people from other parties. That's the point in the government union agreement. On this basis, the Ministry of Justice has, in my opinion, carried out a very good analysis of the reduction in the election age, which I recommend everyone to read. The experience of other countries has also been discussed there. For example, Austria is a country in Europe where elections have reached 16 years of age. The analysis says that the result is rather positive, with no negative consequences. I think we could do that. The word for young people should sound louder, their position should be strengthened. But I would point out that although the analysis also says that reducing the age of choice does not in itself lead to changes in the rights or obligations of others, I think we should still think a little more broadly. I expect that if you could choose from younger ones, for example when you are 17, you would immediately ask why a 17-year-old person cannot belong to a party or be a member of a non-profit association without parental consent. We should look at this issue together with other rights of young people in society, but I think that greater involvement of young people is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U43	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U44	Thank you. Did I get it right that you would rather agree that bringing down the election age in municipal elections would give the younger people the opportunity to be involved in their home affairs and to make the rulers contribute even more to young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U45	Yes, I agree, it would be a good step in the local elections. I'm sure it's a longer-term issue. The ballot pig, as you know, is fixed in the Constitution. This is certainly not an urgent matter. It would take time to amend the Constitution. Obviously, that is why we cannot debate today in the context of the local elections that will take place next year. But as stated in the coalition agreement, it is important to bring the discussion to society. The fact that you are asking this today also shows that the subject has been taken up. I think that a wider debate on how to bring young people more into decision-making is necessary in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U46	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U47	Thank you. It's a pleasure to listen. I've considered the IRL to be very skeptical about this point in the coalition agreement. It's really a longer process. This is likely to be feasible over the years, perhaps for the next municipal elections. But what is the IRL's idea of concrete steps to bring young people into local life in the coming years, so that they can take more account of them and be more involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U48	At present, the Youth Work Act provides for the possibility to select a youth council on the territory of local governments. The Act states: "Vald or the City supports the sustainable operation of the youth council of its administrative territory in accordance with the procedures established by the Municipality or City Council. ' I certainly call on local councils to make greater use of this opportunity and young people to ask candidates before the local elections whether they intend to support the activities of the youth council in their field or in their city. This is the real opportunity that exists. But, as I said, we should also discuss whether, for example, a 17-year-old person could still belong to a non-profit organisation without asking the parent's consent. If you read our laws now, it turns out that for every decision a young person makes, for example, in a nonprofit organization, he needs a separate permission from his parent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U49	Now three issues registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Lauri Luige.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U50	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I have been involved in quite a number of debates myself on this subject. Recently, I have developed the opinion that young people could really rather be involved in local elections, but not in Riigikogu elections. However, there is one great danger that has hatched in these debates and what is still a big question: how can we avoid an election campaign going to schools? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U51	That's a wider question. Indeed, even discussions on politics in schools have often been very negative for the public. I pointed out that when we are talking about reducing the age of election, as a logical continuation, the question immediately arises of the age of the right to belong to a party. I think this should be discussed very openly. My party, the IRL youth, highlighted the problem of whether this type of question is adequately addressed at school, whether education gives young people exhaustive answers, so that they can orient themselves in the political landscape and make their choices. I'm sure there's a lot of work to do here. When asked about figures, I say so much that there are approximately 1.1 million local government voters, with 26700 people aged 16 to 17. So we are talking about 2.5% compared to the current voters in the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U52	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U53	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. With regard to electoral rights, one more question. In Sakala, an article has been published by the Counsellor of the Minister of Justice, which put forward the idea that a person could have the right to vote on the territory of several local governments and also have the right to realise it in several municipalities, according to how much real estate he owns somewhere. Has this idea been discussed by the government coalition, and what is your attitude towards this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U54	We have discussed this issue among members of the government. Indeed, this possibility is also indirectly reflected in our government agreement. We have not formulated a single position for today. My personal opinion is very cautious. I will not rule it out, but it will require a more thorough analysis of what all of this would mean. We already have, if we can vote in only one place, there have been unfortunate cases, there have been imports of voters, which is unfortunately what we can call it. If a person could vote in two places, as long as some of our municipalities have a very small population, it would be relatively easy to influence the results. If a person would have the opportunity to vote in two places, I think it would also be necessary to take into account in the analysis the aspect of how he will vote in that other place, on the basis of which he will base his motives on these decisions. It's not as simple a question as it may seem at first glance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U55	The last issue registered on the ground, my colleague, Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. One important argument, when it comes to reducing the age of selection, is that when people are 16 years old, they already have enough experience and a little bit of wisdom. Have you not considered such an option that, from a certain age, those who already have a great deal of wisdom and experience in life could be given two votes, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U57	As measured by wisdom, we have not considered the possibility of giving multiple votes. However, if you read the analysis of the Ministry of Justice, you will see that there is a German example of this, in the context of the substitution vote for children: if children are not entitled to vote, then an additional vote could be given to parents from each child. This has been reflected, in particular, in discussions in Germany. I think this is a serious aspect to consider. I believe that the voice of families, especially families with children, in society should also increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U58	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U59	Please ask my colleague, Mrs Tuus-Laul, the question to Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U60	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Yesterday, an amendment to the Employment Contracts Act was adopted in this hall with the votes of the Reform Party and the Fatherland, which a couple of members of the coalition had prepared. You might think the idea came from you. This reduced the amount of compensation promised from 2013, 40% of the salary, 40% for those who leave work at their own request or with the agreement of the parties. As we recall, the Employment Contracts Act is very one-sided. It has been made easy to get rid of the employee and social security has been reduced. This compensation was the only rosin, as the legislators also understood that an employer could influence or provoke a person to write a resignation. My question is this: why does the government not abide by the gentlemen's agreement and why are you cheating and breaking the promises you made?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U61	Thank you for your question. I don't know if you have more knowledge than I do, but I think yesterday was the first reading of the bill. If the law had been passed, the situation would be different. I believe that the government coalition as a whole will certainly understand and respect the agreement reached. I don't know if you have that deal, I have it, I have it with me. One point in this agreement (the points are not numbered here) talks about the restructuring of labour market institutions. Its last point states that as a result of the reorganisations, the total unemployment contribution to the employer and employee will not increase by more than 1,5% and the state will not provide additional public funding. This really was what was agreed and should be respected. The situation in the economy, unfortunately, did not allow the benefits that were in force in 2009 to be pushed into the framework of this agreement or 1.5%. The obligation to pay these benefits was already considerably higher at the time. This concerned, in particular, the redundancy compensation. It took more money than planned to pay these benefits, so we had to make the unemployment insurance contribution more than 1.5% in agreement with the social partners. It is important to remember this agreement that all benefits paid out of the unemployment fund should have reached 1,5%. Unfortunately, they don't fit in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U62	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U63	Thank you. It doesn't really matter how many readings it was, because if the coalition comes up with something, it'll be accepted. It hasn't been the case that it's been different. But the unemployment fund currently has so much unemployment insurance money (for me to know 350 million euros or more) that even if unemployment increased by 100%, this money would continue and be left over, the unemployment fund would still be in surplus. You, too, personally, have said that I can even read this quote out loud, that this compensation will certainly have to be introduced from 2013. You didn't say until a few years ago that then the economy has stabilised and you will definitely do it. Those are your words. The Prime Minister has also said that there may be such injustice, but we should not pay for it in money. I'm still asking you, why are you cheating on the legitimate expectations of working people right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U64	Thank you. Workers would have a legitimate expectation from 2013. You said something was being slashed somewhere. I won't. The current rights of employees are all retained. If we look at a slightly wider context, I believe that the person asking will also know that it is a relatively exceptional measure that concerns the payment of compensation on his own initiative or in agreement with the parties on leaving the job. There is no such practice in the vast majority of European countries. This is done, for example, in Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, in a total of seven countries, so in a relatively small number of countries. Speaking of what's been going on in history, I think the questioner knows that very well. At first reading, we discussed the debates that took place ten years ago. Your good party partner, defending the amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act in 2002, made it clear that there is no difference in essence between leaving on his own initiative and leaving with the agreement of the parties. Consequently, an amendment was introduced in 2002, in addition to the amendment already in force in 2001, and it was agreed that the deceased would not receive compensation at his own request. This was followed by a colorful quote from a house fire. These principles are certainly important and they are not lost anywhere. However, the majority of European countries follow the same principles: if you go away of your own accord, no compensation will be granted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U65	Please, Marika Tuus-lauul, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U66	Thank you. I ask you another question: why would you allow it if it was not done in most countries? Is it really to get trade unions to just sign a contract with fraud? But I didn't finish the question yet. I also wanted to open a new issue, because we still have a very high level of unemployment, Mr Minister. For example, let us look at last year's summary. There were some 79000 unemployed, and more came at the end of the year. It's a critical situation right now. We still have very little talk about it. Long-term unemployment has increased. Maybe you'll open up a little bit of what you've done? The situation is essentially as critical as it was at the time of unemployment when there were 116000 unemployed. Only slightly the number of unemployed has decreased. What have you foreseen for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U67	Thank you. I'll start at the beginning of your question. If you also look at the countries where this benefit applies, these countries have a long waiting period to receive it at all. You're talking about unemployment. However, it must be acknowledged that your claim that almost nothing has changed is not correct. Estonia is the country with the fastest reduction in unemployment in the European Union. It is true that unemployment increased very rapidly and very much during our crisis years. Remember, there were still over 130,000 unemployed. You mentioned 79000 unemployed. So this number has been significantly reduced. If you look at last year, you can see that unemployment has fallen significantly. Let us also look at the employment figures, which are even more important. If employment fell during the crisis to 520000 to 530000 workers, the figure is now well above 600000. Thanks to the euro, foreign investments and investments by Estonian entrepreneurs, jobs in Estonia have increased considerably and the people of Estonia have returned to work. This does not mean that we should be satisfied with the situation to the end. For this reason too, active labour market measures will be the largest ever in the year, with EUR 37 million. If we put it in Estonian kroons, we will see that it is almost 600 million Estonian kroons. We are spending this money wisely in order to provide active labour market measures for people. That's the actual situation. So if you look at this legislative amendment and the unemployment figures as a whole, I wouldn't dare use your expressions. The situation is improving, and summer will certainly bring relief.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U68	Let us now begin with the issues registered on the ground. Please, Mr Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U69	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I'll straighten out Marika Tuus-Laul's statistical expression first. There are 50,000 registered unemployed people around. The figures that Mrs. Tuus-Laul is operating in this hall are not correct. You don't have to make false statements. As far as this law is concerned, as you said yourself, this luxury of voluntary departure allows a handful of countries in the European Union. The draft initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs was also under discussion in the government. Perhaps you will once again explain to Parliament the reasons why the government supported this draft and also give us all examples of other countries for information?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U70	Thank you. The main argument was the agreements concluded in April 2008. I will look again at the signatories to the agreement. On the employers' side, there are two signatures here: Tarmo Kriis, representative of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, and Mait Palts, representative of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The representatives of the trade unions, or employees' representative organisations, have two signatures in the same way: as the representative of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, Harri Tali and TALO, or Ago Tuuling, as the representative of the Central Organisation of the Workers' Trade Unions. In the same way, two signatures were signed on behalf of the government: the then Minister of Social Affairs, Maret Maripuu, and the then Minister of Justice, Rein Lang. Thus, the government, employers and employees have discussed this issue in a tripartite way and have said that the expenditure paid out of the unemployment fund in the form of benefits does not exceed 1,5% of the total payment obligation for employees and employers. This is certainly the most important argument that must also be taken into account in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. I believe that it is also important for the opposition, but especially for the government union, to reduce the tax burden on people. The government union plans to reduce the tax burden from 1 January next year when unemployment insurance is reduced from 4.2% to 3.0%. These were the main arguments. But we're not going to make it to 1.5% with 3.0%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U71	Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Here today, examples from other European countries have been discussed. We can informally divide these countries into emotional and pragmatic old democracies. It has to be said that Finland and Sweden do not currently pay the allowance if they leave voluntarily, but Germany does. What's the difference? Is this really the principle that money is now and now, or do they have some sort of speciality in dealing with this aspect?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U73	Thank you. I once mentioned to your colleague, Mrs Tuus-Laul, that in Germany and in other countries where this system is being implemented, it is based on the assumption that if a person leaves the job of free will, there will be no immediate start to pay compensation. In particular, for Germany, this waiting period is 12 weeks, i.e. three months. It has its own logical background. But if I look at these countries again, these countries are Bulgaria, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania and Hungary, for example. There is no such compensation in the vast majority of highly successful countries in terms of the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U74	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U75	Thank you. Good minister! I think we can be sure that this law will enter into force in the first half of the year. The unemployment fund's insurance percentage is currently 4.2. It's part of that promise. I ask what prevents this percentage from being reduced to 3.0 from the second half of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U76	I'm sorry, I'm asking you to be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U77	If, for example, this law enters into force in the first half of the year, could it not, in parallel with the entry into force of this law, immediately reduce the unemployment insurance rate to 3.0%?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U78	Okay, I got it. Thank you. The type of compensation we are talking about is enshrined in the law from 1 January 2013. If you look at the text of the law, the text of the law makes it very clear that the payment can be reduced once within a period. This means 1 January once in a period. So, according to the law in force, it is clear that the unemployment insurance rate can fall from 1 January 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U79	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U80	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister and Remo Holsmer! Marika Tuus-Laul was actually talking about unemployment. There are 79000 unemployed in Estonia. There is one thing about registered unemployment, and another about those who are already discouraged is not in the unemployment fund but are not working. But here's my question. You read out those countries where the benefit applies on your own request or upon agreement between the parties. But why don't you read out the countries where people get more money from the unemployment fund, i.e. not only 50% of their previous salary, and for a much longer period than in Estonia? Labour laws vary widely from country to country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U81	Thank you for your question. I'm sure the labour laws are different. We all know that Denmark has a rather generous system. It must be taken into account that in Denmark, if I remember correctly, there are nine or even more insurance companies for different groups of insured persons. For example, academics with a monthly payment of more than DKK 1000, regardless of their monthly income, are separately insured. Similarly, in Denmark, the monthly contribution of the construction sector insurance is over DKK 400, regardless of what the builder's salary is. So the systems are very different, but many systems also receive significantly more money. It's true. So if you want to take action across Europe, look at the money people pay to get this kind of insurance cover. It should be taken into account that insurance cover is different. But I will quickly read out the countries where there is no compensation for voluntary departure: Belgium, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Greece, Spain, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Finland, Slovenia, Slovakia, Sweden and the United Kingdom. If you start talking about having more rights somewhere, look at how much employees are actually paying into the system there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U82	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Many thanks to the members of the Riigikogu for asking! Thank you very much for replying to the members of the government. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U83	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 9th working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U84	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the inquiry that 17 members of the Central Party Group will present to the Minister of Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool. Paragraph 37 (2) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, adopted in 2010, provides that the student is to be provided with at least the services of a specialist pedagogy, psychologist and social pedagogy or support specialists. In order to implement the service of support specialists, the school manager creates opportunities and is organised by the Director. The Final Protocol to the 2012 state budget negotiations of the Delegation of the Government Commission and the Municipalities Cooperation Council confirms that the parties agreed to continue financing support specialists on the basis of principles agreed in 2011. In 2011 it was agreed that the levelling-off fund's educational expenditure would be supported by teaching staff's salaries in order to enable schools to better fulfil their tasks under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the national curriculum, including the availability of support services. According to Tartu Postimees, after a teacher's strike, the Minister of Education and Research sent a proposal for coordination to the Ministry of Finance, according to which the money given from the state on 1 September should only be paid by teachers. This step of the Ministry of Education and Research means abolishing the previous agreement, which is why local governments need to find money to pay the salaries of school support specialists in the middle of the financial year. This means that municipalities will face an additional burden which was not taken into account in the preparation of the budget. Consequently, we have five questions. We want an explanation from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U85	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have accepted an inquiry. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending § 502 of the Health Services Organisation Act, initiated on 19 March, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee, and the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' submitted on 20 March, the leading committee of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has registered the departure of Riigikogu member Kalle Laanet from the Estonian Central Party faction. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and to Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9. Attention, please, to clarify the agenda. At the discussion on the 11th item, the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at first reading, the initiator will make a presentation by Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U86	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? I would like to ask my colleague Andres Anvelt as representative of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U87	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really see the need to negotiate anything here literally. I want to thank both the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee and all partners outside the Riigikogu. This list is quite long: representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court, also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the police, and, most importantly, our social partners, as they say, are representatives of the NGO Eluline, the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations, the Association of Estonian Women's Shadows and women's Lawyers. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, a very fine and sensitive issue such as trafficking in human beings and broken lives came to a greater conclusion as a result of intense work. At first, it certainly seemed that there would be no way of getting to it anytime soon. The multiplicity of opinions was often due to a lack of information, but I dare all of you to vote in favour of this law, as it certainly brings the Estonian legal system a step closer to the international community and also to the fact that we can be equal partners in order to fight even in the sense of the criminal world such a ferocious form of crime as trafficking in human beings. The adoption of this law will certainly also encourage discussion in society, as far as all forms of human exploitation, including sexual exploitation, are concerned. I think this means a certain upheaval in Estonian society. We understand that what concerns the so-called weaker side of society, or women, and often them as victims, when they are caught between the so-called gears is not just their business. During many discussions that took place during the discussion of this bill, and also more widely, the idea that we would meet women and make this legislative amendment often remained, we agree. In fact, we don't meet women, we meet society as a whole. If we let a certain part of society go underwater because we cannot protect them, then that is certainly not the interest of any gender group. I call on you all to vote in favour of this bill. I'm doing this with the feeling that it's actually the first step. It's just a definition in the Penal Code. In order to combat trafficking in human beings, it is also important to talk about today's sacrificial aid that we have to offer to these victims in almost nonexistent quantities. It must certainly be said that human trafficking in the form of buying a person should not be accepted in a normal country. But these are the steps that need to be taken one by one. So, power to you! I hope that we can reach a consensus on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U88	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We are going to prepare the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic 140. Please vote! 91 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U89	The third reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I would like to ask my colleague, Kalvi, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U90	President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, the bill on our tables regulates the procedures for the withdrawal and recovery of agricultural plastics. We also know that the European Commission has offered us subsidies in its next financial perspective, which are far from satisfying the expectations and needs of Estonian farmers. Moreover, if top-up cannot be paid, these subsidies will decrease compared to this year. As a result, we believe that any additional obligations that the agricultural sector may be subject to under different legislative proposals must be monitored very closely. During the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu, the members of the Social Democratic Party Group did not receive an exhaustive answer to the question whether the draft law would entail additional costs for the agricultural sector. We and many farmers did not receive these answers. The draft law on the coordination circle of ministries stated very clearly that the draft law should not add additional costs to the agricultural sector, but when it reached the Riigikogu, the clause had disappeared from the explanatory memorandum. As a result, members of the Social Democratic Party Group cannot vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U91	Thank you very much, Mr Kalvi Tough. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 155. Please vote! 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 13 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U92	The second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Statute of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Olga Sõtnik, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U93	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was held at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on Monday 12 March. No amendments to this draft law were received within the specified deadline. The Committee on Economic Affairs therefore adopted a decision to send draft Act 163 on the ratification of the Statute of the International Renewable Energy Agency to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a on 21 March, with a proposal to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U94	Thank you very much, Mr Olga Soldier. No questions for the waitress. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. There are no amendments either. This means that we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final draft Act 163 on the ratification of the Statute of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U95	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Act of Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Lembit Kaljuvee, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U96	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, initiated by the Government of the Republic, was held in the Economic Commission on Monday 12 March. Members of the Commission and Commission officials participated, there was no Commissioner Urmas Reinsalu, who was replaced by Tõnis Palts. As no amendments had been tabled to the Commission, the Commission decided to send the draft Act amending the Act on Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, initiated by the Government of the Republic, to the Riigikogu for a second reading today, 21 March, with the proposal to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a law. This decision was made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U97	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. No questions for you either. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments either. Ladies and gentlemen, I will final vote on the draft law amending the Act of Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 160. Please vote! 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, one against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U98	The second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Jüri Jaanson, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight two things before the final vote on the draft UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. First of all, for people with special needs, for those close to them and for those associated with them, the ratification of the Convention is a matter of dignity. Accessibility, individual autonomy and the protection of fundamental freedoms and human rights in society are the pillars of this Convention. It has taken five years for the President to sign the convention. It has taken five years to discuss whether we can do all of this or whether the Convention requires us too much. Five years have been waiting for society to recognise the existence and rights of people with special needs. The entry into force of this Convention inspires the belief that our society is taking a clear course to improve the world for them as well, to all those who have problems, including insurmountable problems in living in public spaces. People with special needs are eagerly waiting for this bill to come into force as a law. Secondly, this draft is a major and very important step forward towards social cohesion, but it is just one step. The next steps must follow immediately. These include the development of a national strategy for protecting the rights of people with special needs and its annual action plans, as well as the establishment of a mechanism for preventing and monitoring discrimination. The organisations of people with special needs are waiting here for the Ministry of Social Affairs and the government to be effectively handled and provide all the necessary assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and to appreciate that people with special needs are also guaranteed the best possible opportunities for self-sufficiency in their lives. A little bit of the technical part. The first reading of Bill 161 was completed in the large hall on 8 February. a and the deadline for the submission of amendments was 22 February. No amendments were tabled. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on 13 March, the following decisions were taken by consensus: to send draft law 161 to the plenary of the Riigikogu on 21 March, which is today and to adopt the draft as a law at second reading. The Committee on Social Affairs met for an additional debate on this issue on 19 March. The language editor's comments on the fact that one date was a bit poorly formulated were then examined and the explanatory memorandum drawn up by the Commission and the text of the second reading of the draft were accepted. Once again, the Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U100	Thank you, Mr Jüri Jaanson. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. I call my colleague Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will take the floor just because, before you press the button, you would think that we are doing a big thing today. We ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which aims to promote, protect and ensure the full and equal exercise of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with disabilities and to promote respect for their inherent dignity. It seems self-evident to us. We live every day according to this principle, but for twenty years the Estonian state has not been able to accede to this convention, to accept people with disabilities in essence, and to recognise them as equal to all others. There are currently 128000 disabled people in Estonia. That's 9.8% of our population. Almost every tenth person has a disability and so far they have not been recognised equally in Estonia. Ratification of this convention does not create new rights, as we have reached the point in our legal system that the rights of people with disabilities are, in fact, guaranteed, but real life has not caught up. I hope that all of you, 101 members of the Riigikogu, will help in your daily work to ensure that in future people with disabilities, i.e. one in ten people, are also treated in practice, in all individual matters, equally and guaranteed equal rights. I would like to thank all the organisations of the disabled who have worked for the ratification of this convention over these long years. I would like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who have had some pretty difficult negotiations with local authorities, so they have finally agreed to support this convention with their special clauses. I would also like to thank our colleague Jüri Jaanson, who has been carrying out the process of ratifying this convention in this Parliament. I am sure that everyone in this Chamber today will vote in favour of ratifying this convention. You are sending a very strong message to every tenth Estonian citizen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U102	Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U103	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, As the previous speaker said to begin his speech: before pressing the button, let us stop for a moment and think. Let us think that the Convention was opened for ratification five years ago. It took us five years! Five years! Let us think that society is as strong as its weakest link. Unfortunately, people with disabilities are a weak link. Let us think that the degree of civilization in society is determined by the way people view the weaker. In a herd of cattle, one who is lying down is trampled under his feet and eaten away, and in human society the behavior is still different. Let us think that there is plenty of evil and hatred in our society, and this is often expressed in politics. I understand when, for example, a member of a coalition party looks at a member of the opposition party as his enemy. Yes, politically, we may be enemies. At the same time, if the opposition party proposes a bill that protects the interests of its constituents, it will automatically fail because it turns out that the coalition party also hates the voters of the opposition party, who are not guilty of anything. They're human. There are also those who cannot cope well with their lives, there are poorer people, there are sick people, there are people with disabilities. Today, when we adopt this law and ratify the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, let us think that this may be a small step, but it is the first step towards having more tolerance, more understanding, so that Estonia's policy is based not only on putting one another away, but more constructive cooperation. This is a law that the Centre Party will also vote for. We are doing this in consensus and thinking not only about people with disabilities but also about the future of our society! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U104	Thank you very much, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. No amendments to the draft law have been received. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on the draft Act 161 on the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U105	The second reading of the draft law amending the Gambling Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. Toomas Tõniste, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an overview of the amendments tabled to the draft. After the first reading, three proposals were received from the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Following the completion of the first reading of the draft, the deadline for the submission of amendments was set at three months, in particular with a view to including a norm programme in the draft procedure and receiving feedback from them in the form of proposals or comments. Several amendments were formulated by the Committee on Economic Affairs on the basis of proposals forwarded to the Commission by the parties involved for consideration. The Commission received proposals from the Association of Estonian Gambling Organizers, Gambling Dependence Advisory Centre, Eesti Loto, Eesti Traaviliit AS and Dream Toys OÜ. In addition, the Commission received some proposals from the initiator's representative and one from the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Following the first reading of the draft, comments from the European Commission and Malta on the coordination of technical regulations contained in the draft were also submitted to the Economic Commission for information. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the proposals at four sessions. The first meeting was held on 16 January 2012. The representative of the initiator then gave the Economic Commission a preliminary overview of the proposals received. At its second meeting, held on 21 February 2012, the Commission examined the list of amendments drawn up by the group and the views expressed by the initiator on the proposals. There was also an overview of the proposals that were not included in the group's list of amendments and of the reasons why this was done. Kurmet Ojamaa, Head of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and Taivo Põrk, Chief Specialist of the same department, took part in the meeting of the committee as representatives of the initiator of the draft. In addition, the committee had also invited the Chairman of the Board of Eesti Loto Heiki Kranich and the Executive Director of the Association of Estonian Gambling Organizers Tõnis Rüütli to comment on its proposals. I will now give an overview of the proposals received during the inclusion process, which were not included in the table of amendments by the Preparatory Group. Firstly, the issue of gambling on board ships. The current law provides for certain exemptions for ships. Unlike land-based casinos, ships do not need to have automatic dispensers closed in a single space, but may be located in automatons. According to the Ministry of Finance, the current arrangement is reasonable; this approach has also been supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Secondly, banning credit card payments in gambling. According to the Ministry of Finance, the restriction would not fulfil the purpose set, as the person can take cash from an ATM with a credit card, as well as a SMS loan or a small loan via a mobile phone. Moreover, the restriction would only apply to legal gambling operators and participation in illegal gambling without authorisation would become even more accessible due to the possibility of using this method of payment. Thirdly, the criminalisation of agreements between sports competitions. The proposal is to supplement the Penal Code so that the benefit of a wager becomes punishable if the result of the game has previously been affected in order to benefit from it. The reason why it was not supported was as follows. A change could be made within the country, but unfortunately, according to the specialists of the Ministry of Justice, this too requires more in-depth analysis, especially the formulation of the composition of the crime. The representative of the Ministry of Finance considered the matter to be important and made a commitment to the Commission to deal with it in the future. Fourthly, just before the meeting of the Commission, the Estonian Traavi Union's proposal to amend the advertising law was received in such a way that the toto restrictions on horse racing were lifted. This may have been due to the fact that Eesti Loto had submitted a proposal to abolish all restrictions on lottery advertising. The members of the Commission wished to include the proposal in the list of amendments, and it was initially included. Fifthly, the proposal to amend the regulation of games of skill. The Ministry of Finance considered that the game of skill continued to be gambling and that it was not justified to exclude it from the regulation of the Gambling Act. The problem should be solved through the Gambling Tax Act, which does not make sense to deal with in this draft. A discussion was held at the committee meeting, questions and opinions were raised by the members of the committee. As a result, it was decided to vote consensually on amendments during the next working week, i.e. the seventh working week. A third meeting of the Commission took place on 6 March, with the participation of Taivo Põrk, the representative of the initiator, who gave further explanations on the amendments and answered the questions raised by the members of the Commission. I will now look at a few amendments that were not supported. I would first like to mention the third amendment tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, which the Commission decided to disregard. The reason why it was not taken into account was as follows. According to the proposed wording, all websites and telephone numbers that do not organise legal long-distance gambling would be blocked even if their activities were entirely legal. Figuratively speaking, all our websites and phone numbers would have been shut down. There was also a justification that, if the wording were to be changed so that only websites and telephone numbers through which illegal gambling is organised should be blocked by the communications service provider, it should be taken into account that this would only be feasible if, for example, the internet connection provider could monitor the entire content of the Internet. Maybe we can get back to ACTA, which is a very actively discussed topic. In some ways, he is very closely involved in this matter. I would also like to mention Amendment 10, which was also tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Commission decided not to do so on the basis of the explanations of the amendment and the objections raised at the Commission meeting. This concerns the need to limit the location of servers which, according to the Ministry of Finance, was not justified. The justification was also that the analysis commissioned by Eesti Loto, prepared by Resoft OÜ, gives an overview of possible technical configurations, but there is no explanation of how the data of Estonian players will be better protected due to the fact that the server used to store these data is located in Estonia. In addition to the proposals contained in the list of amendments submitted to the Assembly for second reading, five proposals were voted by the Commission which were not supported. First and foremost, there were provisions on lottery advertising. The Estonian Traavi Union's proposal concerning toto advertising was not supported. At the meeting on 19 March, two amendments supported by the Commission were discussed, one of which was the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group, which was aimed at clearly excluding the publication of sponsorship notices by gambling operators in Estonia to whom no operating and organisational permission has been issued in Estonia. This proposal had been essentially taken into account by the Commission at its previous meeting. The second was the revised version of the same proposal, which was proposed by representatives of the initiator of the draft from the Ministry of Finance and which had been fully taken into account by the Commission. The reason was that the Economic Commission had been approached by Karl Stern, chief specialist at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in connection with these two proposals, who had pointed out that, due to the technical regulation contained in the amendments, the draft directive, together with the corresponding amendment, should not be adopted as a law. However, the granting of a longer period of entry into force of the amendment is not, according to the specialist, a substitute for prior notification. On the basis of this information, the commission decided to re vote on the proposals. I would point out that the representative of the initiator of the draft also confirmed to the members of the Commission that the Ministry of Finance continues to support these proposals and is prepared to prepare a legislative amendment as a separate draft, which could be dealt with in accordance with all the rules on notification. On the basis of this information, the commission decided to re vote on the proposals and the proposal formulated by the Ministry of Finance was no longer supported in the new vote. The representative of the Estonian Central Party Group withdrew his proposal after obtaining confirmation from the representative of the Ministry of Finance of the development of a separate draft. Finally, and for the conclusion of the previous long story: the commission adopted the decision to send 88 draft laws amending the Gambling Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a on 21 March 2004 (by consensus), to propose to the Assembly to close the second reading (also decided by consensus) and, if the second reading is closed, to carry out the third reading. a 4 April and adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U107	Thank you very much, Mr Tõniste. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Tõnis Palts, to speak. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U108	Dear Chairman, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! When I replaced Urmas Reinsalu in the Commission, I came to take part in an interesting, extraordinary vote, where coalition parties voted the other way around. I like the Reform Party, but my values are sometimes very different from those of the Reform Party members. I want to get to the point that a contradiction at this level guarantees an ideal coalition. I like the Reform Party fighting for liberal values and free entrepreneurship. I myself believe in the power of the market economy at times more than the average reform party. I believe, contrary to some idealists, that there is no ideal state enterprise. But my contradictions with the members of the Reform Party begin where it concerns values on the second level. Don't, you guys, think it's gonna be wailing, see where they're making a budget for the unemployed. No, I'm not! This feeling is deeper. This contradiction came out well in the handling of this draft law. I'll start with an example a little further away. The Reform Party Prime Minister has repeatedly stressed that their leading politicians do not need income tax exemptions related to the number of children. I don't need it either. I've forgotten that advantage, but only because of the Prime Minister, sometimes I remember it. But I don't think we should discuss it that way. In particular, the income tax exemption for children is, above all, a sign that we care about children and families. We can't turn the sign into change. True, we could discuss whether this sign could be improved in any way. Now, a little closer to the point, but just a little bit. From the same speaker, a member of the reform party government said that alcohol advertising can be shown on television at night, as children then sleep. For me, it's not a question of whether children see a cider ad. The question is that we have to admit that alcohol advertising is simply inherently immoral and unethical, regardless of whether children are sleeping or not. This category is one level more important than the discussion of whether children see it. I understand that with this we are restricting entrepreneurship, people must have the freedom to decide, etc. But we must not allow the promotion of poisons. This is the line for me that runs between the Reform Party and the IRL. A gentle border, but a category higher than, for example, apologize, the thought of the middle party, a part of the middle party, can fly. This correction was due to recent political debates. By correction, I mean, I said 'part of the middle party'. Why the "part of the middle party"? I'll be there in a minute. Now, closer to the point, in the context of this law. The Ministry of Finance wants to give the state-owned gambling company more rights to advertise itself. It is argued that this will help to increase the revenue side of the budget in the form of potential dividends. I asked the representative of the Ministry of Finance whether the position of the Ministry of Finance is that there is a willingness to increase the advertising of vices in order to increase the state's revenue. I asked you to answer no or yes. I didn't get an answer. However, good friends from the Reform Party voted yes to this question. I understand them. That is the policy of the Reform Party. I am not saying whether it is wrong or right, but it is the policy of the Reform Party: to increase revenue for the sake of budgetary balance at every opportunity. I like this policy, but not always. I don't like it when you go against my ethical beliefs. There's a water gap right here. That's why I'm at the IRL. Why was I talking about part of the middle party? Because in this vote, some of the central parties really did not understand what level the debate was going on. Gambling is addictive, such as tobacco, alcohol or other substances, which society has agreed on in terms of harm. It doesn't matter if this vice is used by the state, the company, or the criminal to make a profit. This money is largely caused by a person's addiction. All in all, why am I talking about this? I am saying this because we have a very good coalition, because within it there is such a slight fundamental contradiction between the two parties: total liberalisation on the one hand and a small braking mechanism based on cultural standards on the other. We are in agreement on budgetary prudence and we are arguing in categories where some of the members of the opposition party do not reach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U109	Thank you very much, Mr Palts. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We go to the examination of the amendments, 13 of them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal has been fully taken into account. The second proposal has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal has been fully taken into account. The third proposal is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has disregarded the proposal. The fourth proposal is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee has taken the proposal fully into account. The fifth proposal is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee has taken the proposal fully into account. The sixth and seventh amendments are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The eighth and ninth proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The tenth proposal is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has disregarded the proposal. The eleventh proposal is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The 12th and 13th proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. Second reading of bill 88 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U110	The first reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U111	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The government will present you with a draft law amending the law on traffic. It deals with ITS regulations in the Traffic Act. It is based on a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe which provides for the establishment of a framework rulebook for the implementation of intelligent transport systems in the road sector. Paragraph 61, which we propose, consists of three paragraphs. This section provides the legal basis for the future implementation of the European Commission's pan-European specifications for the development, deployment and implementation of ITS. How it will work in reality is shown by time. There are currently no specifications of the European Commission on Intelligent Transport Systems. I propose that this draft be approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U112	Thank you very much, Minister. No questions for the waitress. I call Kalev Lillo, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U113	Madame Chairwoman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Road Traffic Act on 15 March 182. The draft was presented by Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Toomas Haidak, Head of the Transport Development and Investment Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Here we can use the words of Toomas Haidaku, who described this bill as the least dangerous change in his opinion that has ever had to be taken over from Europe. The only thing that raised questions was what this intelligent transport system is and how it can be used. One example is that if eCall (for example, if an accident occurs in a car, the car will essentially contact the Rescue Board itself), it would become operational across Europe, also in Estonia. The Commission adopted a consensual decision to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 21 March 2012. It was also proposed, by consensus, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 4 April 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Lillo. There's a question for you. Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U115	Thank you. Did you also discuss in the committee that the National Audit Office has expressed a rather negative attitude? He has claimed that the subject is still unexplored and so on. Was that the subject you were discussing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U116	Thank you. There was no such treatment in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U117	No further questions. Once again, Mr Lillo, thank you very much. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 182 amendments on 4 April. 6 p.m. The first reading of Bill 182 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U118	The first reading of the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U119	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government will submit a draft law amending the Natural Gas Act to the Riigikogu, which aims to bring Estonian law into line with the requirements of the Internal Market Directive of 13 July 2009 of the European Parliament and the Council. The main objective of the European Union's third energy package is to create effective competition in both the electricity and gas sectors and to treat all parties equally. To achieve this, both Directives require that the preconditions are met, the most important being the effective separation of the transmission system operator responsible for the operation and operation of the electricity or natural gas transmission networks from the manufacturer and the seller. The draft sets the direction for making the market organisation in Estonia more transparent, creating conditions for competition and new supply channels, and encouraging investment in infrastructure, thereby increasing the security of supply and energy security of gas supply in Estonia. In the course of the procedure for the Internal Gas Market Directive, Estonia requested a derogation from the provision on the allocation of the transmission system operator on the basis of the status of the isolated gas market with one gas supplier. Article 49 of the Directive provides for an exception for Estonia which does not require the gas transmission system operator to be separated from the gas manufacturer and seller until any Baltic State or Finland is directly connected to the natural gas network of a Member State other than Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania or Finland. The situation is changing. Indeed, the global gas market has become more opportunities for Estonia than the time for applying for an exemption. This is particularly the case with the introduction of non-conventional gas reserves and the expansion of transport possibilities for liquefied gas, as well as climate policy trends and the tightening of nuclear safety rules. There has also been a lively interest in the supply of LNG in the Baltic Sea region. For almost two years, the Baltic Energy Market Integration Working Groups have been working under the auspices of the European Commission, including the Gas Task Force. However, the situation of the Estonian gas market has not changed; Estonia is still dependent on one gas supplier and one source of supply. Therefore, despite the derogation granted by the directive, the government has started to seek alternative solutions to create the prerequisites for a functioning gas market in Estonia. One of the most controversial issues has been the choice of the system operator model. The Directive sees the separation of transmission networks from production and sales as a key prerequisite for the development of a pan-European gas market. If, on 3 September 2009, the transmission system belonged to a vertically integrated undertaking, the Directive leaves Member States the choice between three models of transmission system operators: full ownership unbundling, the so-called independent system operator model and the independent transmission system operator model of the group. During the development of the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act, we considered the application of different models of the system operator in Estonia. Based on the experience of other countries and the analysis of the impact of the European Commission on the implementation of the electricity and gas market package, we have concluded that for Estonia, the most proportionate for the development of the gas market is the actual model of the system operator, the transmission system operator independent of the seller and importer, the so-called TSO model. Estonia has set itself the objective of fully segregating ownership, designating the owner of the transmission network as the system operator and ensuring its independence from any sales and production interests. Of course, the government knows that the separation of the transmission network alone does not allow all the goals of liberalisation of the gas market and the actual emergence of the market (I mentioned them in part above), but this is the first step in the development of the gas market in the long term. The draft has been designed to minimise interference with the rights of the current system operator and transmission system owner. Ownership separation requires structural restructuring, asset valuation and sale of the current AS Eesti Gaas, followed by an assessment of the management of the company providing the gas transmission service in the course of the application for authorisation to provide the gas transmission service in accordance with the requirements laid down. These requirements are set out in the draft law. In order to give current owners sufficient time to restructure their ownership, the draft provides for the deadline of 1 January 2015 for the liberalisation of the gas market. Due to the derogation granted by the Directive, Estonia does not have a time frame for the process of liberalising the gas market, and the system operator has almost three years to take into account the requirements of the bill currently under discussion. According to the draft, as of 1 January 2015, the system operator is a system operator with a transmission system, has or is operated at a national border and has a new authorisation for the provision of gas transmission services. One year after the entry into force of the Act, the system operator shall submit a plan to comply with the ownership unbundling requirements. By 1 January 2015, if the system operator fails to comply with the requirements for the management of the gas transmission service provider, it shall transfer the transmission network. The transmission network shall be auctioned, which shall ensure that the best offer can be chosen. If the sale or production of natural gas continues in the system operator group after 2015, it shall be subject to a penalty payment. As an extreme measure, the draft also provides for the possibility of expropriating the transmission network. In addition to the requirements for the unbundling of the transmission network, the draft provides for the possibility of using LNG in Estonia, which has not previously been covered by the law, and contributes to the wider spread of biogas and gas from biomass. The draft also harmonises the requirements of the Directive on the extension of consumer rights and complements the tasks and rights of the Competition Authority in its decisions on independence in the area of gas and in strengthening cooperation with the partner organisations of the European Union and those of the European Union with competence in the gas market and gas networks. Changes to the Gas Act Amendment Act are essential for increasing the security of energy supply in Estonia in the long term (I am thinking here for ten years and beyond). In other words, this draft does not have an immediate effect, but in the long term it creates many opportunities in Estonia's energy and offers more secure choices and fairer prices to consumers. The expected impact of the law is to make market organisation more transparent, to increase investment in infrastructure and to create the prerequisites for the emergence of new suppliers and supply channels. The diversity of suppliers and the existence of additional supply channels create competition and increase security of gas supply and energy security. Finally, during the discussion of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, we have also agreed, as initiators of the draft, to some amendments in the working version, which I hope will be presented by the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U120	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U121	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. It is common knowledge that Russia uses energy carriers as instruments of its power policy. Similarly, it is common knowledge that it is important for Estonia to get rid of the monopoly gas supplier, create real competition on the market and indirectly get rid of the influence of this power policy instrument. It is also understandable that both Gazprom and the company that is related to him in Estonia are strongly opposed to this change. These opposers can be seen and heard from here and there. How do you comment on the position taken using the name of our scientists or even the name of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, which is very much based on one-sided sources and very written in one direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U122	Thank you. I would certainly like to stress that, in doing this draft, we have also held close consultations with the owners of Eesti Gaas, who are not only the Russian company Gazprom German company E.ON, Finnish company Fortum and the company Itera registered in Latvia. This cooperation has, in my opinion, been constructive. Many of their proposals have been taken into account. I do not feel at all that there is a consensus that the solution we have proposed is something unique. Similar processes take place in a large number of European countries. There have been some differences. I hope that the differences between the first reading and the second reading can be clarified once more. The differences are actually in many details, they are not general, either yes or no. The statement of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, referred to by you, goes to this heading rather than to oppose the general purpose of the European Union in organising the gas market. In my opinion, this is an inaccurate question, because energy market issues have been agreed at European level and 27 countries have joined this agreement. This is part of the development of the European internal market. Several third countries have repeatedly tried to raise this issue at European level. This is clearly an agreed position in Europe and we are now working on its implementation. I think we should focus on the details of some of the statements made by Eesti Gaas, whether there are issues that we can take more account of. The fact that we have to take a step here is absolutely clear. Speaking of Estonia's peculiarities, at the time I was the representative of the Estonian Government at these talks in Europe and I applied for this exception. As I said in my report, the change compared to the time we held these discussions in 2008 has been great. Significant developments have taken place. Nobody's telling us to use this exception, it's our chance. I think we need to take these steps to create a prerequisite for the development of the gas market. It would be a sin to miss this opportunity. I do not consider the statement of the Academy of Sciences to be the most successful achievement of Estonian scientists.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U123	Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U124	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Estonia currently produces more than half of the heat from natural gas. We know that prices are pretty high. Winter's just over, and a lot of people have seen big bills. Today, the most efficient and price-friendly cogeneration plants are the most consumer-friendly, producing both electricity and heat at the same time. In Estonia, cutting wood could be used in cogeneration plants, more jobs would be needed and the price would also be cheaper. There are currently only three cogeneration plants in Estonia. What are you doing as Minister for Economic Affairs to promote the creation of an environment where more cogeneration plants would be created? Indeed, home expenses would also decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U125	Thank you for that question. There's more than three of them. I would point out that we all took a significant step together in this Chamber when we passed the Law on Monopoly Control. It wasn't just me as Minister of Economic Affairs. This law creates a real environment for the Competition Authority to take steps as a so-called regulator. In the same way, he can be motivated, but in a certain sense, legal enforcement mechanisms can also be used to transfer district heating areas to more competitive fuel. In this way, the Competition Authority is actively involved. Surely this work must be continued. This is, in my view, the extremely right direction, and consumers are certainly winners here. We will also make investments that will benefit Estonia, Estonia's people and businesses in the long term. In my opinion, in addition to the adoption of the Monopoly Control Act and the functioning of the Competition Authority, we must continue to work in Estonia's small settlements, smaller district heating areas than larger cities and county centres. That's where we need to find certain motivational means to get out of the dead end. Whatever form district heating systems are currently organised, the company is not motivated to upgrade and produce heat more efficiently, not to mention that consumers are not able to force the company to do so. Here we need to find ways to solve this problem. But in most of the county centres, the law on the control of monopolies provides, in my opinion, a sufficient basis for carrying out these changes. They're already making them. Please note what is happening now in Tallinn: new heat suppliers are entering the market with different fuels, the competitiveness of gas is likely to decrease, its share is decreasing. These changes will also take place in several other county centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U126	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U127	Thank you. We have just heard that the Energy Council of our own National Academy of Sciences has come up with not the smartest decision. However, the National Audit Office has also stated its position on this draft, which is also our own state. It has analysed the adequacy of the impact assessments of the draft, the potential cost of the draft for the taxpayer and the gas consumer, and the problems associated with the expropriation procedure, and concludes on all these issues that the draft has been drawn up without the necessary analysis and preliminary work. How do you assess this conclusion? Do you not think the National Audit Office is as smart as the Ministry of Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U128	Mr Kallo, allow me to correct this: I did not say that the Academy of Sciences was not wise. I have not expressed such a view. The National Audit Office has appeared in a very serious letter and we have analysed it very seriously. To the general criticism that we do not have an analysis, we do not have the sort of thing thought out, I say that it means that not only the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but also all other Estonian ministries, government, professional organisations and interest groups just came together and made some kind of draft. I cannot categorically agree that there is no analysis! I have pointed out that the analysis of the gas market is actually ongoing since 2004. Within the framework of the Energy Economic Development Plans, gas issues have been constantly addressed. There is an analysis by the Estonian Competition Authority. However, I think the most serious analytical work on creating markets of different sizes is the European Commission's debate. If you don't call it analysis, what is it? It has been attempted to show that the government has taken a decision on one issue by choosing between the three models without analysis. I can't agree with that in any way either. The time to answer my question is very limited, but we can also quickly analyse two other models here, which we have ruled out. Let me briefly say that the so-called'system operator' model is essentially a model that is currently emerging. We have seen that the current scheme has in no way actually contributed to the creation of an alternative gas supplier, an alternative gas provider. It just isn't! It's been like this for 15 years. The second system offered is the so-called ITO model. Without going into detail, I dare say that it is such a bureaucratic model that would not be recommended by anyone. In the case of Estonia, this would mean that Eesti Gaas would be the owner of the company, but he would be completely separated from the company's activities. This ITO model, which is being sought to provide, was not in the European Commission's vision either, only as a result of very intense pressure in Europe eventually gave in to it. But I invite everyone who feels that there is little analysis to discuss these issues between the first reading and the second reading. We should demonstrate how unnecessary it would be to switch to such a model in Estonia. We would actually create a completely non-functioning gas network, that is our summary assessment. And given our very specific situation, including the need for intensive gas network activities, which may not be normal in countries where the gas market has more or less developed, i.e. mainly in continental Europe, it can be confirmed that Estonia needs an institution or a company that is truly motivated to deal with it. The motivational vectors of Eesti Gaas are not quite aimed at it. You don't have to prove that for very long. Once again, I assure you, there is an analysis. Among the other comments of the National Audit Office, one of the most serious comments I made was the criticism of the expropriation procedure. I dare say that we are working further in this area ourselves today, and it cannot be ruled out that the draft needs to be improved between the first and second readings. The National Audit Office also questioned whether it is ever possible to create a gas market in Estonia. You can always be suspicious. Like I said, this is one step, one assumption for something to happen. Further activities will need to be implemented. It is quite clear that the model of an independent system operator is a very strong signal that Estonia wants to create a gas market for itself. It could be a signal with a greater impact than any other action by the government, the ministry. It is a very clear signal that we want to do this, that we are going to look for solutions in a situation where the global gas economy is developing very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U129	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! My question also concerns analyses and is motivated by a letter from a member of the board of Eesti Gaas, which came in the mailbox of all members of the Riigikogu this afternoon. The member of the board of Eesti Gaas expresses a clear frustration about the activities of you and your ministry in preparing this draft and claims that the parties have not been heard. You have repeatedly stressed that the views expressed in the draft are based on an in-depth analysis. Eesti Gaas turned to the Ministry on 1 March to get the analysis data from you. As of yesterday, these data had not been issued to Eesti Gaas. My question is: for what reason have you not been able to issue data for this in-depth analysis to Eesti Gaas within 20 days? Has this analysis actually been carried out and is it true that a member of the board of Eesti Gaas claims that the parties have not actually been heard?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U131	That's not true. I have met several times myself, not with the person you mentioned, but with the representatives of the owners of Eesti Gaas. The high officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs have met and in constant correspondence not with the employees of Eesti Gaas, but with the real owners of Eesti Gaas, who have also sat in my office several times. This is not usually the case with drafts, you would normally form a committee here in such a case and start investigating the trade in influence. We've been consulting! The fact is that there are differences of opinion on certain issues, but there is no way I can accept criticism that we have not listened to the parties involved. Yes, we have different opinions on certain issues with some owners. However, as I said in answering one question, these opinions are not very different. That's one. Secondly, I cannot comment on the letter you referred to. After all, most of the analyses I am talking about are public talk about the choice of models, which, for one model or another, contributes to the emergence of markets. These are European experiences. We have also commissioned reports on the development of the gas market ourselves; they are available online. As regards the working documents that arise in this connection in the government and the ministry, several of them are working documents on which we do not put red covers around or put a large label 'analysis' on them. These are our working documents, which we will present in our speeches and other explanations of positions. And that's what I'm doing here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U132	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U133	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! I listen and listen and I try to understand why we have this bill here today at first reading. Clearly, both the Academy of Sciences and the National Audit Office say that it is raw. You're saying it's been prepped for seven years. But the situation is that we do not have a gas market and we do not know when it will come. If we adopt this law, we will actually increase the gas price significantly, for all consumers. Haven't you come here too soon with this bill? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U134	With all due respect, I assure you, it's not too soon. And I'd also say not too late, rather just in time. As far as price is concerned, this is not a very good argument. In the case of gas prices, it is the case in Estonia that 92 decimal points of gas prices are formed outside Estonia. We don't know how this price comes about, but it's known to be related to the price of oil. We always wonder if people who consume gas for room temperature complain about price changes. If the price unexpectedly fluctuates by 10 to 15%, this is the price change. In Estonia, however, the price of gas is at the end of the price, which is between 92 decimal points and 100 per cent. As far as transmission networks are concerned, their share of gas prices is currently 2 to 2.5%. Now that there is a dispute with one member of the management board of Eesti Gaas about which of the three models proposed by the European Union to use, none of these models have any specific features that would in any way have a special impact on the price of gas to the final consumer. None! The same rules apply to all as to how the gas tariff will develop. There is no link between the purchase and sale price of the gas network and the gas network tariff. This is a methodology approved in Europe for providing prices for this type of monopoly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U135	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U136	Thank you, Madam President. Honouritet minister! With this draft, the Competition Authority will have a significant number of new tasks. Have you also calculated the extent to which this creates an additional burden on our state budget, i.e. how much will it cost the taxpayer to realise the chosen model?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U137	I would not say that this extra burden is significant. Rather, the additional workload for the selected model is still measurable by wisdom rather than by the number of jobs. At the same time, I take this opportunity to draw attention once again to the analysis. This model, the short version of the ITO model, which at least the press advises us to use, would mean a significant increase in the number of competition authorities. This alternative model, one in three, we do not propose it, would mean that the Competition Authority would practically take over the management of the gas transmission network, and it would be responsible for coordinating and approving a very large number of individual contract projects. It will also be responsible for assigning managers to this core network company, etc., not to mention many specific coordination procedures. It is therefore necessary to build a firewall between the core network and the owner of the gas company. And that burden would all go down to the Competition Authority. There would be a significant increase in administrative burdens. But we haven't proposed this model, so we don't have to count on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U138	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U139	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to continue with the question of Mr Kaljuvee. However, in your opinion, what is the foreseeable impact of this bill on gas prices in Estonia? Or did I get you right that you don't think there's any such effect at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U140	The effect can be divisive. If the law creates a prerequisite for the emergence of alternative suppliers and supply chains, then a functioning gas market is likely to emerge, and in this case the question is more about how the price will change in the global gas market. Let me give an example that experts can certainly say that I am conducting a mild demagogue. The current reality is that in the United States, 1000 cubic metres of gas costs 80 dollars; in the Republic of Estonia, 400 dollars is the order of magnitude; I rounded it off when I counted the dollars into euros. That's the difference! In other words, we are doing this to create different gas supply options. We have also cooperated with Poland in discussing the use of shale gas in a certain time frame. Liquefied natural gas with its price fluctuations is certainly an opportunity that creates a completely different price situation on the market. At present, the price is such that the gas supplier has linked the consumer to a very harsh price model. In my opinion, in an outdated and inappropriate way, the price of gas is linked to the price of oil, and so we do not have any influence on that price. However, as a result of these and subsequent steps, there is a real possibility that there will really be a gas market, where the price can be very reasonable compared to the current one, not to mention the so-called price predictability for all gas consumers. Currently, no Estonian supplier knows how high the price of gas could rise by 2013. In this sense, the market will then be much more stable than in administrative decisions made in one place.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U141	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Since the price of gas really depends on the price of oil and we know that the price of oil is constantly rising, I am very worried about the warm price in Estonia. It is known that cogeneration plants based on local raw materials produce heat much more favourably than, for example, gas plants. It is also known that no cogeneration plant can be built without state support, and both Sweden and Finland have gone that way. I ask: does the Estonian state plan to support the construction of cogeneration plants, for example, with money from the sale of the CO2 quota or from the European structural funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U143	You're asking a question from some other opera, but I'm trying to answer. First of all, in the introduction to your question, you said that the price of gas is linked to the price of oil, and this is like a sensible plan. I'm just adjusting it to the information that it's no longer up-to-date. The linking of gas prices to oil prices is, in fact, a problem arising from a monopolistic vertically integrated situation where our individual consumers and our companies are unable to say anything. It's an outdated price model. But that's it. As far as cogeneration is concerned, we have a law on renewable energy subsidies. We intend to review renewable energy subsidies, and we hope that they will soon reach this Riigikogu. Then we can discuss this issue. I still represent the view that the system of support for renewable energy should be changed. Aids should be reduced both for new investments and for existing ones, and we must also bear in mind, in the case of subsidies, that they are economically viable. Today, we know that cogeneration plants are economically very profitable, we do too much for consumers. That's a problem. Whether this is now applicable to all small heat producers is a question of its own. What about future revenue from the sale of CO2 quotas? This debate is currently under way, where it would be best to direct them. There is also the question of how much revenue we are talking about. We do not really know what the market price of these units will be in 2013 and beyond. But this work is definitely going on, and your proposals and ideas are always welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U144	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U145	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Who could have something against competition, and we hope that this competition will also arise. But I ask: can it be excluded that before 2015, AS Eesti Gaas will sell the gas transmission network to an unduly high price investor who is secretly under the control of the current owners or owners of Eesti Gaas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U146	Eesti Gaas can do this now, but the law provides that the system operator of the transmission system and, consequently, the owner of the transmission system must meet certain conditions, which are assessed by the Competition Authority, which issues the licence. If it appears that the transmission system owner does not fulfil these conditions, the Competition Authority will withdraw the licence. The conditions must be brought into line with the licence, and the corresponding sanctions are also in place. However, at what price the owner of the transmission network sells the transmission network, the agreement between the seller and the buyer is in the end. I repeat, this sale and purchase price has no direct impact on the gas and transmission tariffs. It still takes into account the value of the assets, the recovery value and depreciation. This is a European methodology, which is also based on the Competition Authority, and for which this law provides the legal basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U147	Please, Mr Kalla, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U148	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! There have been repeated questions about the price, but I would like to continue this. The price of gas also includes network charges. When Elering separated the core network from Eesti Energia, network charges immediately increased by 17%. At present, I get an electricity bill where one third is the electricity charge and two thirds are the network charges. The National Audit Office also fears that, if gas networks are now separated, network charges may increase. Here it is found that this analysis is not entirely appropriate. The consumer does not care that if he pays EUR 300 for gas, the gas costs EUR 100 and EUR 200 are network charges. He still has to pay a total of 300 euros. Is there no reason to fear a sudden increase in network charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U149	No, it's not. And by the way, the information you brought about Elering is absolutely not true. I don't know who's been spreading that kind of data. I've heard these mega numbers and growths from a lot of people, but they're just not true! Give me an inquiry! I'd like to give you the numbers on the slides so that one day this demagogy will end. I will take this opportunity and repeat it once again: Mr Kallo, there is no direct relationship between the network tariff and network ownership. The monopoly has clear rules on how the network tariff is designed, and has no direct link to this demand. There is one small exception, though. Indeed, the European directive that we are taking over temporarily provides for a rate of return of up to 2% higher than the normal rate of return for the network operator. This is a legal opportunity that we will also give to the Competition Authority. In other words, if the normal rate of return for such natural monopolies is around 7%, the European Commission has, with its directive, allowed the Competition Authority to accept up to 2% more until 2020, probably in order to provide incentives for possible additional investments related to the transfer. This is the place. But its impact on gas prices, if that is the case, is extremely marginal for Estonian consumers. I also tried to argue with you on a figurative basis based on numbers when I answered one of the earlier questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U150	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U151	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The draft law states strictly that until 1 January 2014, the gas company will submit invoices in parallel in cubic metres and kilowatt-hours. As a practical person, I ask you, Mr Minister: could you explain how I can control the kilowatt hours after 1 January 2014? Or must a person fully trust those accounts that are submitted by a gas company?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U152	All the measuring instruments have been checked and all the verifications are supervised by independent institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U153	Please, Mr. Taavi in the garment!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U154	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Listening to these answers and questions, I keep asking questions. A lot has been said about the price. The price will rise when the costs increase, and once this law is passed, the costs will start to be allocated, privatized, invested, etc. Like I said, when the costs are spent, the price goes up. Of course, you can argue about how much and when, but you probably don't have to do it today. The question is this: do some countries have a positive experience of opening up the market to competition in the case of gas grid unbundling?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U155	Thank you. First of all, the introductory observation that when you talk to people, amazingly many people think that if the company's name is Eesti Gaas, it is probably an Estonian state-owned company. Quite a few in the public domain know that this is a company with a majority share in Gazprom. This knowledge, however, brings us closer to understanding that Estonia's national interests and the interests of this company may not always overlap one hundred percent. But my question is about the Energy Council of the Academy of Sciences. This was a mistaken statement that the Academy of Sciences had taken a stand. I checked it out. It is the Energy Council, which is a panel of experts, and it is chaired by Arvi Hamburg, who has also spoken on this matter. I clicked on the website of the Academy of Sciences on her name, her email address is numberi.hamburg@gaas.ee. And the domain gas.ee is known to belong to Eesti Gaas. Is this an employee of Eesti Gaas? Do you see a conflict of interest here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U156	First of all, a correction. In the introduction you said that the majority shareholder of Eesti Gaas is Gazprom. He's not a majority shareholder, he owns 30 percent with something, but according to the shareholders' agreement, he has the right to control all decisions. You know, to be honest, I can't answer your question. Arvi Hamburg is a highly valued specialist in my opinion and he should be working in Eesti Gaas, but I do not know his position.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U157	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U158	We can do some serious mid-term review when this third gas market package is in operation and for some time running, when we are talking about Europe as a whole. Let us not forget that, in parallel, there is a similar debate on market rules and their implementation in many regions of Europe. In other parts of the world, investment in infrastructure is a very topical issue. Indeed, physical infrastructure would also support the real market. So a serious summary of whether Europe's third energy package has been successful maybe in two or three years' time. However, I cannot fail to state that the more you ask, the more questions and doubts I have. From the introduction to your question, I realized that we have, as if, a gas company that will never have to invest anything again, and that is the kind of happy condition in which the price goes down all the time. If this is our vision for the gas economy, I think it is a very serious strategic vision. I, too, have long held that the gas economy should be gradually replaced by others as a result of this situation in Estonia. But for the time being, it is worth the effort to avoid losing time, given the fundamental changes that have arisen with regard to the various possibilities of using gas in the world. Otherwise, I'd share your vision that the best gas is non-gas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U159	The government has no intention of acquiring a gas core network. It cannot be ruled out that this plan might occur, but there is no such intention at the moment. Our draft is based on the fact that we want to create a regulatory environment and that such investments are made by private companies operating in this area. It cannot be ruled out that, as life develops, we must come back to this issue, but there is no plan at this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U160	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U161	Thank you, Minister. I ask: does the Government of the Republic have a plan that the Estonian gas pipeline will also be acquired by the Estonian state or by a company belonging to the Estonian state? And if that's the plan, where will the money be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U162	Please, Mr Dress, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the meantime, I looked in the Internet openings for details about Arvi Hamburg and found out that it was an Estonian Gaas adviser. And if you believe the references on the Internet, he's been there for a very long time. The point of my question was that if he spoke as an expert on these issues, while being the salary of one very clearly interested party, whether there could be a conflict of interest here. Or at least it would be correct if every time, for example, he spoke on behalf of the Energy Council of the Academy of Sciences, he would also mention his permanent job in AS Eesti Gaas. The public would then have full information. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U164	I agree with you a hundred percent and more. And this applies not only to today's subject area, but also to the wider field. People who speak actively on all sorts of issues in the public can really enlighten their background, otherwise they do not know what they think.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U165	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U166	Well, the requirement applies to who owns the main pipe. I would point out that we need to separate the main pipes and the small pipes in the case of gas pipes. Today we are talking about the main tube, which is very easy to look at on the map of Estonia and which is easy to see for thinking people. We're talking about these pipes. The owner of these pipes must not be the person who manufactures gas and sells gas in one way or another, on both sides of the pipe, and has nothing to do with it. That's the basic rule. These conditions are, by the way, in the draft law and in the directive in question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U167	We talked about these tests long and hard. It's a question of what kind of analysis someone's looking for. You can analyze infinitely. I have read this letter from the National Audit Office and generally respect the views of the National Audit Office. In my opinion, it is also not correct to refer here to certain possible interests of the chairman of the Energy Council of the Academy of Sciences, and we do not know whether or not they exist. If the National Audit Office sends an official letter, it could refer specifically to who the official is, who has told them so. I've been visited by every official in the Department of Economic Affairs involved, and they've assured me, just in case, that they haven't spoken to me like that. Let us be honest, we have been analysing this impact on Estonia in one way or another since 2008. This argument simply is not true! At the same time, it is really clear that both the IRL and the Reform Party were in the position to draw up a government union programme that if we want to take any steps here, we should go this way. It was quite clear on both sides and it was based on the analyses I was talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U168	Thank you. Dear Minister, Much has been said today in this Chamber about the impact assessments of this draft. If you rely on a letter from the National Audit Office, the National Audit Office points out that sufficient impact assessments have not been made. They have also come up with such an interesting view that when they asked for all these documents, the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications replied that the relevant impact analyses were not carried out for the draft on the ground that the content of the legislative amendment was derived from the programme of the Government Union. My question is as follows. If it is simply stated that such a draft is in the programme of the Government Union and there is no analysis of the impact of the draft, have you consulted on this matter? And is it possible to receive these annexes in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U169	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U170	This Hamburg behaviour, I hope, I can also talk to the Keevallik about it, is, of course, a very gross violation of academic ethics. I'm interested in another subject right now. You said, and this is the case, that Eesti Gaas is a certain cross between goat and rooster. There's still feathered and furry kind of stuff out there. There's KGB company Itera, there's Gazprom and there's a relatively polite E.ON, the Germans. What's so much to blame them for? But here's the problem. The competition is damaged by the fact that Eesti Gaas buys its own gas at Gazprom's order. This is not a problem, for example, with the Germans. They're just, uh, welding a little bit. If we are talking about divorces now, do we know in this case that Eesti Gaas has different owners, that there are two relatively honest owners, one being E.ON, and the other is Toivo Jürgenson?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U171	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U172	Thank you. Dear Minister, However, it can be expected that the current gas price at which Eesti Gaas sells will be increased by a network fee, as the current operation of the routes is included in the price. And clearly, the network operator is going to charge this price and we have to pay it now. I ask: why, then, can we not draw parallels to what is happening in the field of electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U173	Gas is gas, electricity is electricity. The price of the gas grid is included in the price of the network. After all, we discussed the additional price on Mr Kaljuvee's question. At present, all network costs are included in the network price and the principles of network tariff formation remain unchanged compared to the current ones. And electricity is still in Estonian homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U174	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U175	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a question about the reproach that has been voiced here at Mr Hamburg's address, whom I do not have the honour to know. Does the Energy Council of the Estonian Academy of Sciences consist only of Mr Hamburg? Probably not. Has it perhaps been known that he was hiding his involvement with Eesti Gaas from his colleagues, who also belong there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U176	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U177	Thank you for that question. But I really have to owe you an answer. We, at least myself personally, and also the entire Ministry of Economic Affairs, have had quite intensive communication at different times with the Energy Council of the Academy of Sciences. Unfortunately, I haven't talked to them lately. I can't even tell if its composition has changed. I know that academic Lippmaa has left and Mr Hamburg has been elected chairman of the council, but I do not know how much the composition has changed. However, of course, the Energy Council is a collective body. How has this matter been discussed there, I cannot confirm that neither I nor the experts from the Ministry of Economic Affairs have been invited there. Normally, when they discuss energy issues, people in the Ministry of Economic Affairs are invited to participate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U178	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! What is being done with pipes at our neighbours in Finland, Latvia and Lithuania?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U179	This derogation applies to Finland, Latvia and Estonia. The Finns are more in standby and thinking mode right now. In Lithuania, these processes take place, laws have been passed, discussions are ongoing with the current owners of Lithuanian Gaas. At times, they are difficult to follow, there are quite a number of different issues that are discussed once at an enormous high political temperature, once again not. In any case, the direction is roughly the same. Latvia, as far as I know, has not moved a single thing in this regard. However, they do have this exception. But all this information isn't the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U180	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U181	Thank you. Yesterday, Jõgeva was a municipal day where the question of high heating prices arose. For example, Jõgeval has to pay for one megawatt-hour with VAT, these are the data of the Competition Authority, 81.61 euros, while Pärnu has to pay 49.55 euros. That's a big difference. It has been very well explained to us that cutting wood would be much cheaper. I ask you again: how do you plan to encourage it, or what plans do you have, so that it becomes easier to get to the municipalities and the houses get heated more cheaply?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U182	We have a regulatory environment in which the Competition Authority has the opportunity both to motivate and force district heating companies to invest, which should ensure competitiveness. The key is largely in the hands of municipalities, as they have to make practical decisions on ownership and investment obligations for district heating regions and companies. If electricity and heat cogeneration can be implemented, there is a fully-fledged legislative basis for its additional economic support. At the Environmental Investment Centre, we have a number of measures open to support smaller cities. These have been quite large sums of money, crowning a few hundred million, if not more. Surely this programme should be continued. A separate subject I see is the need to work on, small populations, small towns and cities. It's more complicated there. So we need to keep this subject on the agenda, and we are certainly working to make a difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U183	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U184	Thank you. Dear Minister, You didn't answer my question earlier. You said this bill was based on analysis. Good practice in submitting the draft provides that analyses, position papers, coordination etc. are to be included in the draft. My question is: is it possible to get these analyses, position papers and coordination in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U185	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. I would like to ask my colleague, Kalle Palling, who is a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U186	Sure, but it's still mandatory to have a draft explanatory statement with the relevant annexes. And they're presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U187	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. A good minister who must, unfortunately, sneak away! Good listeners! The first reading of the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs. a on March 15, 2004. The meeting was attended by the President Arto Aas, the members of the Riigikogu Urve Palo, Kalev Lillo, Kalle Palling, Olga Sõtnik, Toomas Tõniste, Tõnis Palts and Rein Aidma, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, the Head of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Ando Leppiman and the Chief Specialist of the Energy Market Service of the same department, Helja Kullerknup. The aim of the draft is, in particular, to align the law with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in natural gas. The initiator of the draft has also decided to waive Article 49 of the directive, which provided for a derogation for Estonia and did not require Estonia to implement the ownership unbundling of the transmission system from the gas producer and seller until another Baltic State or Finland is directly connected to the natural gas network of a Member State other than Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania or Finland. The aim of all of this is to create the prerequisites for a genuine gas market. Today, Estonia's heating economy depends largely on the gas supplied by Russia's Gazprom. This is close to 50%, which clearly means the risk of a single supply chain, as well as the risk of energy security. In electricity production, the potential of gas is currently untapped. It is clear that both the development of the global gas market and the European climate policy could win the Estonian gas market by organising it differently. One supply chain does not ensure competition, which means that the share of natural gas is decreasing. As a result of the liberalisation of the market, competition is created, allowing consumers to freely choose their supplier, thus creating a competitive price. The Minister also explained that this is a transposition of the directive. He stopped at length on the options for transposing the requirements of the Directive and explained why the Government of the Republic has proposed to use the first option, i.e. ownership unbundling. Its argument is a clearer and more transparent process, and it has also been the first preference of the European Commission. The second and third options, according to the independent system operator model (ISO) and the independent transmission system operator model (ITO), would weaken the development of the gas market. According to the Minister's explanations, the question has been why Estonia does not use the exception that it itself has requested. The derogation allows the gas manufacturer not to separate the gas from the transporter. Non-respect of the derogation is due to changed circumstances and developments: it is necessary to create the possibility for different bidders to enter the market. The Minister repeatedly confirmed and stressed that the allegations that there had been insufficient consultation and discussion with the parties were not valid. A close meeting has been held with representatives of all parties, namely Gazprom, E.ON, Fortum and Itera. Since this is such an important issue, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided at its meeting to go over all the questions very thoroughly and to draw up an extremely detailed protocol which is already available on the website of the Riigikogu under the link to the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would also give you a detailed overview of the questions asked and the responses of the initiator of the draft. Is what is planned in Estonia an exceptional or ordinary operation in Europe? This is a very common process. All the countries of the European Union must transpose the third energy package. In order to take over, the same method that the initiator of the bill in Estonia wishes to use will be chosen in other parts of Europe. So this is a complete ownership distinction. The European Commission also prefers full ownership unbundling. Next topic: Eesti Gaas and the National Audit Office have pointed out that this model and these foreseeable developments have not been sufficiently analysed. Isn't this an excessive rush? Explanation: already in the development plan for the energy economy since 2004, Estonia's gas supply is based on only one supplier and diversification of supply chains should be a priority for the state. The same is noted in the development plan for the energy economy since 2009, which aims at the construction of LNG, or LNG terminal. So the process of creating an open gas market has been close to ten years. The next question: perhaps someone may be complaining that a fair price is being brought down by means of legislation? If consumer prices can really rise in the short term, the idea of market liberalisation is, in fact, to achieve the diversity of suppliers, which should, however, lead to a decline in prices in the long term. It is good to compare this with the liberalisation of the electricity market that has just taken place in Estonia, which will be completed by 1 January next year. How has the energy security aspect been taken into account in the drafting of the draft? The current situation is that the share of gas in the total energy balance is about 10%, including for heat production 50%. Gas comes from a neighbouring country that does not apply the same rules as the European Union. This is a very clear risk of energy security. Since we are dependent on one supplier and on the price of gas that it is relatively arbitraryly determined, there is a high risk of becoming a victim of political manipulation of energy security. The meeting also covered the issue of LNG terminal. The question was whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had an overview of the state of the LNG terminal. One question has been the construction of a regional terminal, bearing in mind that the regional terminal must meet certain criteria that are very strictly fixed. Not every terminal can be a regional terminal. The regional terminal must be able to meet the needs of the wider region, defined as the three Baltic States with Finland. Three Baltic States are defined as smaller regions. The locational disputes are mainly due to the possibility of investment support from future European funds for the construction of the terminal. In the case of a terminal that cannot meet the needs of one or two countries, it does not meet the criteria of the agreed regional terminal and does not allow for the application of investment grants. The latter, however, require the project to be sufficiently profitable for investors. The location discussion continues. The European Commission will carry out further and more in-depth studies to determine the location of the regional terminal and how to do so. The study deadline is September this year. At the same time, no one is currently prohibiting private companies from investing in a terminal, coming to the gas market and starting to produce gas. The position of the state is currently such that it is necessary to monitor what private companies are doing. As a company, AS Elering has looked more closely at this market, initiated studies and discussed the possible location of the terminal. Next issue: Do you not see the risk that the price of acquiring a gas network might unexpectedly rise significantly? Here it is the task of the Competition Authority to ensure that the gas network has a fair price. In doing so, the Competition Authority will assess the historical acquisition value, the restoration value, the depreciation of the different parts of the network. All of this will ultimately shape the cost of acquiring the network. This methodology excludes artificially high prices for the acquisition of a gas network. What, then, about potential acquirers of a gas network? According to the law, AS Eesti Gaas is obliged to sell the network for a certain period of time. There's no record of who he has to sell it to. Whether AS Elering is one of the potential buyers will become clear over time. There is no decision anywhere that Elering should acquire a gas network. At the moment, it is only known that AS Eesti Gaas has already started looking for a possible gas network buyer. One fundamental question, which was already voiced in this debate, was also addressed by the Commission. According to the current version of the draft law, the new owner has the right to charge a 2% higher core network fee, on which the Competition Authority has sent a letter. The explanation is that this right is currently being proposed, as at the time the draft was drawn up it seemed to be the reasonable compromise that the owner of the network wanted. It has now gone a few months and, looking at the scope of the negotiations, it seems that this solution may not be sensible and maybe it does not need to be negotiated. In this way, its impact on the consumer tariff cannot be assessed more precisely. We will certainly come back to this issue in the Commission between first and second readings. Now a topic that has been extensively addressed in various analyses, as well as in the media and here today. This is an expropriation, which is stated in the draft as one measure. This has certainly been the main subject of discussion in all discussions, both at the National Audit Office and in the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and, of course, in the circle of owners of Eesti Gaas. Forced alienation as such is certainly not a new thing within the meaning of the Natural Gas Act. It also exists in the current law. In which cases may the Competition Authority apply for expropriation of the gas network? These bases are: if the gas system operator operates without authorisation or does not continue to operate or otherwise undermines the functioning of the gas market. As has been said on the previous issue, we must come back to it between first and second readings and further assess the proportionality of this measure to the rule of law and the objective pursued. The directive also provides for different measures, which could be implemented and which would be tough enough, at last through the activities that are enshrined in the law. One such method is forced money. The last big issue was how we ensure that the new owner is safe for Estonia from a security point of view. What procedure guarantees this? When granting an authorisation, the competition authority shall check the background of the new owner of the gas network. The European Commission will then examine the company's background. This should ensure that the owner of the gas network is separated from the seller in all respects and should take any opportunity to manipulate. Next, the Chair of the Economic Commission made two proposals. First, to authorise the Chair of the Economic Commission to ask the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for further legal analysis of the text of the second reading of the draft, if necessary, following the receipt of the amendments, in order to reduce the criticism of the lack of legal analysis. Secondly, apply the 15-day deadline instead of the usual 10-day deadline for tabling amendments. This is so that all the parties can deepen the text with sufficient depth between the first and second readings and present their proposals. Among other things, the chairman of the committee informed that representatives of the Competition Authority and Eesti Gaas were also planned to be invited to the discussion before the second reading of the draft Act amending the Natural Gas Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act. As the draft goes to first reading in coordination with the initiator for reasons of legal clarity with the technical amendments to the standard, the responsible advisor proposed that the Committee on Economic Affairs prepare a draft explanatory memorandum on the amendments to the draft. The explanatory memorandum to the original text would not be corrected. The decisions were as follows: First, to authorise the Chair of the Economic Commission to ask the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for an additional legal analysis of the text of second reading following, if necessary, the receipt of the amendments, in order to reduce the criticism of the lack of legal analysis. The decision was consensual. Secondly, to draw up a draft Explanatory Memorandum of the Committee on Economic Affairs to 166 of the amended text, subject to the amendments made to the draft. That too was a consensual decision. Next: send the draft to the plenary session for first reading on 21 March, propose that the first reading be closed and set a deadline of 15 working days, i.e. 12 April 2012 at 4 p.m. I would like to point out that all the decisions taken at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs before the first reading were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U188	Thank you very much, Mr Palling. Before we go to the questions, ladies and gentlemen, I say that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications asked me to leave because he hurried on the plane, and I gave that permission. That's why he's not in the hall right now. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U189	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, First of all, thank you for having a thorough overview of what happened in the Committee on Economic Affairs. But the content of this long presentation was hidden: what is the purpose of this legislative amendment and what will the consumer gain if this legislative amendment is implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U190	Thank you for your question. The purpose of this amendment is to develop a truly functioning gas market in Estonia. This is primarily in the interests of all customers of Eesti Gaas, including 50% of households, which are currently heated by gas. Once the gas market is launched, new supply chains are created, the possibility of access to the LNG market will be created, and the possibility of access to the biogas market will be created. The latter can also be produced here in Estonia. The price of gas in competitive conditions is very clearly in the interests of consumers A number of examples from recent history show that the development of the same gas network and the price of gas are interdependent. For example, in Belarus and Ukraine, Gazprom has specifically made it a condition that if their 50% stake in the gas core network companies in the respective countries persists, the gas price will be much lower for them. I think that Estonia is not interested in this approach in any way; it is in our interest to have a normal gas market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U191	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U192	Good manager! Good waitress! Did the Commission discuss what would be the sale price of the main networks of the gas pipeline?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U193	In this sense, I can give a very simple answer that the sale price of the gas pipeline can correspond to the price of the assets of this route. Whoever is going to buy it will look at the price coordination that the Competition Authority has given to the network. However, the Competition Authority uses the book value of the assets as a basis for price coordination. Both in the media and in other statements, including in the letter of the National Audit Office, different orders of magnitude have been made from 25 million euros to 150 million euros. In the end, the Estonian Gaas and Competition Board will argue what the book value of the assets of Eesti Gaas will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U194	Please, Mr Kõiv, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U195	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The fact that 92% of the gas price we pay has actually been decided outside Estonia also sounded here today from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. We do not have any access to this decision, we do not have knowledge of the justification of the price and everything else, and we cannot control it. If we separate these networks, the monopoly price-setter will disappear and there will be a real chance of market competition, new service providers. It is very simple: on one side there is Gazprom at its opaque price, on the other side there is possible market freedom, on the market price. Did the Commission also state the reasons why some politicians believe that Gazprom's price is better than the market price?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U196	There was no such approach in the Commission, and may God keep us from reaching such an approach, so that we somehow begin to view the price of a very powerful gas producer and supplier as better than the price of a market economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U197	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U198	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Can you tell me how many licenses of the system operator have been issued by the Competition Authority in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U199	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Palling. I'm opening negotiations. My colleague, Urve Palo, as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, wishes to make a statement. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U200	I cannot answer by heart, and this issue was not part of the Commission's discussion either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U201	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. In principle, the Social Democrats support the idea of separating the natural gas core network from both the manufacturer and its so-called distribution network, or seller. However, there are a number of aspects that need to be addressed. First of all, I am talking about why we support this idea. We support this because we do not consider it right that only one producer of natural gas can offer natural gas on the Estonian market. We are actually depending on the decisions of the Russian Federation to sell natural gas to Estonia at what price. However, if we create a situation where more gas providers can enter the market, the pressure on gas prices will probably increase and the price will either decrease somewhat or at least not constantly rise. We know that today, however, the price of natural gas depends on the price of oil on the global market, the gas providers are closely monitoring the price of oil offered. We also know that oil prices are on an upward trend. At the same time, a global market for gas providers has emerged. LNG, or LNG, is also offered, and suppliers may be from America, Qatar, Norway, etc. In the future, shale gas from Poland may also be an option. A situation where more than half of the heat produced in Estonia comes from gas is certainly not reasonable, regardless of whether or not we face competition from gas suppliers. It is known that the production of heat from natural gas is the second most expensive after electricity production. The heat generated by cogeneration plants is much cheaper for consumers. It is therefore a concern when we are talking about the mere need to create a situation where competition among natural gas providers would arise. We consider it in some way a magic wand that will lower the consumer prices of heat in the future. Unfortunately, I don't think that's the case. This does not mean, however, that I am not in favour of a divorce. In particular, I am in favour of separation from aspects of security and the future perspective. Natural gas makes sense to be used primarily for electricity generation. Why did I ask the Minister for Economic Affairs a lot of questions today about the co-production plants that are working on chipped wood? Because I would like to hear more firm positions and concrete policies on this issue from the state. There are three well-functioning co-production plants based on chipping wood in Estonia: Pärnu, Tartu and Tallinn. We know that they are really effective, that all the heat and energy generated will be exploited, and that consumers' heating bills will be considerably lower. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U202	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U203	We also know that our closest neighbours, Finland and Sweden, for example, have gone down this road of scattered co-generation plants across the country. However, it is also known that it is not possible to build any power plant without state support. Therefore, the Minister's statement that we have the Competition Authority, which, as if, should pressure local authorities and plant investors to build more rational stations, is not very sensible. Once again: without state support, this action will not expand. It is now known that many investors are waiting on whether or not to continue the planned cogeneration plant design. The state sends a wide range of messages, starting from the intention of changing existing renewable energy subsidies, until it is clearly stated that these are important areas for the state and that the state will, for example, allocate funds from the European Union's Structural Funds and from the sale of CO2 quotas. Such decisions can only be made by the State. We know that we can finance the construction of environmentally friendly cogeneration plants with European Union money. We also know that the operating costs of these cogeneration plants will be much lower in the future, because we do not have to buy expensive CO2 quotas, for example, for oil shale plants. I do not mean co-production plants like the ones we have in Narva on Eesti Energia oil shale roofs, which are also used for heating oil shale, in addition to chipping wood. The benefit we get from getting chipped wood into the boiler there is about 30% of the water we send to the Narva River, which could actually be used to heat the homes. In addition to this, we will pay Eesti Energia a renewable energy fee for this activity, even though it is literally wasting our resources. All in all, the Social Democrats are voting in favour of the bill. But we are following very closely the whole process before the second reading, and we very much expect the Ministry of Economic Affairs to have more concrete visions about the development of heat production and energy in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U204	Thank you. Arto Asa, representative of the Reform Party, please. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U205	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Government of the Republic has sent a draft natural gas law to the Riigikogu, the content of which is the separation of gas networks from sales and production activities. In terms of ownership unbundling of transmission networks, there are two important objectives: increasing the energy security of the Estonian state and creating the conditions for competition in the Estonian gas market. The ownership unbundling of gas networks is widespread and accepted in the European Union, and now it is also being implemented in Estonia. We are currently in a situation where 100% of the gas consumed in Estonia comes from Russia. The export of Russian gas is carried out by Gazprom, who is the major owner of AS Eesti Gaas, the dominant AS. The share of gas is particularly critical in the production of thermal energy. Nearly 50% of Estonian heat energy is produced from gas, including most of the district heating in Tallinn. You can only imagine the dimensions of this socio-economic disaster if, for some reason, in the midst of the cold winter half of the capital is left unheated. It is clear that while one monopoly controls the market, other gas companies do not want to invest in Estonia and take excessive risks. The preservation of one supplier and supply chain generally means a quiet decline in the use of natural gas. At the same time, the global gas market has developed exponentially in recent years. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) is also becoming a real alternative to gas from Russia in the Baltic Sea region. Managing political, technical and commercial risks is in the interests of both the Estonian gas market and gas companies, whose customers will thus gain greater confidence that the supply will not be disrupted. After all, we do not want the dirty events of Russia and Ukraine to recur in Estonia a few years ago. The Russian-Ukraine gas war in 2005 and 2008 was the alarm bell for a large part of Europe, declaring the risks in the gas market. According to many observers, Gazprom's actions at the time constituted political retaliation for Ukraine's withdrawal from Russia's sphere of influence. Other observers consider that the increase in gas prices before the winter was supposed to affect the popularity of President Viktor Yushchenko before the elections. It is also claimed that this was Moscow's attempt to gain control of Ukraine's gas pipelines. Whatever the motive or cause of the gas war, the fact is that gas supplies to Ukraine and other Europe were reduced by nearly a third in the middle of winter. The risk of energy supply is neither a joke nor a fiction; it is the reality in which we live now. Unfortunately, we see that Gazprom still uses the classical whip and carrot strategy. In addition to threats and other forms of force, Gazprom has offered both Belarus and Ukraine a more favourable gas price when these countries transfer control of gas transmission networks to Gazprom. In short, it is about giving up economic and political independence for cheaper gas. I very much hope that Estonia does not wish for the same fate. The opponents of the Natural Gas Act have used criticism that the draft law has been developed in haste and without analysis. Such rhetoric can be used for any decision, any draft. In this case, this is not at all true. The monopolistic and closed gas market has not met the expectations of the Estonian state for years. The unsatisfactory competitive situation and the directions and possibilities for improving it have already been reflected in the long-term national development plan for the fuel and energy economy adopted by the Riigikogu in 2004 and in the national development plan for the energy economy adopted in 2009. When considering alternative models for ensuring the independence of the system operator, the Government of the Republic came to the conclusion during the drafting of the Natural Gas Act that no model other than ownership unbundling would ensure real competition. The purpose of ownership unbundling of the transmission network is to achieve a situation where an independent system operator would carry out its core business, invest in its networks in time and have no incentive to discriminate against anyone. The decision was also based on the conclusions of the analysis of the economic impacts of the European Commission's energy package on the implementation of the electricity and gas market package. One conclusion is that the emergence of a ownership-separated system operator is a fundamental prerequisite for the emergence of competition. It is also not considered possible to guarantee energy security by less intensive methods. The Internal Gas Market Directive also refers to the European Parliament resolution that ownership of transmission networks is considered to be the most effective instrument. The selection of the system operator model in the draft amendment to the Natural Gas Act is also supported by a study carried out by Pöyry on the possibilities and options for the liberalisation of the Estonian gas market. One of the main conclusions of the study is that competition in the Estonian natural gas market is still possible and necessary, despite the unfavourable situation. The feasibility of ownership unbundling has also been confirmed by the Competition Authority in its 2009 and 2010 electricity and gas market reports. One of the main arguments for choosing the model of the system operator was the experience of countries in the European Union where genuine competition between gas sellers has developed. In countries where ownership unbundling of the transmission network has not been carried out, there is insufficient competition and gas prices are largely dependent on the dominant gas seller. In view of the above, it can be confirmed that the draft has been drawn up on the basis of very long-term, very thorough and independent analyses, which not only concern the European gas market, but also take into account the legal space and geopolitical situation of Estonia. The draft amendment to the Natural Gas Act is designed to minimise interference with the rights of the current system operator and transmission system owner. The system operator has almost three years to comply with the requirements of the law. According to the draft, the deadline for ownership unbundling is set at 1 January 2015. Only if the owner of the transmission network does not comply with the requirements which will enter into force may enforcement or expropriation be carried out. The draft has been carefully analysed for the compatibility of the ownership restriction with the Constitution. To sum up the constitutional analysis, natural gas is a strategically important sector for the state. Increasing energy security and creating competition in the gas market are strategically important objectives for the country. The intervention of ownership of the natural gas transmission network is proportionate and justified given the importance of the targets set and the public interest. It is certainly not important to take seriously the claims that changing the owner of the transmission networks will lead to a surge in gas prices. It is useful to know that the regulation of gas transmission charges is subject to the Competition Authority. Transfer charges shall be calculated on the basis of the value of assets, depreciation, investments and reasonable capital productivity. The ownership of networks has no meaning whatsoever in establishing transmission charges. Moreover, network charges have a marginal share in the prices charged to the final consumer, especially in a situation where the monopoly gas supplier has the freedom to increase the price of the gas sold not by a few but by a few decades. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments to the Natural Gas Act do not, of course, solve all the bottlenecks in the Estonian gas market at the same time. Within the framework of this law, we do not decide on the LNG terminal to be built in Estonia and even less on its location. We are still developing the basic conditions for a genuine gas market. The field of work is wide and it is time to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U206	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Lembit Kaljuvee! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U207	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd really like to go to the gas market, too, right now. But I ask: does this bill, which we have been discussing for quite a while here today, bring us closer to the gas market? Does that solve the security issues that have been discussed here? All kinds of questions were asked here today, and the minister and other waitresses tried to answer them. I stress that you tried to answer. Unfortunately, there were no single and clear answers. And it wasn't because people are stupid because they don't know. There are just no answers, that's the problem. There were a lot of questions. My question was, isn't it too early to discuss this subject today? After all, there is no gas market in Estonia and it will not be possible to create it in the near future. But we'll chop the door or we'll open the door to get into that market. It is good that an attempt is being made to open one measure so that there will be a gas market in Estonia someday. Indeed, if the core network were owned by a reliable legal or natural person, it would certainly be a prerequisite for competition to arise. In certain cases, this would also be good in terms of security. But in the current situation, what are we practically achieving by adopting this law? We will achieve that, as if we are opening the door so that the price of gas starts to rise. We're gonna do it, I'm stressing, we're gonna spend some time separating this network, playing around with somebody. It's expensive. Of course, I would very much like to see the gas network in the hands of the Estonian state. I am of the opinion, and the Centre Party is of the opinion that all strategic infrastructure objects should be in the hands of the state, both for the security of the state and for the purpose of earning money for the Estonian state. The Estonian Energy Networks are currently being used for this, in this case through the Estonian Energia dividends. That would be nice, and that's what I would be in favour of if we had a sure scheme that we could get the gas grid, and then in the future, when the market is formed, we'd be earning it. This law opens such an opportunity in a sense, but it does not specifically. So here we are talking about security aspects and security of supply, well, that can be done. Theoretically, all these things can be imagined, but the practical value of this law is neither for the Estonian state nor for consumers, neither today nor tomorrow, nor in the near future. It's gonna be worth a lot to those of you who are gonna start billing and sending these bills. And who do these bills come to? They're coming for the consumer! From this point of view, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party does not consider it appropriate to continue reading this bill. The debate has been very interesting, but it should take place in other places, which should be discussed by ministerial officials. We cannot adopt such a crude law, and that is why we have a proposal to reject the draft at first reading. I have this kind of paper, and I'm handing it over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U208	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. With regard to bill 166, the position of the commission is that the first reading should be concluded. At the same time, the Board of the Riigikogu has received a proposal from the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which proposes to reject the draft law amending the Law on natural gas and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities 166 after the first reading. Before we go to the vote, let's start preparing it. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act 166 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 52 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 166 amendments on 12 April at 16 a.m. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U209	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Ratification of the European Social Charter, initiated and supplemented by the Government of the Republic, 177. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present to the Riigikogu the draft law amending the law on the ratification of the revised European Social Charter. Its purpose is to recognise the Republic of Estonia as further linked to the five rights contained in the Charter, with a total of eight numbering provisions. Riigikogu passed the Act on Ratification of the Charter on 31 May 2000. Estonia then ratified the 79 numbering provisions of the Charter, i.e. the Charter was not fully ratified at the time. Additional commitments will ensure additional protection of the rights of Estonian residents and will testify to the development of Estonia's social field over the last ten years. The law does not ratify all the provisions of the Charter, which has not yet been recognised by Estonia, but only those for which it is assumed that we already have measures to ensure that these rights are respected. Point 1 now ratifyes Article 10 on the right to vocational training, which has not yet been ratified. This provision reads as follows: 'To effectively implement the right to vocational training, the contracting parties undertake to establish or promote a system of apprenticeships and other systematic training for young men and young women in the workplace. ' Point 2 ratifies the right to social and medical assistance under Article 13 (4). This provision reads as follows: 'To effectively exercise the right to social and medical assistance, the Contracting Parties undertake to implement the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article equally to their own nationals and to nationals of other Contracting Parties legally present on their territory, on the basis of obligations under the European Convention on Social and Medical Care signed in Paris on 11 December 1953. ' Paragraph 3 ratifies the right to engage in commercial activities in the territory of the other Contracting Parties under paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of Article 18 which has not yet been ratified. This provision reads as follows: "To implement effectively the right to engage in profit-making activities in the territory of the other Contracting Parties, the Contracting Parties undertake: (1) to implement existing legislation liberally; (2) to simplify formalities and to reduce or eliminate taxes and taxes paid by migrant workers or their employers; (3) to liberalise, individually or collectively, legislation on the employment of migrant workers; while recognising: (4) the right of their citizens to leave the country in order to engage in profit-making activities in the territory of the other Contracting Parties. ' Point 4 fully ratifies (paragraphs 1 and 2) Article 26, which has not yet been ratified, on the right to dignified treatment at the workplace. This provision reads as follows: 'To effectively implement the right of workers to dignified treatment at the workplace, the contracting parties undertake, in consultation with employers and workers' organisations, to: (1) raise awareness and awareness of sexual harassment, to help prevent harassment at the workplace or in connection with work, and to take all appropriate measures to protect workers from such behaviour; (2) raise awareness and awareness of repeated deplorable, clearly negative or offensive acts against the employee in the workplace or in connection with work, to help prevent such behaviour and to take all appropriate measures to protect workers from such conduct. ' Under the revised and revised Annex to the Social Charter, this article does not require the Contracting Parties to adopt laws. Point 5 fully ratifies Article 30, which has not yet been ratified, which governs the right to protection against poverty and social exclusion. The provision itself reads: 'To effectively implement the right to protection from poverty and social exclusion, the Contracting Parties undertake: (1) to take action in the framework of general and coordinated action to increase the real chances of finding employment and housing for people living in poverty or socially excluded and for members of their families and those at risk, to receive training and education, and to use cultural, social and medical assistance; (2) to review these measures from time to time in order to adapt them where necessary. ' The adoption of the bill demonstrates the importance of protecting social rights and developments in Estonia's social field and brings positive international attention. The bill does not directly contribute to the additional costs of the state budget, because the law only ratifies those provisions that have not yet been recognised by Estonia, for which there is a clear presumption that we already have measures in place to guarantee these rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U211	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Committee discussed the draft law amending the Act on the ratification of the European Social Charter, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, at its meeting on Monday 12 March. Merle Malvet, Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, had presented the draft. As the Minister gave a very thorough overview of the draft, I will not repeat this presentation. The members of the committee were consensually pleased that additional points of the Charter had been brought to the Riigikogu and the following consensual decisions were taken: to send the draft to the plenary session on 21 March, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments. a 4 April at 6 p.m. I was appointed rapporteur. All these decisions were made in full agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U213	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. As we have heard from the member of the commission, the unanimous proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 177 amendments on 4 April at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U214	We will move on to the 10th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act 189 on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. I would like the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U215	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to introduce the draft Act 189 on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova. The social security agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova was concluded with a view to developing cooperation between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova in the field of pension insurance. The agreement contributes to the realisation of the pension rights of persons residing in the Republic of Estonia and in the Republic of Moldova who have acquired retirement age in the territory of those countries. The contract also ensures the continuation of the payment of the pension granted under this agreement when the person receiving the pension of one of the Contracting Parties moves from one country to another. The purpose of the contract is to prevent the payment of pensions for periods of insurance overlaping with those of the other party to the contract. The need to conclude a contract is due to the fact that persons residing in the contracting countries may have worked and thus acquired pension rights in one country or another and could now lose their rights under the agreement without such an agreement. It also follows from the need to conclude an agreement that both countries were part of the Soviet Union and that persons may have overlapping periods of insurance. The substance of the draft is, in conclusion, that the contract provides for the granting and payment of a pension under the terms and conditions laid down in the contract for the insurance periods of both parties to the contract, irrespective of which country the person resides in. Both parties to the contract determine and pay the pension only for their periods of insurance and, if necessary, the pension is exported. The main task of the agreement is to ensure that the pension rights of persons residing in the territory of the Republic of Estonia and of the Republic of Moldova are better realised. It is important to note here that the contract does not apply automatically to a person, but is applied on the basis of a person's application. The law is intended to enter into force in general and the contract itself shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the month in which the legal acts necessary for the entry into force of the agreement have been carried out by both parties and confirmed by written notices to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U216	Thank you. I assure you, there are no questions. Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee, will be asked to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia on Monday 12 March 189. Katerin Peärnberg, head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, gave an overview of the draft, explaining that it aims to ratify the social security agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova. The agreement contributes to the realisation of the pension rights of persons residing in Estonia and Moldova who have acquired retirement age on the territory of those countries. More specifically, the Minister has already spoken about these situations. On Monday this week, it was decided to put the draft to be dealt with on the agenda of the plenary session on 21 March. Our proposal is to conclude the first reading and set the deadline for amendments at 6 p.m. on 4 April 2012. Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee, was appointed rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U218	Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 189 amendments on 4 April at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U219	We will move on to the 11th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U220	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce to you, with the permission of the government and the power of the Minister of the Environment, the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act. The purpose of the draft is to change the fees for eel fishing on the waters where the state is settling juvenile eels to increase stocks. The amendment concerns professional fishermen who would in future pay for 30% of the costs of setting up instead of 100%. This means that the average fishing right fee per hooker will fall from EUR 350 to about EUR 100. The amendment is based on the principle that fishermen should pay for the introduction of an eel in the amount they themselves actually catch. Fish scientists estimate that about a third of the stocking waters of eel are caught by professional fishing, while the rest of the eels migrate from the water bodies. In the future, fishermen will not have to pay for fish that do not actually reach their prey. The legislative amendment proposed by the Minister for the Environment makes the payment for eel fishing fairer and improves the situation of professional fishermen. In order to settle an eel, Lake Võrtsjärv, Lake Saadjärv, Lake Kuremaa, Lake Kaiavere and Lake Vagula cost approximately 210000 euros a year, 84% of which goes to settle in Võrtsjärv. In the future, there will be two alternatives to public funding: the European Fisheries Fund or the Environmental Investment Centre. We certainly support the proposal to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U221	Thanks! There are questions. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for this constructive presentation. You said the bill would create a situation where catching an eel would, in a way, become cheaper for a fisherman. Could it ultimately affect the price of selling this fish in a more favourable direction to the consumer, or has the government not discussed this issue in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U223	Thank you. The government has not really discussed this in this form, but the practice shows. If it is a good year for eel, then usually the price is a little better than that of a poor year for eel, then the price of an eel is a little more expensive, just like for other fish species.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U224	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U225	Minister for Social Affairs, I, too, thank you for this draft. Mr Aru and I have dealt with this problem quite a bit and visited fishermen several times. Is it by chance that the Minister of Social Affairs is reporting this bill? In addition to the price of the trap, this bill does indeed have a very positive impact on the social situation of all these fishermen's families. Otherwise, if it is said that the government is taking away something and pursuing a strict monetary policy, then there are a number of families that are spending less.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U226	Thank you. No further questions. Annely Akkermanni, member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U227	Thank you for your question. The government will act like one man, and if you need help, you'll still be helping each other. Unfortunately, since the Minister for the Environment could not come forward with this extremely positive draft himself today, he asked me to do so. I am happy to do so because I too have a close connection with fishing and fishing. So if, as a result of this draft, the social well-being of families is also improved, then of course, as Minister for Social Affairs, I am only happy about this and will have to wish all fishermen the strength needed to make the harvest good.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U228	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act was adopted by the Riigikogu Board by decision of 28 February 43 and appointed as the commission of the Environment Commission. The draft was discussed in the Committee on the Environment at its meeting on 13 March and Herki Tuus, the chief specialist of the Ministry of the Environment's Fish Stocks Department, was also present. During the sitting, the question arose as to whether 30% of settlement costs would be allocated to fishing gear. Herki Tuusa's answer was yes. Jaanus Tamkivi was interested in finding the rest of the resources to settle the eel and whether the quantity would not be reduced. Herki Tuus replied that the additional funds would come from environmental charges received by the European Fisheries Fund and the Environmental Investment Centre, including those who are engaged in activities when they pay for the right to fish. As 60% of eels reaching their migratory age leave settlement waters, the catch of eel in these waters is smaller. The Commission also took note of the fact that this issue has been discussed with fishermen in Võrtsjärv for years, and several ministers and members of the Riigikogu have met with them. The purpose of the draft law is to bring justice to justice, so that the beneficiaries of inhabited eels pay for it, and vice versa, that the settlement costs of five lakes, Lake Vagula, Lake Kaiavere and Lake Kuremaa, and fishermen of Saadjärv and Lake Võrtsjärv will not be borne by the eels migrating from there. The Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the first reading of 187 be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 April 2012 at 16:00. All these decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U229	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have at least one question. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U230	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Was it also discussed in the Commission that, in view of the considerable reduction in the catch of eels, fishermen have a desire to reduce the number of eel traps? Legally, that would mean right now that if somebody quits, these bitch beans will go back on sale the other way around. In order to reduce the total number of traps, the law should be amended. Was there any mention of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U231	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U232	This was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U233	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Today's debate, and the fact that we are processing this bill, is probably good news for fishermen about their future. I'm sure you've even heard in Kihnu the old fishermen's story about those times when the eel was in the sea so much that it was thrown over the boatboard back, who still wants to eat that worm so much and who needs it. Could the measures that have been used for a long time to restore and increase the eel population ever return to the time when we would be seriously bored with this eel?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U234	The initial Eel Management Plan does not reflect such a picture that the time will come in the near future. I have never heard of Kihnu's tradition or ethnography that an eel has ever been thrown overboard. I know that when there was more eel, it was bought up and exported to Sweden during the Estonian era, but I have not heard of throwing back. The eel is at great risk in Europe. In 2007, a management plan was adopted, whereby 40% of eels should go into the ocean to replenish their stocks of eel. However, the eel only reproduces at Sargasso's sea and travels fast. In Estonia's inland waters and lakes, which the current draft law discusses, the eel population has recently grown only with the support of introduction, as the migratory eel does not move upstream of the Narva power plant's turbines. An eel has been established here since 1956. Today, these lakes are the main industrial eel fishing. There are very few eels in coastal waters in Pärnu County and islands.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U235	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am also very pleased that the Commission so unanimously supported this draft. My question, however, is in the same direction as my colleague, Jaanus Tamkivi, did. In addition to Väino Linde, most of the big eel friends are here. Did you also have data on eel catches in the Commission and fish catches in Lake Võrtsjärv for several decades to show that they have decreased over the last few years? Hasn't the Committee on the Environment had any idea of taking greater account of this whole eel issue? I don't know if it's national wealth, but still. Is it enough how many eel plants are reinhabited now? This issue has also been discussed by fishermen. It's nice that the country came to help, but maybe in the future the country needs more help?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U237	The Commission did not discuss this issue, but the European Commission has drawn up a general plan for the recovery of eel stocks and has already approved the Eel Management Plan submitted by Estonia for approval in November 2009. This document is on the website of the Ministry of the Environment and it is possible to monitor how drastically and quickly the catches of eel have decreased in Estonia. I happened to be interested in the subject myself, and I turned to Herki Tuusa, an official of the Ministry of the Environment, and asked if the eel population in these lakes could be larger, if more eels could be introduced there. He said he could, but the introduction of the eel is expensive and I don't think it's gonna carry out more financially. However, this is not a profitable activity. Even less effective is the introduction of eel into Lake Ermistu, for example, although it would probably increase the population of eel in Pärnu County and islands.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U238	I thank the waitress! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline of 4 April at 16 a.m. for the submission of 187 amendments to the draft text. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U239	We will move on to agenda item 12, which is the first reading of the draft Defence Union Act 190 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U240	Honourable Riigikogu! Good President! I will present a new version of the Defence League Act, which began well several years ago and was to replace the Defence Union Act adopted in 1999. To begin with, I note that the Defence League is a voluntary national defence organisation that was born before the Republic of Estonia was established on 24 February 1918. The current Defence Union Act is in principle well drafted and the basic principles governing the functioning of the Defence Union have been transferred to an important part of the new version. At the same time, a number of more technical details have not been laid down in the current law, which have often led to legal uncertainty and ambiguity. Given the fact that the Act on the organisation of the Defence Forces has entered into force in the meantime, and the Riigikogu has a new Defence Service Act and that many issues were difficult to regulate in the version of the old Defence League Act, it was considered appropriate to draw up a new draft law. I would like to highlight the main points of this bill. The bill does not change the essence of the Defence League. The Defence League will continue to be a voluntary armed national defence organisation, which will form a security carpet covering the whole of Estonia, by realising the principles of territorial defence in its own way. The draft provides for the Defence Union as a single organisation, bringing together the components that have so far been separate into a single organisation and eliminating the ambiguity in the status of the existing special organisations and their members. From now on, all members of the Defence League will be distributed as follows: active member, young member, supporter and honorary member. Another important change should be the clear definition of the tasks of the Defence Union. As an organisation carrying weapons, the Defence League is part of the state's armed forces, which needs clear legal regulation. The current law does not explicitly set out the tasks of the Defence League. The new law sets out the tasks of the Defence League: (1) increasing the will for defence, (2) increasing the security of the population, (3) providing military training, (4) guarding national defence sites, participating in rescue operations and participating in cyber defence. The military involvement of the Defence League with the Defence Forces is also provided for. However, unlike the law in force, which sets out the principle of direct command of the Commander of the Defence Forces, the competence of the Commander of the Defence Forces is clearly linked only to military training and preparation of military capabilities. The changes took into account the nature of the Defence Union as an independent public entity, where the governance of voluntary civil society organisations is ensured by the collegial bodies of the Defence Union. This combines a common military subordinate to the Commander of the Defence Forces, on the one hand, and a voluntary principle based on a civil initiative, on the other, which is reflected in the subjugation of the activities of the Defence Forces outside the direct military activities to civil control bodies, as provided for in the draft law. Compared to the current law, the use of weapons in the Defence League is regulated more flexibly, while ensuring adequate national supervision. In addition to the weapons provided by the State for use by the Defence League, weapons may also be acquired by the Defence League itself. The Defence League still retains the right to acquire a privately owned weapon to participate in the activities of the Defence League. The possibility of using a weapon in a civilian registry trained by the Defence League may be mentioned as a novelty. One important new chapter concerns social guarantees for defence allies. So far, they were vaguely worded, but according to the new draft, the defence ally, who is injured in the performance of his duties, is subject to exactly the same compensation mechanisms as the defence officer. One important difference with the past is the possibility for active members of the Defence League to receive up to ten free days a year in order to participate in emergency response or training sessions of the Defence League. So far, only the Defence Leagues working in public offices had such an opportunity, which was unfair to the defence allies working in the private sector. This will give the country the opportunity to respond more flexibly to large-scale emergency response. I am quite convinced that the prepared Defence Union law will provide a new and stronger basis for further development of the Defence Union. The Defence Union continues to play an important role in national defence, ensuring its broad-based and comprehensive support through voluntary contributions. Therefore, the Government of the Republic is proposing to you to make this draft even better, to approve and to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U241	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Thank you, Minister. Aivar Riisalu, Deputy Chairman of the National Defence Commission, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U242	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft Defence Union Act before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 12 March, where Chancellor Mikk Marran of the Ministry of Defence, Taimar Peterkop, Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Administration, Veiko Lukmann, Adviser to the Minister of Defence, and Lieutenant Colonel Raivo Lumiste, Head of the Defence League participated as representatives of the initiator. I would like to reiterate here that the Defence League is the legal successor of the Defence League established on 11 November 1918; it is part of the Defence Forces; it is a voluntary, militaryly organized, militaryly organized, national defence organisation, which carries out military exercises and performs the functions assigned to it by the Defence Union Act and pursuant to it. What is positive is that the role of the Defence League in civil life is growing and its role in supporting society in different situations is becoming increasingly widespread. The main task of the Defence League is to increase the readiness to defend Estonia's independence and constitutional order, based on voluntary wills and self-initiatives. There are currently more than 13,000 active members of the Defence League, along with women's home protection, Youth Eagles and Home Daughters from special organisations of the Defence League, over 21000 volunteers have been involved. The full text of the draft law sets out the role of the Defence League in national defence, its objectives, tasks and structure, the legal bases for action and management, which is why it is a crucial document. The Riigikogu is dealing with a draft law on military service, the provisions of which the draft law on the Defence League refers. In addition, the Riigikogu is dealing with the Civil Service Act, which in turn is based on the draft Defence Forces Service Act, because the Defence Forces Service is a special type of public service. This is why the draft law of the Defence Union must also be dealt with in the light of these drafts. The National Defence Committee decided s. At the meeting on 12 March, by consensus, the Riigikogu Board is invited to include the draft law under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the ninth working week of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 21 March, or today. The rapporteur was appointed here. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu finish the first reading of the draft Defence League Act. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days, i.e. April 4th at 18.00, in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Act. I would conclude by saying to Confucius, the great thinker of the bill that is important to me and the Estonian people, that a great military leader can be defeated, a simple farmer with a gun is invincible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U243	Thank you. You have at least one question. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The last thought you have said must undoubtedly be accepted. Surely this bill is a very important part of all the laws governing the protection of our country. But just so we're not very scattered, maybe it's right if you give me a few more postulates. What makes this bill a very important law that it amends compared to the law of the Defence League in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U245	Today's draft Defence Union Act fixes the place of the Defence League in society in an up-to-date wording, organises its structure, possession of personal military weapons, storage, wearing, use procedures, somehow liberalises its management system. I think that could be the end of this. This is a law that, in a sense, brings us out of the 1930s because the Defence League has so far carried a great deal of the spirit of organizational reconstruction in the 1920s and 1930s. I think that the most important thing for us, and I am also speaking here as a defence ally, is surely that we bring women and children to an equal footing with us. They become a member of the organisation, and by this law we allow weapons training to be distributed to 12-year-old members of the organisation in the presence of an instructor, which is very reasonable. Maybe that's all for short.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U246	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The rapporteur from the Commission. You said such a sentence that the role of the Defence League in society is growing. My request is that you expand this one sentence a little bit and tell me how it grows.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U248	There's a very simple explanation. If we look at what is happening in the country as a whole, the Defence League played a very important role in ensuring public order in April. Today, the use of the Defence League for public order is clearly legitimate. These were the lessons that legally brought this task to the Defence League. In addition, the Defence League has played an extremely active role in regulating the crisis, including the flooding of Pärnu, forest fires, until the birds are washed out. The Defence League is ready to intervene with quite considerable force even in a situation where our perhaps somewhat weakened police and rescue system is unable, for example, to ensure the search for missing persons, the fires I have already talked about, cannot guarantee public order. The Defence League offers a very good pool of help police officers, and in fact the auxiliary police are being raised from within the Defence League, and the Defence League and the police are working very well together through it. I continue to argue that in the event of certain threats or, let's say, real conflicts that could threaten the national independence of the Republic of Estonia more widely, the Defence League will certainly be able to react in an operational manner, using its own weapons. This is the side of the Defence League, which is not much talked about, but I dare say, as a free Member of this panel, that I am not very sure that we will be able to carry out an operational mobilisation, where we will take the family fathers to a meeting point, provide them with weapons and equipment, and direct them to regulate the conflict. But I know that I and my associates from the Defence League know where their equipment and weapons are, they know what unit they belong to, and they're ready to react even if enemy N should land a deserter in the vicinity of Tallinn, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U249	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U250	Thank you for your previous answer. The law currently in force makes very clear the cooperation partners of the Defence Union. In a brief reading of the bill, I immediately did not find them there, such as local authorities. Are these also included in the draft law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U251	The cooperation partners of the Defence League are probably not very sensible to read in law for a simple reason. The draft law unambiguously states that the Defence League is a military-trained organisation that promotes its membership, and that the roles of the Defence Union in society defined in the law are defined by the law, namely: rescue, law enforcement, so-called spiritual education of people, increasing the interest of national defence, etc., require that the resulting cooperation be the subject of separate contracts. The Rules of Procedure of the Defence Union, which are based on the law of the Defence Union, lay down these matters in much more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U252	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U253	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, You seem to know very well the inner life and goals of the Defence League as an organization. What objectives are currently being set for the Defence League, for example, in five or ten years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U254	Unfortunately, I cannot answer one part of this question, because a certain part of national defence is stamped information in the case of the Defence League. If you answer emotionally, we haven't set an upper limit for ourselves. I am happy to admit that the Defence League, in particular my home-wrestling Harju Chevron, is a rapidly developing organisation, with dozens of young men and women joining us. The motivation of these people is high; they are well educated, mostly with higher education. For various reasons, they have been excluded from participating in national defence in the past, which Estonian laws allowed students to attend higher education institutions, and they never entered the military service. I can give an example of the practical thing that the Harju Chevron of the Defence League is going to create artillery, which is a new task for the Defence League, but clearly exists in the Defence Force Commander's Directive. I hope that my eight young colleagues from the parliament of the Republic of Estonia, who have given me a verbal promise to join the Defence League in the near future, will also bring me the necessary papers, will set an example for the Estonian people, and will clearly show that the Defence League is an organisation that could include 1232816 people as part of today's census, because everyone is welcome to the organisation. We will not, of course, achieve such a situation, but that could be our good long-distance goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-21_U255	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. But before we finish this, I will ask the representatives of the political groups whether they want to open negotiations. No, I don't. As the position of the commission is to conclude the first reading, I will conclude the first reading and set the deadline for the submission of 190 amendments at 6 p.m. on 4 April. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is on the agenda. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.28 p.m.
