ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the ninth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft amendment to § 502 of the Health Services Organisation Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U4	On behalf of 11 political parties and myself, I present an inquiry to Rein Lang about the lying or not lying to the Minister of Agriculture on the Estonian National Broadcasting programme 'The Spectator'. The March 8 show "The Spectator" accused the Minister of Agriculture of lying to Helir-Valdor Seeder. Sufficient evidence was used and both parties were given a say. After such a case, one politician has the opportunity either to resign or to sue the accusers of the Public Word Council. Neither of these options has been taken up by the Minister for Agriculture. In the past, the Minister of Agriculture has accused the Riigikogu of poisoning the viewers of "The Spectator." He's said he'd rather ban such a show. Attacking public television in this way is strange and inappropriate for a democratic state. The role of public media in small nation states such as Estonia is particularly important. The commercialisation of private media is increasing, and it is public broadcasting that must be a reliable source of information, whose key activity is the protection of a unique national culture and language. If this position cannot be maintained, both the preservation of national culture and the democratic development of society will be threatened. It is very difficult to defend this idea if we tolerate lying or false accusations on public television. In this regard, we have three questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted one bill and one inquiry. If the draft law complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall immediately forward the enquiry to the addressee. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Social Democratic Party faction. a draft law amending the Land Tax Act, launched on 15 March, and has appointed it as the commission of directors of the Finance Commission. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic (140 SE) by the deadline for submitting the documents underlying the discussion of the second reading. 19 March 2010 at 6 p.m. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10. Let us now go to the adoption of the agenda. This week's agenda will be on your desks. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U6	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. Answering questions begins. The first question is the members of the Riigikogu Kadri Simson, Lauri Laasi, Ester Tuiksoo, Priit Toobali, Aivar Riisalu, Lembit Kaljuvee and Jüri Ratas on 13 February in the s. a request for information on the dispute between the Estonian State and AS Eesti Raudtee. My colleague Kadri Simson of the speaker's desk, please. Colleagues, please keep your voice down!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U7	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Perhaps there must also be a separate address to all members of the Riigikogu who are railway interested and have remained in the Chamber. Seven members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts a month ago. This concerned the obligation to pay back 2.3 million euros that had fallen to the Estonian state some time ago. This obligation arose at the time when the current Minister of Economic Affairs was Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. The Republic of Estonia and the European Commission agreed already in 1998 to grant grants to Estonia in order to replace the tracks of the Tallinn-Narva railway line. The Phare programme allocated EUR 3.8 million to Estonia for this purpose. By 2004, the tracks promised to be installed by AS Eesti Raudtee. The condition of the agreement was that the company had to take up a supporting loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. During a later inspection, the European Commission's inspection officer found that part of the rails financed by the project were installed on other railway sections, the construction deadline had been exceeded and the compulsory loan from the Bank for Reconstruction and Development had not been taken. In 2005, the European Commission asked the Ministry of Finance for EUR 2.3 million of misused money due to the non-compliance with the initial project. The Ministry of Finance returned the money because it expected that it would have the opportunity to collect the money from AS Eesti Raudtee, but at the beginning of this year Harju County Court decided that the obligations of the State's foreign contract did not extend to Estonian Railway. The Court found, among other things, that in fact all the obligations of the country to meet the European Union's lending conditions were fulfilled, and the State has accepted this obligation, as far as we know. That is why we have five questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. I ask the Minister not to pay attention to the repetition of the order numbers, there are still five issues here. I am not going to read the questions, because the Minister will have an easier question and a better answer for himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U8	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. I would like to ask for the floor to reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U9	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, after the Harju County Court's decision, decided not to appeal against the decision of the Court of First Instance. Is it the Ministry's fault? 'The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not recognise what happened when the appeal was dismissed as a mistake of its own. The application was filed at the time when the Republic of Estonia was a minority shareholder of AS Eesti Raudtee and held 34% of the shares. Currently, all shares in AS Eesti Raudtee belong to the state. Given the nature of this dispute, the State did not consider it reasonable to continue the dispute with its company at the following stages of the proceedings. The rails delivered for the money of these Phare projects are still present as an asset within the railway infrastructure and can be said to belong essentially to the Estonian state through shares. It should also be taken into account that the legal situation in 2012 is completely different from that in 1999 when this project started and started to be divided into disputes. In 1999, Estonia did not have such thorough regulation of the use of structural funds as it is now. For the first time, the Law on the use of structural grants was adopted in 2003 and was the basis for many of the regulations of the Minister of Finance. Currently, the use of structural support is governed by the Structural Support Act for the period 2007 to 2013, which provides 37 regulations, 13 of which regulate various aspects of the granting, use, monitoring and recovery of aid. The Harju County Court also held in its judgment that the regulation on the basis of which to recover the aid should have been in force already in 1999, but no such regulation had been introduced by the legislator at the time, and the financial support granted for the various purposes of the European Union was granted through financial memorandums between the European Commission and the States. It should also be noted that the failure to appeal against Harju County Court's decision was not the sole decision of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. On my proposal, this issue was discussed by the Cabinet, which reached the same position. This debate took place in February. Question 2: "What has the Ministry learned from this case, and how will such situations be avoided in the future? " It cannot be said that the lesson to the State would have come from this particular case. The country has learned and developed in the past, because for some time there has been a very correct regulation of the structural instruments. I also pointed out in my answer to the previous question how precise and comprehensive the legal basis for the use and monitoring of structural instruments has now become. The third question: 'The Harju County Court found in its judgment that the state's allegations of a breach of the Estonian Railway Treaty were barely clear, because the state had not filed any claims before the court. Why was it decided to demand 2.3 million euros from AS Eesti Raudtee through the court? ' This question is not quite correct. In fact, the judgment does not state that the Estonian State did not submit any conditions for the use of this financial contribution to the Estonian Railway in 1990 or later. The court simply concluded that the extensive correspondence between the state and Estonian Railways at that time cannot be regarded as a civil contract, which is why the infringement of the contract cannot be attributed to Estonian Railways. For Estonian Railways, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Roads and Communications had communicated all the terms and conditions of the project that the European Commission considered necessary in the framework of the Phare project. Estonian Railway was aware of the mandatory locations and timetables for rail installation, i.e. deadlines. Shortly before the case was brought and earlier, therefore, during the execution of the project, there was a written and oral communication with Estonian Railway on the subject. Estonia decided to apply to the court against Estonian Railways in 2006, after the European Commission's request for repayment against the Republic of Estonia. This was based on an analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs and Communications. Of course, the ownership structure of Estonian Railway was also used as a basis. On the basis of the analysis, this requirement was found to be relatively promising. The fourth question: 'The Chairman of the Board of Estonian Railways found that all the confusion was caused by the privatisation of Estonian Railways initiated by the state itself. Has an analysis been carried out at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, how costly was it to privatise Estonian Railways to the Estonian state? ' I can only repeat that in 2001 the Estonian state sold the 66% share of Estonian Railway for 1 billion kroons and in January 2007 bought this share for 2.35 billion kroons. When was the over- and when was the undersupply, this is the subject of a separate question. Question 5: 'On the 2003-2005 Period, you were the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. To what extent did the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications inform you of this situation? " First, let's be more specific. The European Commission made a request for reimbursement on 27 July 2005. At that point, I was no longer Prime Minister, there was another government in office. But in order to prepare your answers, I've been looking into this question. At that time, the government repeatedly addressed this issue both at government meetings and at ministerial meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U10	Thank you very much, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U11	We will go to the next question: members of the Riigikogu Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Inara Luigas, Peeter Võsa, Deniss Borodichi, Valeri Korbi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo and Yana Toomi on 15 February. a request for information on voluntary health insurance. Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U12	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen and good Minister. The inquiry submitted by 13 members of the Central Party Group relates to a matter such as voluntary health insurance. In particular, persons who are not insured at the health insurance fund have the possibility to enter into a voluntary contract. Contract payments are currently calculated on the basis of average wages. The law states that the amount of the insurance premium payable under the contract per calendar month shall be the product of the number 0,13 and the average monthly gross wage, expressed by Statistics Estonia in the previous calendar year, rounded to the nearest ten cents. I mean, this calculation is based on the average salary. Insurance contributions are currently 103 euros per month, 309 euros per quarter and 1236 euros per year. But many people without health insurance are unemployed and are often overpaid. The question is why the premium should not be calculated on the basis of the minimum wage, as the premium calculated on the basis of the minimum wage would only be EUR 37,7. I repeat: the payment calculated on the basis of the average salary is EUR 103, but the payment calculated on the basis of the minimum wage is EUR 37,7. In this regard, we have five questions to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U13	Thank you very much, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U14	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Let's start by answering questions. The first question: 'For what reason has the amount of so-called voluntary health insurance contributions been based on gross monthly wages? ' I can rely on what the authors of the bill and the legislator's explanatory statement wrote when they made the Health Insurance Act. The reason given in the explanatory memorandum is as follows: 'Considering the situation in which the Estonian insurance market does not currently offer a voluntary health insurance product, the Health Insurance Fund allows certain groups of persons to insure themselves with the health insurance fund by concluding a corresponding contract. Such persons are treated as average working insured persons, their monthly insurance premium is 13% of the average salary in Estonia, and this does not depend on the size of their insurance risk. Persons covered by this contract shall be treated as persons insured under the law but shall not be entitled to temporary incapacity benefit. " This reason, according to the legislator's understanding, was very clear at the time, was considered to be an " extra'option and was considered to be reasonable for the calculation of this additional option to be based on average wages. The second question: 'How much do you think the level of voluntary health insurance is justified, compared to, for example, the part of the health insurance paid on the minimum wage? ' As I mentioned above, the provision of voluntary insurance meant at least a group of middle-income persons, in particular those returning from abroad to Estonia. In the light of the above, it can be assumed that the voluntary health insurance contribution was in this form at the time and is certainly well-founded at the present time. Unlike the conclusion of a health insurance contract with private insurance companies, when a voluntary contract with a health insurance fund is concluded, the level of the person's insurance risk, i.e. the "health risk', is not assessed. Therefore, in our opinion, it is not justified to extend the possibility of obtaining this insurance by reducing the amount of the premium. As the insurance risk is not assessed, in the event of a reduction in the voluntary health insurance contribution, the persons who are voluntarily insured may be entitled to sickness insurance benefits on the basis of compulsory insurance. When it comes to the nature of voluntary insurance, it is certainly a different type of insurance than solidarity insurance provides, and consequently it has been treated differently. We know that we have health insurance as compulsory insurance and that health insurance also covers persons seeking employment and fulfilling the conditions laid down by law when looking for a job. So the state has also created opportunities to insure the unemployed and the exercise of this right is a free choice for the individual. Question 3: 'How do you assess the proposal to set the level of the premium as the basis for the number 0,13 and the product of the minimum wage? " When you listened to previous answers and looked at the reasons of your day, it is clear that this proposal, which is very reasonable or serious for consideration, certainly cannot be a proposal. If this proposal were implemented, the person would be covered by a minimum contribution from the sickness insurance budget, and would be entitled to all benefits in cash and in kind, regardless of the actual cost of treatment. It would be the responsibility of the Health Insurance Fund to cover, inter alia, the costs of providing health services in a Member State of the European Union under the conditions laid down in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The reduction in insurance taxes can, in our opinion, increase the number of "unofficial" cases. The question certainly arises here: if a person has no income, what money would he cover for this smaller voluntary insurance? If the person has an income, it is also possible to obtain health insurance, depending on the reason for the insurance cover, whether it is working, being an entrepreneur, or if the person is abroad, he or she is entitled to health insurance under the law of the country where he or she is employed. Question 4: 'How much could you consider that there would be an increase in the number of persons insured under the contract if the premium were to be reduced? " It's almost impossible to predict. I'm sure the heirs will admit it, too. We do not know how many people without income would be able to pay such an insurance premium. As I said, the possibility of insurance cover is currently guaranteed by different legislations in Estonia for all persons. Similarly, it is not excluded that persons who currently pay their own or for whom social tax is paid would like to be covered on a voluntary basis at a lower rate of payment, for example, for the purpose of optimising costs. This would certainly not have a good effect on tax receipts as a whole, because we are also talking about the part of social tax pension insurance, not just the part of health insurance. Contributions to the pension fund would also decrease if people were to optimize. In any case, it is a relatively dangerous road. Question 5: 'How many people do you think the Health Insurance Fund has unilaterally terminated the contract with, justifying this by failing to pay the premium due? ' I don't think it has anything to do with this, these are specific figures. Between 2010 and 2011, ten parties defaulted and ten contracts were terminated. A total of voluntary agreements were signed in 2010 in 164 and 212 in 2011. According to the Health Insurance Fund, the most people who have so far concluded voluntary contracts have been those who have extended their residence permit or older people who return to Estonia to live with their children, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U15	Thank you very much, Minister. Questions. Let's start with my colleague Viktor Vasiliev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U16	Thank you. Good minister! Health insurance is a solidarity insurance, which means that everyone, whether with or without income, should be covered jointly and severally. We are talking about jobseekers and the unemployed, but not all unemployed are jobseekers, a person is in the unemployment fund for a certain period of time, falls out, and just gets unemployed. Why is health insurance not solidarity with such an unemployed person?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U17	Thank you. In Estonia, the requirements for the activity of a person are not strict in terms of how often a person interacts with an unemployment fund and, if necessary, participates in labour market measures compared with another country; these requirements are relatively low. If a person wishes to take part in labour market measures and receive health insurance, the law allows a person to receive health insurance cover, i.e. a share of joint and several sickness insurance, if the person is registered with and on account of the unemployment fund. So no one has a prohibition or a restriction on medical coverage. If, for whatever reason, a person is not registered at the unemployment fund, he or she must work for health insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U18	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U19	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! During previous Riigikogu formations we have also talked about this, but almost a year ago we talked about a similar topic here, worrying that very many people do not have health insurance. In the meantime, statistics have again specified figures and these figures are unfortunately still in tens of thousands. You said a year ago that you had a definite plan how, in three or four months' time, now, quite several months ago, this figure could decrease. In your opinion, in the case of so-called voluntary health insurance, or in other cases, such as self-employed persons, would a reduction in the amount of the payment be one measure in order for people to conclude more voluntary insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U20	Thank you for your question. We should take out the verbatim report of this sitting and see exactly what you asked for and what I answered exactly, then it would be correct, and we wouldn't miss each other. But when it comes to the purpose of the voluntary health insurance cover and its place in the Estonian legal area, the aim is to offer the possibility to a person who has exhausted other options, who wishes to receive health insurance cover and who is not, in a classical sense, unemployed. If a person is unemployed, then, of course, there must be a way to help him. To help a person, he or she must be interested in being registered with an unemployment fund. Then, with active measures, we will be able to do everything we can to get people back into the labour market. Let's take a classic example of voluntary health insurance cover: old lady or old gentleman who has returned from abroad to Estonia, who comes here to spend retirement. If we do not have a social security agreement with the country from which it comes, it must itself cover its health insurance costs and the amount of health insurance is based on the average salary. It should be taken into account that a system of solidarity means both contributions and entitlement. It is this side of contributions that is important. I've used the following case as an example. One public official described his case publicly on the columns. When we made up his sickness insurance contributions over twenty years and the health insurance costs paid over two weeks to treat him, the hard fact was that his contributions over twenty years were not sufficient to cover the costs of staying in the intensive care room within two weeks. This is quite a serious argument, which everyone must know and take into account even if there is a health insurance cover: health insurance cover in a joint and several form means that much more services can also be received in return for contributions made on a small salary. When we are talking about voluntary health insurance cover, the voluntary health insurance contribution could be such that the cost of the contribution service would be covered in some part.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U21	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Colleagues want to negotiate. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U22	Madam President! Good Minister and ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that health insurance is established on the basis of the principle of solidarity. We hear what we're saying here on the remote is that all the possibilities are available to the unemployed who are in the unemployment fund. He has the opportunity, for example, to study a flower device that is extremely useful and instructive to him. But he'll be in the unemployment fund as long as he is, then he'll fall out, and he'll still be a no-income man. It is quite clear that treatment has a certain price. Apparently, the health insurance fund has calculated quite precisely what the average insurance cover would cover the medical costs of people with both higher and lower medical needs. But after all, the Health Insurance Fund has full reserves, at least so far. There was still a chance to treat people with lower insurance cover. But there are no more reserves. We all know where they went. People, yes, indeed, have opportunities. Basically, we have employees covered by health insurance, pensioners, defence forces, students, dependants. However, there are still people who are excluded from these categories. For them, it is voluntary health insurance. It is said that people with or without low incomes can suffer from some serious illness and spend a lot of our solidarity sickness insurance money. Indeed, they may suffer from more severe diseases, maybe they are sicker, may God give them health! But there are also private insurance companies, such as ergo. I called and asked Ergos. Clearly, there are more and less people at risk of health. I took a sample offer for myself. I'm already a person with a very high health risk because of my age. Turns out there are three packages depending on age. For me, as someone at very high health risk, the cheapest package would be EUR 700 per year, or about EUR 60 per month. Sixty euros a month! This would be even cheaper than what people would pay in the form of minimum wage health insurance. In fact, this slightly more expensive package, which costs EUR 133 per month and EUR 1600 per year, is not much more than that EUR 103, which is currently calculated on average on salary for voluntary insurance payments, would also cover the cost of aids, glasses and hearing aids, in addition to treatment. A private insurance company can do this for some reason! But if you take this cheapest package with dental insurance, it wouldn't be much more expensive, EUR 70 to 74 per month, but it would also cover the cost of dental care, of course, no expensive prostheses or special services, but the cost of basic dental care. This current standard health insurance does not cover adult people. There you go! In fact, those were the offers I took for myself. But I'm already at that age that the bank, for example, doesn't want to give me a good loan. It says before you turn to the bank, look at your passport, please! But you see, the insurance is totally in. I said, "What about younger people?" Can I have a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U23	It's okay. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U24	Thank you. It turned out that for younger 25-year-olds, all these packages would be three times cheaper. There you go! So it's possible. You know, we have a lot of talk about having a land of equal opportunities: everyone has the chance to go to a television dance show or win a lottery, anyone can be a millionaire, the constitution doesn't ban it. Everyone has a chance to be healthy and happy. Then why aren't we all happy? I don't know. If we are now told that Estonia is a great place in Europe with its achievements, that our sovereign debt is only 5%, i.e. that our country is 95% happy, then we should all be 95% happy, every Estonian citizen should be. Why, then, are they not happy? Why do they write letters to the ambassadors that they cannot pay for health insurance? Why do they complain that they want health insurance? They realize it might be needed, but income doesn't allow it. This thing could be differentiated. Some trouble for this health insurance fund to look at who earns a little more, who earns a little less, and not from health status, but from real income to determine the amount of the tax, as is the case with social benefits. A little more work and the matter could be solved. Then we'd be a little happier, maybe not 100%, but even 96% would be a big achievement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U25	Thank you, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U26	Now everyone has the opportunity to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please wait for my hammer kick! Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U27	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber! I was motivated by the Minister's behavior last Wednesday. I don't name names. In Question Time, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask the Minister questions on an interesting subject. The Minister completely ignored the questions of a member of the Riigikogu, saying that there is no need to start discussing this issue at all, because he already spoke about it last week. Despite the fact that the Ministry has not done this job or, in fact, it has not been done by several ministries. However, I recall that ministers, if they respect themselves, are obliged to answer questions from a member of the Riigikogu, whether they like this member of the Riigikogu and whether they like it or whether they like it. There must be no such arrogance towards the members of the Riigikogu, at least not in our Chamber. This cannot really be said of all ministers, but at least one minister was able to offend us with this behaviour. I have to admit, we couldn't react so quickly to remind him of the rules. We promise that next time we will react more quickly and according to his behaviour. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U28	Thank you very much. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U29	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Totally strange, I haven't made a deal with Esther, but I'm here on the remote for the same reason. I want to start by saying that, of course, there are things that people have different opinions about, and there can't be any other way. One likes Fellini and Tarkovsky, the other prefers to watch Hitchcock or Disney films, one loves the work of Viiralt, Rau or Reindorff, the other is ecstatic about Edgar Valter. It's a personal matter. But there are also values where the estimate can only be one. Two times two is four, it can't be three or five. That's why I'm here today. Last Wednesday, this sentence came from the mouth of this very minister (I do name his name, it was Jürgen Ligi): 'The best defender of Russian culture is, however, the Russian state. Estonia must focus its scarce resources on Estonian culture. That's what the Constitution says. " Those were the words of the minister. We have to admit that the Constitution does not say that. There are such words in the preamble to the Constitution: '... which must ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. 'But there is no word 'only' here that should only guarantee the preservation of Estonian nation and culture through the ages. It's not here. And the Constitution is not written, sorry, not just for Estonians or Estonian citizens; it is written for everyone who lives in the Republic of Estonia. § 49 of the Constitution clearly states: 'Everyone has the right to maintain his or her national identity. ' What does that mean? It means the right to preserve your culture. § 38 of the Constitution states: 'Science and art and their teachings are free. ' What is this art and its teaching, if not one of the elements of culture? The Constitution says that everyone has the right to free self-realization (§ 19). This means that this right also applies in the field of culture. In fact, the Constitution specifically states that everyone is equal before the law, that no one must be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, language or origin. Ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues Tuiksole is a reason for not being satisfied with the way the Minister behaves. I have reason to claim that the Minister either does not know the Constitution or has become a habit of just lying. All right, you can lie or talk nonsense as much as you want, it's your right, and the Constitution says you can't limit it. But you can't interpret the Constitution the way you want at the moment. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. What the honourable Minister of Finance said could be called the last nail of the coffin; that is, in fact, the last nail for integration or integration policy. I have cited the Constitution enough to confirm and justify it. Thank you, honourable Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-19_U30	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 15.44 p.m.
