ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues, good morning! We will begin the first Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. There is no such desire, so we can move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U2	We have one item on today's agenda, which is the debate on the 'Rural Development Report', which is a key issue. Dear colleagues, before we begin this, let me briefly present the procedure for the debate. According to § 153 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Rural Affairs Committee, the Bureau appointed the following procedure for discussing this important national issue. First, a presentation by Professor Rando Värnik, Director of the Estonian University of Life Sciences Institute of Economic and Social Affairs, is scheduled for up to 30 minutes, then questions and answers up to 20 minutes. The presentation by Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder may last up to 15 minutes, questions and answers up to 20 minutes. The Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, Kalvi Tallis, will follow for up to 15 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit two oral questions to the rapporteur within the framework of this item. After that, there are negotiations and, in accordance with our good practice, I propose that representatives of the political groups first appear in the negotiating round. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The Committee on Rural Affairs has also proposed that we extend this session, if necessary, until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. And so that we can work on a specific schedule, we will also proceed with this vote immediately. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Rural Affairs to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 73 members of the Riigikogu and 3 impartial members. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the Director of the Economic and Social Institute of the Estonian University of Life Sciences! Professor Rando Värnik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U4	We'll give you your regards.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U5	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I thank the Riigikogu for the opportunity to give you an overview of the first rural development report. The coverage of rural issues in society has remained unearnedly modest, if not deficient. We tend to forget that it is also necessary to ensure balanced development of regions in practical life for society to function. It is not unknown that the development of regions depends on the number of people and even more on their social capacity to generate new ideas, create businesses and added value. The necessity of the latter has been proven. In the case of weak entrepreneurship, there is insufficient added value and it is not possible to employ people, leading to local residents moving to other areas where they are guaranteed a better quality of life, where the environment is more favourable. In the rural development report, we have focused our attention on analysing the factors affecting the rural population's living environment using the rural development sub-indices. With the help of the different sub-indices, we can compare regions and highlight the problems that need to be solved. Rural areas have traditionally become accustomed to linking agriculture to agriculture. That's not the wrong approach. Over time, however, the importance of agriculture as an employer has diminished. However, we all understand the importance of agriculture as an area of strategic importance when we think about food and export opportunities. By rural population, we mean the inhabitants of the rural municipalities. According to the official definition, rural areas are rural municipalities and small towns with a population of up to 4000 inhabitants. The current approach has been simplified. When defining the land and the city, we are primarily accustomed to having regard to different qualities. On many sides, the border between the land and the city is blurring. This is largely due to people's mobility and communication opportunities. The concept of rural life is extremely broad and multi-dimensional. The land can be spoken of as a geographical area with its inherent social and natural characteristics. The importance of rural areas therefore lies in shared social, cultural and moral values, which have become linked to rural areas and rural areas. The main background for the changes in rural areas is the transition from agrarian society to industrial society, and the mechanisation and automation, which resulted in a large number of workers being released and a growing service sphere. The development of each region depends on the quantity and quality of its human capital. The shrinking and ageing population is one of the most critical problems for Estonia. In addition, the economic and social problems in rural areas have been exacerbated by the uneven regional location of the population. The decline in population, the availability of social services and the presence of entrepreneurship and jobs in the place of residence have been a negative interaction spiral. The lack of employment opportunities and social services has led to the departure of residents, which in turn has worsened the economic competitiveness of the region and made it even more costly to provide services on the ground and reduced their availability, which has forced even more people to leave. The transformation of the structure of employment has been an inevitable development process. The question now is how this change has been adapted. A very large number of inactive people of working age, including those who have not been able to adapt to the changes that have taken place, are a serious social and economic problem in many municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U6	In 2010, four counties lived in Harju County, Lääne-Virumaa, Tartu County, Pärnu County, half of the total population of Estonian rural municipalities, including the population of Harju County, was 23.6% of the rural municipality population and 8.7% of the total Estonian population. The residents of these four counties made up 18.2% of the total Estonian population in 2010. In 2000, they accounted for 15.9%. In 2010, the number of residents of five rural municipalities, Viimsi, Harku, Jõhvi, Rae and Türi exceeded 10000. And they had 13.3% of the total population of rural municipalities. A little more than a third of the population of Estonian rural municipalities lived in rural municipalities with at least 5,000 inhabitants, while the second third lived in rural municipalities with 2000 to 5000 inhabitants. 62% of Estonian rural municipalities had fewer than 2000 inhabitants, while their total population was only 28.7%. After the census, all these data can be refined. The most difficult question is how sustainable rural municipalities with a population below the average are. Population decline has been greater in rural areas with fewer than 2 000 inhabitants, with over 5 000 inhabitants, including in particular those with more than 10,000 inhabitants, the population has increased. In particular, the lower percentage of family age and the higher percentage of older people over 50 in smaller municipalities are problematic. Young people are the most migrating age group, changing their place of residence to receive education and first job, start a family, etc. However, it is important that they return to the country after such a period of travel, stay there and raise their children there. Due to large differences in population and age, the needs and problems of rural municipalities vary. The rapidly growing rural municipalities in the outskirts of cities, with a high proportion of children, young people and family age, must quickly create the necessary infrastructure for them and ensure access to services on the ground. However, small municipalities with a declining and ageing population must be able to maintain minimum infrastructure and develop social and health services for the older population. When planning the integration of rural municipalities with a declining population, account must be taken of the fact that the social and economic needs of their inhabitants remain the same and that existing infrastructure must continue to be maintained and, if necessary, rebuilt. The question, therefore, is what social and economic effects can be gained from this combination. Estonia's rural areas compete not only with Estonian cities but with the whole of Europe as a place of residence. Thus, sustainable development requires, alongside providing an attractive living environment, economic and social services that are able to compete with opportunities abroad. In addition to reducing the quantity of human capital, the quality of it is a problem which determines the competitiveness of different regions as well as of Estonia as a whole. Although the proportion of people with tertiary education has increased in both urban and rural areas, the average level of education of the workforce in rural settlements is significantly lower due to the high proportion of people with a lower level of education or education. Given that the fastest-growing and better-paid jobs in the service sector require good education, access to refresher and retraining is one of the factors that need attention. The planning of rural development requires regional policy decisions that take into account the different composition and dynamics of the population of rural municipalities and the resulting differences in the structure of services. Various measures must be taken to meet different needs with the aim that a person's socio-economic coping is possible anywhere in Estonia. Therefore, it is important to take two important factors into account when dealing with rural development in order to identify both wishes and opportunities to live in the countryside. The desire to live on land depends on the services available there, the quality of the natural environment and the social network, which makes the rural area a pleasant living environment. The possibility of living on land depends on whether it is possible to earn a living, to receive income from activities related to the land as a resource, or to any other diverse activity that is not directly related to the land. In order to analyse Estonia's regions, it should not be based solely on population density and population density. The proximity of some attraction centres, especially Tallinn, is an important factor. We have regions where rural activities are disappearing either as a result of excessive urbanisation or as a result of peripheralisation. It is therefore important to take into account factors other than population density that characterise either urban or painting lifestyles. An example is the share of farms and arable land in the area. As a result, Estonian regions can be characterised by a larger number of characteristics, which should reflect their rural nature more accurately. The following is a description of the Estonian typology clusters. The first cluster of rural municipalities, strong rural municipalities, with a high degree of association with the urban centre as well as the share of arable land. The fourth cluster of rural municipalities, where low population density is accompanied by a large share of agriculture and relatively low incomes. The fifth cluster of rural municipalities, which is under pressure, is accompanied by a low location index and a relatively low level of income. The sixth cluster of rural municipalities, where the rural way of life is under pressure, is accompanied by a relatively low level of income. Another cluster of urban municipalities, where the influence of the urban centre and the small share of agriculture are important. The third cluster is rather urban municipalities, where urbanisation is mostly influenced by the existence of a large centre and the relatively small share of agriculture. Five sub-indices of rural development have been drawn up for the evaluation of rural development. When analysing the partial index of the location, it can be said that its size is very much influenced by the existence of an urban centre. The site component index is the highest in rural municipalities, which are located in the immediate vicinity of Tallinn. Only a small group of municipalities are characterised by a very high location sub-index, and also a very low location sub-index is characterised by only a small group of municipalities. Municipalities of very low location value are mostly those that are far from the most important urban centres. Most of the time, it is south-eastern Estonia and islands. The installation component index is largely linked to factors that cannot be changed or whose modification relates to very long-term decisions. This sub-index thus shows rather the level of development and the possibilities for development and less short-term changes in the level of development. In the case of the population sub-indice, the municipalities where demographic trends are conducive to development are at the forefront. This part-index is also higher in the rural municipalities of Tallinn. In most cases, this group involves rural municipalities with relatively low shares of older people and a relatively low labour market pressure index. Both the relative abundance of young people and the low labour market pressure index point to an important development advantage in the future compared to rural areas where the corresponding figures are poorer. The municipalities at the top of this ranking also emerge as migratory destinations. The rural municipalities at the second extreme of the subpopulation sub-index are aging rural municipalities. In these cases, the lack of labour potential needed to ensure further development has become a critical factor. The Prosperity Index is higher in rural municipalities where economic well-being is higher. In this respect, too, the best indicators are found in the rural municipalities near Tallinn. Since, apart from the size of the income, the indicator is the change in income over time, this sub-indice estimates the number of rural municipalities in which income growth has been faster. Municipalities representing the second extreme of the welfare sub-index, with relatively high unemployment associated with low income levels. In most cases, income growth in these municipalities has not been very rapid compared to other municipalities either. The enterprise sub-indice reflects the development of local entrepreneurship. Most jobs are created today in large cities, but local entrepreneurship and jobs are extremely important for the development of regions near home. If they do not exist, people will move to where they can work, and certain regions will begin to empty. The share index of land use shows in which municipalities the share of traditional rural activities is higher. In addition to food production, the role of agriculture as a provider of public goods is emphasised when it comes to factors that characterise development. This is therefore a question of land use in a broader sense. An environment that is maintained as a public good as a result of agricultural activity is characterised by a higher level of development, as it creates a better living environment for local people and also provides an opportunity, for example, to develop tourism and diversify entrepreneurship. The size of forest land per capita refers to the potential of the forest industry in the field. The cluster analysis carried out on the basis of the sub-indices of rural development can distinguish between four groups of municipalities. The first cluster consists of 78 municipalities. They have all sub-indices of medium size, so they are municipalities at an average level of development. A cluster of municipalities with an average level of development is characterised by a relatively low land use share index compared to the averages of all municipalities. The second cluster of rural municipalities, which is relatively lagging behind, comprises 39 rural municipalities. They have the lowest share index of location, population and well-being. The share index for business development and land use is also relatively low. These are municipalities where rural development is at risk and the relative backwardness has become critical, so that the long-term sustainability of these municipalities is at issue. The very low location sub-index is also not conducive to the development of these municipalities, as it is either very difficult or impossible to change the factors involved. These municipalities therefore lack both location and demographic advantage. In the short term, the level of development is most affected by the development of entrepreneurship and the level of economic well-being. In these sub-indices, the municipalities belonging to a cluster of rural municipalities with a relative backwardness are also below the average level of all rural municipalities. The third cluster consists of pressured municipalities that differ in terms of the lowest business sub-indice and the highest land use sub-indice. These are pressured municipalities, where the role of traditional rural activities is important, but they are accompanied by relatively low income levels. In the case of pressured rural municipalities, the main objective is to diversify business within the framework of maintaining rural activities, which allows for increased opportunities for income on the territory of the rural municipality. The fourth cluster of urban municipalities consists of rural municipalities in the vicinity of Tallinn and the municipalities of Ülenurme and Jõhvi. In these municipalities, the share index for land use is the highest and the main issue is maintaining rurality. It is therefore questionable whether these municipalities can be dealt with in the future in the rural context. Cities play an important role in securing jobs for the vast majority of rural population. Nearly 3/4 of the rural settlements employ more people at urban registered employers than at employers in the same country. The most typical rural settlement in Estonia employs a little more than half of those who work in the city. 6% of Estonian rural settlements are those where all residents work for a registered employer in the city. While 61% of all urban residents have an employer in the same settlement, this figure is only 12% for rural settlements. In the same county, the employer is 74% of the employees. Thus, the working relationship between the land and the city is very strong. Rural and rural populations are increasingly dependent on urban work. The ability of rural employers to offer jobs to urban residents is smaller, and it is not so important for cities. Also, the employer's placement in the same municipality means, on average, only 70% of the income of a rural worker compared to the income of people who work outside the municipality of residence. The Estonian education system offers the vast majority of rural people good opportunities to obtain near-home education from early childhood education to tertiary school. At least 70% of the children of the rural fields attend a rural school. The importance of urban centres is growing exponentially in upper secondary school. More than half of the countries have no upper secondary school, and even if there is one, a large part of the upper secondary school education offered in the rural youth city prefers. Similar to the working relationship between the country and the city, the nature of the academic links in Estonia varies considerably between regions. Due to the territorial nature of the vocational and higher education systems, the majority of rural youth are forced to leave their home for professional education. In higher education, this also means linking itself to a city or to another country. As a result of optimising the upper secondary school network initiated by the state, obtaining upper secondary school education for the majority of rural youths will mean studying in the city. Thus, the country and city in Estonia are closely interwoven as a place of work and education, and the inhabitants of rural areas depend to a very large extent on the cities. In order to be competitive in today's society in terms of skills and knowledge, young people usually need to learn to move to the city. At the same time, the first stages of the education system, as well as a large number of other socio-economic and physical ties, strongly connect families with the countryside, their settlement and the rural municipality. In order to increase the administrative capacity of rural municipalities and to better involve the administrative competence of urban communities in the development of rural areas, it is necessary to legally regulate cooperation between local authorities, define areas of compulsory cooperation, lay down organisational forms of cooperation and the principles of participation of urban and rural municipalities in cooperation organisations. In cooperation, it is also possible to overcome the often specific limits of administrative capacity for rural municipalities, which are the result of local budgets and other resources. As the work and learning of rural populations are increasingly linked to cities, it is necessary to develop transport systems in order to keep people on the ground, in particular to ensure good mobility. In Estonia's conditions, the key issue is strengthening the network of hard-coated roads, which is one of the main prerequisites for the development of rural settlements. This is particularly true of urban immigration. The availability of power lines and data transmission facilities is also important. In the last 20 years, Estonian agriculture has undergone a period of rapid decline as well as relatively rapid growth. The same applies to our neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania. In the context of the food crisis and the economic crisis in recent years, the growth rate of the various indicators that characterise the development of the agricultural sector has slowed down. Thus, Estonia's agriculture has reached a more stable stage of development. However, at this stage, the agricultural sector is facing new and more complex challenges. There is an increasing need to contribute to increasing productivity and added value, which will ensure the competitiveness of Estonian agriculture and the food sector in international markets, in a situation where the world's population is growing, the area of agricultural land is limited, and climate change is causing regional production problems and uncertainty. Estonia is characterised by a dual structure of farmers: a relatively large number of small producers use a relatively small proportion of agricultural land and a relatively small number of large producers use most of agricultural land. As a result, the inequality in the use of agricultural land in Estonia is relatively high. In Latvia and Lithuania, land-use inequality between different producers is slightly lower and in Finland it is considerably lower. However, this high level of inequality poses difficulties in developing cooperation between producers of different sizes. This makes it difficult to agree on cross-sectoral development goals, as producers of different sizes have different development needs. Consideration should therefore be given to planning different development policies for larger and smaller producers. Smaller households are unlikely to compete with large producers in the mass production of cereals, oil crops and milk. In these areas, large manufacturers have renewed their technology and have a competitive advantage. Smaller farmers therefore need to find areas where they have advantages compared to large farmers. Such areas could be those where Estonia currently has a net importer and the monetary value of production per hectare of agricultural land is higher. These areas could include fruit and vegetables, nurseries, forest plants. In order to ensure that the quantities of goods offered by small producers are also interested in retail chains, they should coordinate both the production and marketing of their goods through joint action. The creation of regional or quality brands is also one of the options for differentiation. Following the reorganisation of the agricultural sector, the investment capacity of farmers decreased considerably, and in the 1990s a large investment gap arose in the sector. However, after joining the European Union, the agricultural sector started with the possibility to use investment grants and loans and leases as a kind of investment boom, and agriculture invested more on average per employee than in the economy as a whole. This gives rise to the assumption that, after some delay, Estonian agricultural production will also grow as a result of large investments. Due to the agar investment, Estonian farmers have relatively high liabilities to banks and leasing companies. As fluctuations in agricultural prices have increased, there is also an increased risk that, at a time of low prices, businesses will not be able to meet their obligations. Investments will certainly continue to be important to increase the competitiveness of Estonian agriculture. However, it should be borne in mind that no excessive commitments are made and that investment is accompanied by an increase in productivity and also in production volumes. Estonia is a country exporting dairy products, live animals, cereals and oil seeds. In order for Estonian farmers to be competitive with their goods on the world market, they need to increase their productivity. With the average milk production of the cow, Estonia is high in comparison with the countries of the European Union, but grain yields are far from the average in the European Union and are also below the Latvian, Lithuanian and Finnish figures. What has been bad has been that our farmers have not been treated equally with others when paying direct payments. The aid per hectare varies by number of times. However, high milking and cereal yield must not be set as an end in itself. Very carefully calculate how expensive the additional milk or cereal kilos are to develop. It is therefore important to contribute to research and advice to help increase farmers' productivity, also taking into account the positive and negative economic aspects that this entails. Milk production in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia today does not even reach 60% of the level of the 1990s. Milk production has decreased least in Estonia, and most of all in Latvia. In Lithuania, milk production has decreased by about 10% in recent years. All of this has increased competition between the dairy industry in the Baltic States in obtaining raw milk. Over 10% of milk produced in Estonia has been processed in Latvia and Lithuania in recent years. Of course, from the point of view of farmers, there is no difference as to whether the milk is processed here or there, but from the point of view of Estonia's economic development, it would be much more useful if the raw materials produced in Estonia were worthy in Estonia. This is why Estonia's dairy industry needs a strategy in its own right. One very important challenge in the Estonian agricultural sector is the so-called generation problem. Many producers have reached a point where they would like to transfer their production facility over the next ten years. The number of agricultural holdings in Estonia continues to decline faster than in the so-called old and stable European Union countries. The reduction in the number of agricultural holdings is not a problem in itself. If farmers move to other sectors of the economy or retire, this step can be seen as smooth from their point of view and does not directly involve social problems. However, given the land-use inequality characteristic of Estonian agriculture, we have to face an important question as to whether anyone will take over the production facilities of these quitters and, if so, who will. Will the quitters be able to grow their own business by small and medium-sized producers, or will this land be used by large producers? In the first case, land-use inequality would decrease, in the second case it would increase. The reduction of inequalities would be better, as it would contribute to the agreement and cooperation of cross-sectoral development goals. Finally. The purpose of the rural development report is to give an overview of rural areas in Estonia. The most important values in each country are the people, and they depend on the creation of new values and the development of the country as a whole. This is why the countryside's environment, their desires and their opportunities are very important. The painting must be governed by conditions that guarantee satisfaction. The range of rural issues is very broad. In order to ensure the development of rural activities, i.e. agriculture, more attention needs to be paid to the emergence of real joint action throughout the food chain. In a situation where farmers are price takers in most cases and price designers for the whole other food chain, more attention needs to be paid to the development of food prices and the distribution of added value in the chain. Nationally, there is a need to increase measures to support joint action between producers and processors for investment and for setting and achieving common objectives. And now some conclusions. More attention needs to be paid to the development needs of the different regions when targeting rural development at national level. The distance from the centres can be a determining factor in the development of the region. As the distance increases, the costs increase, and more time is needed to provide goods and services in the region. The existence and quality of a road network is essential to ensure accessibility for regions and the capacity of regions to remain in the market for services and products. We consider it important that, in the organisation and development of roads and other infrastructure elements, attention is given in parallel to the creation and promotion of business opportunities in rural areas. More efforts must be made to improve the living conditions of young people and family-aged people so that they would like to return to their homes after their studies, stay there and start their own families there. In order to recall young people to rural areas, guidance with the benefits offered should be considered. Examples include scholarships and the exemption from admission to formal training. Second conclusion: in Estonia as a whole, a situation should be ensured in rural areas where the region would be attractive both as a living environment and as a workplace. Different regions have different development prerequisites. The general objective is to continue the rural way of life and to slow down the concentration of people in the centres. The scope of regional programmes needs to be considered. One of the objectives of regional programmes must be to maintain cultural historical links and transfer from one generation to another, to take account of regional differences in the activation and development of entrepreneurship. Third conclusion: the large fluctuations in wages and the possibility of incomes result in people moving towards the main centres. In order to address the pay gap, it is necessary to encourage the creation of enterprises in rural areas so that traditional rural activities are not lost and environmental risks are not involved. The rural challenge is to ensure high-quality and accessible services for people in a reasonable time. If the level of income in the country is inevitably lower than in the city, the quality of the living environment and its favourable living arrangements will become particularly important for people. Older people are part of the community and need to be given more attention. Measures to increase the entrepreneurial spirit of the elderly are needed to enable them to feel as a full member of society and, if health permits, to remain active. Many older people, for historical reasons, are involved in their residence in the country and would like to be active there in the future. In order for Estonia to develop successfully, rural areas must be competitive both in terms of the quantity and quality of their human capital. In more than half of the municipalities, the number of inhabitants has fallen by more than 10% over a period of ten years, and slowing down the number of inhabitants is a serious challenge for most municipalities. It will be decisive when an attractive living environment can be provided by a region and how well to meet the service needs of people's age. In rural development, it is an important issue where service providers are concentrated: whether most of them remain in urban areas and rural areas, or whether services are lost or accessible and of good quality, regardless of population density. This is an important factor in the development of the living environment. It is important for rural people to be able to travel through the roads regardless of the season, access to banking, postal and medical services. It is also important to consider how to ensure access to food and social services on land, given that there are very many old people living there. People's survival and opportunities should not depend on their place of birth and place of residence. Resources guaranteeing development opportunities. A framework must be established to encourage cooperation at regional level, priority must be given to the development of cooperation networks that increase real entrepreneurship. Finally, rural development is crucial not only for the country but also for the city. In order to support rural development, it is necessary not only to support rural development programmes but also to use other financial sources and programmes. In the context of rural development in Estonia, it is reasonable to develop a variety of entrepreneurship. Preferred development in one area is not feasible in the long term. Therefore, do we have an agreement on the question of whether we want Estonia to continue to live in the country? If we want to, we need to make significantly more choices that make living on land possible and desirable. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U7	Dear waitress, I apologize to you. Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall! There's too much noise in the hall. Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U8	Dear Professor, thank you. You have questions too. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U9	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, too, Mr Professor, for a meaningful and thorough presentation. The first conclusion rightly refers to the fact that the distance of the centre must be measured not only by kilometres but also by time and money. Measurement of distance in time and money for islands is particularly important. How do the authors of the rural development report assess the current island policy of the Estonian state? Has this been enough to smooth out the peculiarities of insularity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U10	Thank you for your question. My personal opinion is, and it is also demonstrated by the figures, that it is absolutely necessary to make this policy even more effective. So far, this has not been enough to solve all the problems arising from the location. As I said in my report, regional differences should be taken more into account. In a small Estonian country too, differentiation should be increased in the design of various policies if we want the regions to develop more. Of course, any differentiation in politics is more costly, but it is certainly very necessary, because the possibility of adding value is greater in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U11	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U12	Dear waitress, As you mentioned in your report, as a result of the reform of the upper secondary school proposed by the Ministry of Education, 40% of rural people still receiving upper secondary school education in their municipality of residence or neighbouring municipality should also move to the city. This percentage is, of course, even higher in most counties, as Pärnu, Tartu and Tallinn also play a role in this 40%. You failed to assess this as a matter of fact. How would you appreciate it, however, given the same purpose you set for life on earth to continue? How could the reform proposed by the Ministry of Education, which requires the existence of three parallel classes at upper secondary school level, have an impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U13	Thank you for your question. I can say in this way that we did not make it this far to analyse concrete political initiatives and their impact. That's a different subject. However, we see a tendency that, along with taking upper secondary school education away from the country, not only children are likely to move, but adults will also move. It's already started. The withdrawal of this social quality from the regions is undoubtedly a problem. But I'm sure this issue will require further investigation. Today I do not have an exhaustive answer to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U14	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U15	Thank you. Dear waitress, As I understand it, the aim of the rural development report was to give an overview of rural areas in Estonia and to find out how to increase the satisfaction of the rural population and reduce the exit from rural areas. Is it possible from your work that administrative reform in our country is necessary, or is there reason to believe that it does not really matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U16	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U17	Thank you for your question. My personal position on administrative reform is that the administrative reform itself will not solve anything. The question is that we need to argue and think about what functions the local government should have and which central government should have. Everyone living in a country should receive the services that their fundamental rights provide for them, regardless of their place of residence. I think the issue of administrative reform has been overexploited. However, we should talk about the content of the matter, how we want to design service centres and where it is optimal to provide one or the other service. When we prepared our report, we were really just trying to highlight problems and think about what could be changed and how. Today, too, we do not have definite solutions. However, for all reports, it is important to point out the issues that need to be resolved so that people start to think more seriously about these issues. Perhaps there is already a consensus on this in the decisions, too, by the committees that are in the process of resolving one issue or another. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Professor, In your report, you also propose possible solutions to one of the biggest problems of the migration of people to cities and settlements around the city, how local authorities and state authorities should shape their policies. But from a completely different angle, on the opinion of Postimees yesterday, the study manager of the study company Factum & Ariko offers a solution. A quote from his pen: 'Maybe it would be useful to base the entire regional policy, administrative reform, education reform and other reforms and development plans on a comprehensive economic geography picture and to set up a support programme to help people relocate to more viable centres. " How do you feel about such a call?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U19	I also interviewed Estonian Radio about this article published yesterday. My opinion is that this is an extremely short-sighted article, precisely in the sense that it is not the solution. We may also think the other way around: that we are taking the money that we could spend to support the settlement of the city from the country, and we are using it to settle people from the city into the country. Yes, there are points of view in this article that must be accepted. There are now very many people on Earth who are farmers, while some people are interested in rural life as idyllic. How many will be left in the future? However, I think that we should not accept the emptying of the regions. And it certainly isn't the solution if we pick up and do something about moving people to the city. Once again: jobs, the development of entrepreneurship, the creation of export opportunities, these are things that need to be dealt with. If you look at other countries, there are examples that entrepreneurship can be developed in rural areas, including those with the added value of exports.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U20	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U21	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. Did I understand your report and your answers correctly when I concluded that your team, too, does not consider it reasonable for the Regional Minister to dream that all problems will be solved if each county is made up of one municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U22	I could say that there are many issues that need to be considered very thoroughly first and to think about how functions will be distributed: what power and what tasks will remain at the local government level. When I place myself in the role of a citizen, I often ask why the local government level does not engage in the development of entrepreneurship in the region. In fact, it turns out that the municipality should not be dealing directly with this. The question now is that perhaps we need to rethink here, perhaps at the local government level, the task should be to promote the development of entrepreneurship in the region. But there are other issues that need to be considered well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U23	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Professor! Thank you and your team for the work done. That's my question. A number of aspects of entrepreneurship are known to be linked to rural areas, and one of these aspects is agricultural land use. How do you assess the current state of agriculture in Estonia and what is your view of our agricultural perspectives in the context of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U25	My opinion is what the report says: Estonia's agriculture certainly has great potential. But in this area, too, strategic choices need to be made, as I said. Like other areas, agriculture needs its own strategy. We need to get to the point that we agree on how much we produce, who produce, how to increase added value, how to get to exports, the whole chain should be better resolved. But agriculture is certainly one of those areas with potential. If we look to the future, if we consider that food demand is actually increasing, then that means that we are actually in a unique position. Fortunately, we in Estonia have not had too many climate problems and the resulting losses. So if you look at this development scenario, I think that Estonia is definitely in a good position. Of course, we also have our weaknesses, our yields are somewhat lower than in other countries of the European Union, etc. There are, and certainly, the most important strategic approach to solving these problems and the direction that more export orientation is needed. Joint action is certainly one of the issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U26	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for your presentation and for your excellent work. I have this question: do you think that the curricula of Estonian universities and their development will ensure sufficient competitiveness of the Estonian food industry in the foreign market? And what kind of perspective do you see here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U28	I think all our universities are very open to the principle that a university needs to do the work that is necessary for society. This means that quality jumps have already taken place in all universities and how to provide more services to society. There are certainly shortcomings, and this is certainly purely due to the fact that the Estonian state has had little money at some time to develop science and select it under limited resource conditions, which we should still develop more. I say this: if you take the Estonian University of Life Sciences, we have a very great potential that has already been applied, but surely we could develop some activities much more in order to offer more solutions for the development of the agricultural sector and, as I said, with it, for the cooperation of the advisory services to increase the added value of production. So there is definitely readiness, and I think there is potential. I do not think that a farmer should go abroad for advice; it is still the universities of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U29	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U30	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you for your thorough presentation. I am convinced that one of the key issues of rural living is jobs. As you rightly said, rural life is not just agriculture and forestry, although it is still very important and now also competitive and exporting sectors. The tourism sector is also developing, helping to create jobs. Can you tell us what other areas of entrepreneurship could be pursued in rural areas, apart from those mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U31	Having dealt with the economics of the rural economy myself and teaching it at master's level, I know that we are looking at different options. I'd say the key word for the rural economy is'multifunctional'. This means that there are different opportunities both in the agricultural sector and in other rural businesses. At the same time, I would stress that these opportunities should be sought from the resources of the region. There's something unique in every area, it just needs to be tracked down. As I said, resources enabling the region to develop should be mapped out. It should take and look at what could have a positive impact on the region and how to shape local entrepreneurship so that the available resources can be exploited. Multifunctional entrepreneurship, multifunctional agriculture is a theme. Similarly, there are various opportunities for the development of small food industries, small food chains, which, fortunately, are now on the move. There are opportunities! Rather, it is important that people have more good ideas. I think the lack of ideas may be the biggest problem. Many ideas have been implemented, but that is not enough. And there are certainly good ideas in other parts of the world, and even within the framework of the Leader programme it is possible to go abroad and explore what has been done. There are opportunities!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U32	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U33	Thank you. Thank you very much for a good report and also for the report you have prepared. The report identifies the Rural Development Index as one of the most important indicators, which in turn consists of several sub-indices. Is this methodology in any way comparable to the methodology of similar studies in other countries, and if so, where are we standing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U34	I must say that we tried to use the OECD methodology, the methodology of other countries in the European Union. The question is exactly what we want to describe. I think that each country has its own structure of entrepreneurship and activities. We created this methodology ourselves and it is unique in that sense. Latvians and Finns have also been interested in this methodology. Unfortunately, we cannot say that we can compare ourselves directly with someone else in this methodology, but generally these subindices are available in all national statistics. I think, in principle, it is possible to do so. And actually, it is also the case that we need to carry out analyses on the basis of the data that is available to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U35	Treasure Heinvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I, too, thank you very much for a very meaningful and good presentation. The Land Reform Act was passed in 1991. As one of the important reforms, the land reform has laid the foundations for a change in private property as a social formation. How do you assess the fundamental differences between Soviet rural and rural life today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U37	Thank you, good question! This is certainly an issue that needs a more precise and broader debate. But basically, what was before? When there was a plan economy, it was easy to plan production, it was easy to plan marketing. The situation has now changed dramatically, we are operating under market conditions and we need to be competitive. These are two completely different systems. With regard to land reform, the issue was resolved in such a way that some of the property and land went to some, some to others. That's how a lot of countries were articulated. Which system is more correct, it is already a question for historians. We simply see that Estonia has developed a situation where former small farms are not very happy. While we are looking at global space and global business, agricultural production, it must be acknowledged that small farms would have found it very difficult to compete on the global food market. My message, however, is that we need both smaller and larger 'diversity' is the key word.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U38	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you very much for presenting meticulous research. But I've got a little technical question. On one of the slides, the subindices are summed up in one picture. And from here I can see that the rural areas with relative backwards are at least five times smaller on the population vector than the rest. But if you look at the entrepreneurship vector, here they are even better than the pressured municipalities and very close to the average level of development of the rural municipalities. Is it an anomaly or how to explain that the rural municipalities that are lagging behind are the best entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U40	Thank you. The same question was asked by a man living in one of the areas of Saaremaa. In fact, if you look at these same sub-indices, it should be based on the indicators of the underlying sub-indices that are taken into account here. This could be a feeling of an anomaly. As far as these sub-indices are concerned and the data they take into account, we have taken into account, in the case of entrepreneurship, precisely larger companies, not micro-enterprises, in order to reflect the development of a business with potential. And this may give rise to the view that there may be more of these businesses in a certain region for a single resident. The question is the number of inhabitants and the number of larger companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U41	Rein Aidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would also like to thank you for both the presentation and the review of rural development. But we still have to move on forcefully from here. After all, the dilemmas remain: on the one hand, the efficiency of agricultural production, on the other hand, employment in the country, related or unrelated to it, as well as the same administrative system, i.e. the quality of services in the public domain, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the involvement of local residents, i.e. their participation in decision-making. On these axes you always have to look for a balance. Where is the actual place of public intervention now? And how forcefully should the state intervene? Do we have to sense it at any moment? I guess we're gonna have to sense it, but when is the right time to do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U43	Perhaps neutral scientists, experts, could be involved in such interventions in order to create an atmosphere where things are constructively negotiated and perhaps even the worst solutions are thought through together. But yes, it is a subject that must definitely be taken forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U44	Thank you very much, Professor, for your presentation and your answers. I now ask the Minister of Agriculture for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are discussing the present and the future of rural life today. If you start a little further away, it can be said that the cause of global urbanization has been the rapid growth of the population, especially in the last century. Compared to the number of rural and urban inhabitants, we must admit that we have just exceeded the so-called equator: the number of urban inhabitants in the world for the first time exceeded the number of rural inhabitants and scientists' forecasts are one-way; the number of rural inhabitants is also starting to decline in absolute numbers. This development is characteristic of the world in addition to Estonia. Based on European experience, we can argue that regardless of the rural, regional and agricultural policies and the organisation of the state, the number of rural inhabitants across Europe is decreasing. The authors of the Estonian rural development report, which was first completed, are researchers of the Estonian University of Life Sciences and OÜ Geomedia, deserve recognition. I hope that the preparation of the rural development report will become a broader one in the future, a regional development report and it will be a regular one, which will allow a time series to compare changes in society. Of course, it is not possible to address all the issues in the report, but it is not justified to exclude such important issues as the capacity of local authorities, education, health, trade and forestry. At the same time, a very large part of the report's volume is devoted to an analysis of the theoretical foundations of rural and rural definitions, which in itself is a grateful reading, but, as the authors have also admitted, very difficult to define and agree. And that's how it's necessary? For centuries, there was a sign of equality between rural and agricultural. This meant that all rural development depended on agricultural development. The situation has changed dramatically in recent decades. Estonian agriculture has also been characterised by major changes over the last 20 years. Due to changes in the regime, the reform of land, property and agriculture and the loss of foreign markets, Estonian agriculture survived a difficult transition in the nineties of the last century. To date, Estonian agriculture has reached a new stage in its development, characterised by the development of fast industrial agriculture, i.e. large-scale production, and polarisation into large-scale and small-scale producers. The potential of Estonian agriculture is characterised by the fact that, for example, in 2010, agriculture accounted for 2% of gross domestic product, but almost 10% of total exports of goods. Thus, agriculture is like a balm to balance our country's balance of payments, the development of diverse and sustainable agriculture enriches Estonia's rural life. The key issue of Estonian agricultural policy is developing our export potential and striking a balance between large industrial production aimed at intensive production and export and traditional family farms close to nature. Estonia's rural area needs both, and development opportunities need to be created for both. After entering the European Union and thanks to the support of the common agricultural policy, Estonia's agriculture is characterised by rapid technological development and the cultivation of land remaining in fodder. Agricultural land in Estonia is growing at a rate of 10000 hectares per year since 2004. These are positive developments. As a result of all this, the efficiency of Estonian agriculture and the quality of production have increased considerably, but the number of farmers and the number of people working in agriculture has decreased rapidly and repeatedly. In 20 years, the number of people employed in Estonian agriculture has fallen more than seven times, and more than 110000 jobs have disappeared. This is where we come to the biggest problem in Estonia's rural area, which is that few jobs are so important not even for pharmacies and post offices, not even for public transport and school education in the countryside, but for jobs, jobs and jobs again. The availability of jobs is the basis for the development of any region. By guaranteeing jobs, we will reduce poverty and create new opportunities for development. Jobs are the key to rural development. Traditional rural sectors, such as agriculture, fisheries and forestry, have not replaced the jobs that have fallen equally. This is due not to Mart Laar, but to the tractor in a transferred sense, i.e. technological and technological developments, which have replaced hard physical work on land. In addition, agriculture, fisheries and forestry are highly male-centred industries, and in our changed family model and social division, women are no longer left to farm only crafts and children. It is therefore the need for women to leave the country more quickly, and so they do, often to obtain better education, which is not bad in itself. However, gender differences in education and employment are not today's main issue, although they also concern rural areas. Agriculture can save the Estonian people, but not Estonian rural areas. Agriculture, fisheries and forestry are still important economic sectors and remain strategic areas in terms of food production, environmental protection and landscape design, but their significance has changed permanently in the key to rural development. The key to rural development in Estonia is not to look for agriculture, but to create higher qualifications and better jobs outside agriculture. You should not dream of the time when most people in Estonia are self-employed or self-employed. Most people with higher education also remain employees. There is a great advantage for cities. In particular, the private sector creates businesses in larger cities or their immediate vicinity. Public authorities are almost exclusively in cities. I therefore believe that the key to rural development is located in cities, especially in small towns and county centres in Estonia. As Viljandi County Elder, I asked Jaak Allik, Minister of Culture in 1997, why the centre for the development of folk culture must be located on the edge of Lasnamäe in Tallinn, when the cultural academy is located in Viljandi and, to date, the centre of folk music is located. If the forces were united in Viljandi, culture would win and rural and regional policy would win. There are dozens of untapped opportunities in Estonia, but their introduction requires a breakthrough in our thinking and a serious struggle with an increasingly capital-centred official body. I am thinking not of the placement of ministries but of other public agencies, inspections and other institutions in county towns. The installation of moderately large and independent public authorities in county towns is a good solution and tested solution in many countries. This will bring jobs to the counties, diversify the local labour market and create the prerequisites for young people and educated people to live in the countryside. The division of rural areas into municipalities or small towns as independent municipalities is outdated and impractical. Today, it is reasonable to consider the region as a whole, where the centre, together with the hinterland, forms a whole. One of the problems of Estonian rural policy is that we have municipalities and cities as municipalities and mostly four virtual districts to implement official policy, but we do not have administrative territorial units in implementing rural and regional policy. Estonia's counties are not municipalities and county governments are no longer a viable public policy force. This is not the case with local governments. We have reached a situation where, besides the map of parish Estonia, the map of county Estonia can also be taken to the museum. In Estonia, we implement large-scale rural promotion measures that extend to scattered settlements. In addition, we develop Tallinn and Tartu as centres and some problem areas such as Setumaa, Ida-Virumaa, islands, etc. But in fact, we need more and more comprehensive policies aimed at counties, including county cities. County towns are certainly part of rural areas in Estonia's circumstances. The role of rural towns as economic, service, leisure and administrative centres has decreased. The development of counties by strengthening county towns should be the cornerstone of Estonian rural policy. The counties are optimal territorial management units in Estonia, which as municipalities would be able to balance central authority. A number of tasks could also be transferred to them by the State. Of course, we would not be able to design regional governments entirely based on the current boundaries and number of counties. But the current development of the local government system has taken place in contrast to the practical needs of the person and the actual movement. We have strengthened municipalities on the level of rural municipalities and small towns, while people's lives are increasingly less rural and urban and increasingly county-centred. To develop scattered settlements, leaving the centres in the background, means that we have spent a lot of energy on repairing the train, which has been necessary, but we have forgotten the locomotive. And now we wonder why the train isn't moving. A strong central authority and 226 local authorities are centralized national models. It does not make sense for such small municipalities to carry out regional tasks and to provide regional services, but it does not make sense for them to be entrusted with national tasks. Small and large municipalities also exist elsewhere in Europe. But with such a high degree of competence and wide range of tasks, there are no local governments with as small a population as there are elsewhere in Estonia. Too small municipalities also pose a threat to local democracy. There is a lack of opportunities and a sufficient number of people who would be an alternative to existing power. This situation is a favourable ground for corporate and family powers. The policy of small municipalities, where each municipality must have a better school, gym, swimming pool, cultural house, kindergarten, stadium, etc. as a neighbour, is disastrous because only the best will survive in the absence of children and taxpayers. If that is the way most municipalities think about promoting local life, after all, it is their task and their duty under the law, it is to live beyond the means by which we contribute to the European debt crisis. This race would be brought to an end by an administrative reform, which should result in a single-level municipality at the level of the county, where the municipalities are given direct tax policy interest through income from entrepreneurship. Administrative reform does not solve all rural problems, but it is certainly an important prerequisite for solving problems and managing them as we can. One powerful step in the development of rural policy would certainly be to establish a standard for public services. This requires a definition of what public services are and under what conditions they should be available to citizens, regardless of where a person lives, analogous to ambulance and rescue services, for which we have set a time or distance for the provision of a service. So far, we have been reorganizing the work of public authorities and local authorities on the basis of the principle of austerity of public money, which results mostly in centralising the provision of power and services, but in increasing the cost of money and time for people living in the countryside. This principle can be summed up by a sentence: cheaper for the state, more expensive for the citizen. Setting a standard for public services would prevent such developments and would force the country and municipalities to take greater account of the needs and opportunities of citizens. If we do not want to place public authorities in county cities and otherwise do not know how to create jobs in rural areas, we cannot define public services and we do not implement administrative reform, then there is another relatively foolproof and non-mistakeable opportunity for rural development. It is an infrastructure development: electricity, roads and the internet. These are investments that are necessary for the development of different sectors and regions. Infrastructure is a prerequisite for new jobs as well as for new residents, as well as for companies and residents already operating there. Although, yes, a drop of tar could also drip into this honey pot, because from European experience it can be said that the better the power supply, smoother the roads and faster the internet, the faster people leave the country, rather than the other way around. The development of information technology has enabled the centralisation of accounting, decision-making and management processes, resulting in higher-skilled and better-paid jobs being concentrated in centres. Banks started with this optimisation in Estonia, and now it has been implemented by most national authorities. This leaves the country with lower skilled and less responsible jobs with lower wages. New remote work places in the countryside are perhaps created in place of one to two ten disappearing jobs. Finally, a little bit of the idea of setting up the Ministry of Rural Economy as the Ministry of Rural Affairs. This is not really feasible. The nature of rural areas is as diverse and with different needs as urban life. If we think that one ministry should be responsible for organising all rural education, culture, public transport, economy, infrastructure, social welfare, health care, trade, postal and other services, then one ministry should be enough to organise urban life, and we can manage two ministries in Estonia: the Ministry of Urban Life and the Ministry of Rural Affairs. But nokia like that wouldn't work. One ministry cannot be competent to organise all the areas listed. However, it would be worth considering combining support for the rural development plan with support for the area of government of the Minister for Regional Affairs and bringing fisheries management to one ministry as a whole. Comprehensive rural and regional policy can be guaranteed by cross-ministerial coordination, which must come from the law, as we have a single monetary, budgetary and foreign policy, where, as a result of the law, not only the special role of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also all other ministries. As part of regional policy, rural policy can only be successful if it is based on a law that gives strong direction and is dealt with by the whole government and all ministries within their respective spheres of competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U46	Thank you, Minister. You have a lot of questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I thought I'd ask my question to the previous waitress, but I know you're an expert and I'm sure you can answer that question. You and the previous waitress paid attention to the difficulty of defining rural areas, its definition being vague. I think it'll get even more complicated in the future. In my opinion, the definition of rural and urban life or rural and urban areas is quite arbitrary. For example, let's look at the Viimsi municipality, which is valued at index 1. The municipalities of Harjumaa, Tallinn's neighbouring municipalities, and the rest of the rural municipalities differ quite a bit, but Viimsi municipality is different from them as well. What does Viimsi parish have to do with rural life?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U48	Thank you. I fully agree with you that rural areas are difficult to define and will be increasingly difficult in the future. As I said in my report, perhaps we should not pay so much attention in the future to the theoretical foundations and the definition of rural areas, but rather to the regions as a whole, to the centre with the hinterland. That makes sense. Viimsi municipality is certainly a district of Tallinn rather than a district located far from the centres. So I agree with you. In my opinion, the Viimsi municipality primarily means classical urban life and much less rural life. That's how it's been today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U49	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, At the beginning of your presentation, you showed global trends in the world. Indeed, for a few decades the number of urban inhabitants will increase to 80% of the world's population. What are the two or three toughest trumps in Estonia to resist urbanisation and maintain life in rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U51	If I could answer you clearly and convincingly, I think I could get a Nobel Prize because this problem is being dealt with around the world, but one or two very good, viable solutions have not been found. But these processes and transitions can certainly be softened. I think that the solution to the problem is not in one or two individual elements, but in a complex policy. If you try to highlight the priorities, I think the priorities are what I said in my speech. One priority is to try to create as many jobs as possible in regional centres and small towns, to create infrastructure and to retain the possibility of public services being available in such centres. This is certainly part of rural development. Rural development through regional centres should be one of the keys to this problem in Estonia. In my opinion, the county cities are the locomotives that also have to transport rural areas in Estonia. If there are still a few dozen viable centres in Estonia outside Tallinn and Tartu, then I think that rural areas around these centres will be preserved. So regional and holistic development in the regions is what we need to pay more attention to.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U52	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The future of our rural life depends largely on the measures planned for the RDP for the years 2014 to 2020. Would you mention some of the most important innovations you plan to introduce into the new rural development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U54	Thank you. Something completely new may be difficult to offer, as the current rural development plan, which was developed in 2006-2007, is in itself a pretty good development plan for Estonia. We have had to supplement and change it a little, but I think it is broadly balanced and a good development plan. What should be given more emphasis than has been the case so far? Firstly, it is certainly common action, particularly economic joint action, which, in its original form, was not the case in the rural development plan. We have completed this during this period. This is definitely the area that we need to put more emphasis on. Secondly, I think that the processing industry, or the food industry, is important, because the farmer still gets money from the market, the processing industry, which should sell production on the market and should also find export markets. So the processing industry, including in terms of organic production, is certainly a bottleneck. This is certainly a direction that we must support more strongly than has been the case so far. Also other non-agricultural land enterprise. This is certainly one of the keys to rural development. We need to think about how we can do this more forcefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U55	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U56	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! You gave a very long speech on the need for administrative reform. I agree with you that administrative reform should be carried out. The Latvians did it. On Monday, I met a representative of the Finnish Parliament who said that the number of municipalities in Finland would be reduced from 330 to 100 by spring. But what is stopping you from administrative reform through the latter? You're in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U57	Thank you. First of all, a brief comment on Finland and Latvia. The municipalities of Finland are already much bigger than the municipalities of Estonia. They have, in fact, been largely based on the regional principle that the centre and the hinterland form a single municipality. In Finland, too, such mergers have taken place on a voluntary basis over time. They are now planning the next step and even larger municipalities. As far as Latvia is concerned, Latvia is positive that they were able to redesign their administrative-territorial map, reach some kind of decision, and a hundred out of 500 municipalities remained in Latvia, but in my opinion this was not a very successful reform. We can see its fruits in the future and compare them with developments in Estonia and other countries. In my opinion, in the case of Latvia, the only right path would have been to base the regional distribution on 26 districts, and on this basis municipalities would have been formed, not the current 100 municipalities. In some cases, it has not been possible to agree that the municipality should be one whole territorially, but that there are so-called municipalities with different territories, which make up a single municipality. This is certainly not a successful solution. I think that any administrative reform in Estonia should not be carried out at any price, but should be considered and agreed. In my opinion, in the case of administrative-territorial reform, the agreement should be much wider than the agreement between parties in the coalition only at the moment. If we want a successful administrative reform that will pave the way in Estonia for decades, it must be a broader agreement than the agreement of the government coalition of this moment. I think this would require agreement between all four parliamentary parties. As we know, all four parliamentary parties have different positions here. That is why there has been no administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U58	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U59	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Professor Rando Värnik spoke about the need for balanced rural development. At present, the task of ensuring balanced development of the county is entrusted to the county governments by law. What is your opinion as a former governor of the country, what is the present capacity of rural governments in fulfilling their duty under law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U60	Thank you. In my opinion, this is the right and very necessary task and responsibility for rural governments. But unfortunately, I have to say that rural governments do not have a legal basis or money to carry out this beautiful objective. Therefore, my personal opinion is that the only viable solution is if the county is a municipality. I do not consider it necessary to have a multi-level government in Estonia, but precisely a local government at the county level, with an independent income base, with a directly elected representative body, or council, and with independent tasks. I think that if we have a few dozen regional authorities, we cannot shape them precisely on the basis of the current boundaries and number of counties. The counties are very different. In this context, I would say that Ida-Virumaa, Harjumaa and counties with two centres, such as Jõgevamaa and Järvamaa, are certainly more complex. There is a need to think seriously, but the basis could be that a more or less county authority should be developed to guide regional development as an independent authority with sufficient financial resources and rights. I think this would be the best solution for Estonia as well. Once again, the optimal territorial control unit in Estonia, which has historically evolved when we look at nature, the geographical picture, the settlement, the established infrastructure, the road network, is actually a county centre unit. This is optimal, be it education, public transport, planning or any other policy. This is, in my opinion, a sensible and correct solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U61	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U62	Thank you. Dear Minister, Thank you for this comprehensive presentation and overview of Estonian rural development. The last questions referred to administrative reform or administrative territorial reform, but this may also be a necessary section. In certain things, I agree with you a hundred percent, but there are things I'm sure I'd like to discuss more. But it's probably not a good time. However, I would like to ask you my question because of the current status of the Estonian University of Life Sciences and perhaps also in the context of a possible reform of higher education. Are you satisfied with the current activities of the University of Life Sciences and do you see the need to maintain an independent country university in the coming decades? If you think this is right, please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U63	Thank you. It is difficult to give a short, simple answer to such a thorough and complex question. In my opinion, there are things in the Estonian University of Life Sciences, as in all other universities, that are very well and deserve recognition, and there are things that should be strengthened and that need to be further developed more seriously. I couldn't make a single assessment that everything's fine or that it's bad. As regards the future of the University of Life Sciences, I think that if you mean the next ten or fifteen years, the Estonian University of Life Sciences should definitely develop as an independent university. What leads to a more distant future is difficult to say today. Closer cooperation between Estonian universities is certainly positive and necessary, and I do not rule out that cooperation may later increase the need for only two or even one universities in Estonia. This may be a perfectly sensible solution, but it should come through natural development and, above all, through cooperation, with resources, both material resources and the resources of academic and academic staff being used sensibly. Such integration, from which a common university may develop in the future, would, in my opinion, be a sensible way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U64	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question, too, was intended for the first waitress, but I have no doubt that you can answer that question either. The question concerns the area of export, which the honourable Professor was talking about. Let me give you a common example: if we go to the store and compare the price of Estonian agricultural products with the price of imported products, they are very different, and Estonian production is much more expensive. Of course, quality may also be better for this commodity, but if it stops on the counters, quality will clearly deteriorate. Please tell us whether our agricultural production can be exportable and competitive in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U66	The problem of cheap imports coming to Estonia is there. We often cannot sell the goods we produce at this price; it is not feasible for a domestic farmer. One of the reasons for this is the different subsidies from the European Union, which have been very much discussed. The cornerstone of our agricultural policy, bearing in mind the next common agricultural policy in the European Union, is that more equal levels of support must be achieved. But in this situation, too, I dare say that, in a generalized form, Estonian agriculture is exportable, just as one picture showed me here. Agriculture accounts for 2% of GDP, but agricultural production accounts for 10% of exports of goods, indicating that agriculture is relatively exportable. There are no doubt different sectors within agriculture. Milk is one of our elite areas in this sense. After all, we produce a raw milk of 160.170% of the need for the internal market, which means that this milk can be processed into food: cheese, butter, yogurt, curd, whatever. Much of the milk we sell outside our country. If we were to limit ourselves to the supply of the internal market, we should significantly reduce milk production. So already, Estonian agriculture is very export-oriented, it is dependent on export markets and it is also export-able in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U67	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I actually wanted to ask you about the diversification of the rural economy and the promotion of common economic activity, but you have already answered that question. I am pleased to hear that you consider this to be a priority in the next planning period. But now I'm going to ask you the next question. It is not a simple task to direct entrepreneurship beyond urban areas; it is easier to channel public jobs. Tax policy is known to be the most effective means of directing entrepreneurship. In the key to rural development and support for rural businesses, would you be willing to talk about tax exemptions as a means of supporting rural areas alongside other constructive and radical proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U69	I'd be very careful when making tax exemptions. Well, theoretically, that's one way to go. We know that there are countries in Europe that do this. However, as we can see from European experience, a very strong result has not been achieved. However, tax exemptions lead first to the complexity of the system, administration and bureaucracy, and often to the increase in tax fraud. As we can see, the business sector is always interested in optimising its spending and making itself "eligible" or minimising tax obligations. Frequently, shell companies are made to optimize taxes, but actual jobs may not move to land. I would be extremely careful with this measure. I do not think that this is a very strong and important solution, but it cannot be completely ruled out. If solutions are found, which in practice hold water and work, they should certainly be considered, but there are not many such examples in Europe. There is a Finnish example. There is also a regional dimension to tax policy, but in Finland, urbanisation has been faster in recent decades than in Estonia. So I don't really believe in tax exemptions as a solution to problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U70	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U71	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I had a question for the esteemed professor about service centers. I'm asking you now. It is claimed that there is no need for administrative reform, but service centres that are going to provide public services are also part of public administration. You're talking about the center and the back. Who should make these service centres and where should they be placed in our administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U72	Thank you. I think the service center idea is a good idea. This will allow better use of available resources and resources. Secondly, I hope that this will ensure that the so-called services are available in the rural area. In this sense, I certainly support it. I think it should also be part of the reform. We are not just talking about service centres, we are seeing problems more widely. I would take that as part of the administrative reform. Is that so important in what area of government or under which ministry should it be located exactly? If this is part of a comprehensive policy, then that would be the solution. In my opinion, the idea of service centres in counties, for example, could be resolved through the county authorities that decide it. The county authorities are large enough to allow the state to give them regional tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U73	Dear Minister, I thank you for your report and your answers. It is my great honour to ask Kalvi Tõud, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U74	Good rural development reporters! Mr President, thank you very much. Colleagues! Good listeners! It is a great honour for me to present here before you, on behalf of the Committee on Rural Development, and to pass on to you, in the context of the debate on the report on rural development, the issues and thoughts raised in the Committee on Rural Affairs. As we have heard from previous reports, and as we ourselves know, the rural population has undergone a very big change here in Estonia and in the world as a whole over the last century. In the 1897 census, 15.5% of people said that they were urban people and 84.5% said that they lived in the countryside and were rural people. A century later, in 2000, a large number of people had left behind the smoke - scented Savusanna and the agricultural work, and 67.4% of the population had already moved to the tap water and factory work coming from the pipe. As the previous reports have shown, it is very difficult to draw a border between urban and rural areas. As we know, many of those who live in the city have built another home, or a country home, or a cottage, or have kept it on land. This is the way people go to rest, in difficult and joyful moments, still charge batteries at their roots in the country. As we read in the report before us, emigration has stopped in the last ten years. I would say more: I think that very many young people have gone back to their roots in their minds and want to do exactly what their ancestors did in their daily editing, nutrition and cultural consumption. When we talk about rural areas, we certainly cannot get through without talking about food, because food is what is produced on land and brought to the table of the city. If we look at Estonia through history, food security and self-sufficiency have always been very important in Estonia, and so it is now. It has to be said that we have reached the point that in very many sectors we already have a 100% self-sufficiency. Some of the individual sectors still need some help. I will bring out some of the factors affecting rural life. As the previous waitresses stopped on them, let's say repeating is the mother of wisdom. I will first stop at the European common agricultural policy, which has indeed been well spoken about in recent months. But we agreed in the Committee on Rural Affairs that I will stay here today to talk about the Riigikogu board. It is important for Estonian farmers to achieve that our opportunities become more equal than those of Europe's neighbours. This means that we need to achieve the objective of flat-rate area payments, which has also been confirmed by the European Commission, so that our farmers receive 90% of the European average. But the pace that the European Commission has offered for us to reach it by 2028 is, in our opinion, very slow and sluggish. We have to get to this much earlier, in the forthcoming financial perspective. While single area payments are certainly also the capital that affects rural areas, the different axes of the rural development plan, in particular the third and fourth axes, also have a very significant impact on rural development. The third axis concerns rural non-agricultural entrepreneurship and village life. Leader activities are certainly also important. As the Minister for Agriculture has rightly said, the availability of jobs in rural areas is very important. We in the Committee on Rural Affairs also believe that the existence and creation of jobs outside agriculture should be encouraged, because only 3% of those employed are currently working in agriculture. I will also tell you about one of the proposals on the table of the Committee on Rural Affairs, which we will certainly be working on in the coming weeks and months. As mentioned by the Minister of Agriculture, the country has centralised a large number of its agencies and has taken a very large number of stable paid higher education jobs from rural areas to centres, especially the capital. We are proposing that teleworking be better implemented so that ministries and agencies offer teleworking jobs in their administration, but this work is done not on the basis of homework, but on the basis of the current state-owned buildings in the counties. Of course, housing and infrastructure are also essential for rural development, as lower wages must compensate for the quality of the living environment and the organisation of the living environment. Local authorities play a very important role here, of course, alongside the state. On behalf of the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I would like to thank all the municipalities, in particular the municipalities and small towns. And why? When we entered the European Union and started using the grant money, we had a great fear and fear of whether we could do so, whether we had enough competence, whether we could meet all the requirements that the European Union had placed on us. Looking back, we can say we did. This is largely due to the small municipalities and towns that had the will, courage and intelligence to write, implement and implement projects. All this so that the countryside has a better living environment. That is why we firmly believe that local governments, whether large or small, administrative or administrative, are currently undoubtedly centres of competence in the region, where all the development needs and ideas of the region are largely collapsing. When we agreed on this presentation in the Commission, we did not get past the issue of administrative reform. Although all the political parties represented in this Parliament are members of our committee and we know that we all have different views on how administrative reform might appear, everyone felt that we should discuss this issue here in the Riigikogu, between the walls of the Riigikogu building, why not in this Chamber too. The Committee on Rural Affairs is certainly a very cooperative partner for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to discuss this issue. The Committee on Rural Affairs recognises and thanks the authors of the report: researchers and professors of Estonian University of Life Sciences and OÜ Geomedia, and in particular Rando Värnik, who was the engine for compiling this report. The Committee on Rural Affairs also thanks all my fellow Members for having had so much vigour a year ago to put in the budget a small amount of money so that this report can be drawn up. The Committee also wishes to all colleagues in other committees that the rural development report should be a good working document for you, which it is good to put on the table again and again, to rely on it when making various rural decisions and then to look at how your decision has been reflected in rural areas. Finally. This is indeed the first such rural development report. We in the Committee on Rural Affairs sincerely hope that there will be continuity and that we will be able to discuss such reports again in this Chamber at some time. Thank you very much, everyone. I look forward to hearing your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U75	Honourable waitress! Thank you! There's a lot of questions. Treasure Heinvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for your very good presentation. I want to intrigue you a little bit about the public and private sector. If we know the private sector as a rational sector, then the public sector is often in the role of a palliator who wants to soften this rationality. The cross-cutting issue has been the drought of jobs in the country, which is expressed in the public sector in the same way as excessive national centralisation. The Ministry of Agriculture is symbolically located in the Old Town of Tallinn. If it were up to you, would you take the Ministry of Agriculture out of Tallinn and, if so, where, for example, to Rapla?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U77	If I had offered to take you to Rõuge, my answer might have been different. But okay. No, I think that the ministries must, in their essence, be located in Tallinn. However, I am sure that 10% of the ministry's jobs can be arranged in a teleworking form, i.e. three officials who carry out analyses, prepare draft laws or something else, may also be located in Rapla. Surely an official may be located in Võru, for example in the Võru County Government building. This means that we should carry out a serious analysis of which positions can be taken out of Tallinn given the current level of development of information technology. I think that would create some competence in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U78	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U79	Dear waitress, You dealt with the issue of administrative reform. In two main reports we heard a rather contradictory approach to administrative reform. I understand that the Committee on Rural Affairs has also discussed this a little bit. I think it is a very good idea that it is the Committee on Rural Affairs that should start looking for consensus on administrative reform. But I am interested that, if you have discussed this in your committee, at least in your committee, what direction would this consensus be in?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U80	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U81	Thank you, my good colleague. It must certainly be said that if we do not change the division of labour in the Riigikogu, the organisation of administrative reform is not within the competence of the Committee on Rural Affairs, but within the competence of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But we can discuss it. When we discussed this in the Commission, it is from this point of view whether it is necessary or not. We know, of course, that all four parliamentary parties have different views on what the outcome could be and what the way to achieve it would be. Today, I do not dare to say that we in the Committee on Rural Affairs would already have reached the edge of a consensus during this debate. But the debate was dynamic and it was great.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, My question is relatively practical. Small farmers, who employ the entire family or their large family, have often made quite a lot of self-financing commitments in connection with the euro payments and the possibility of making large investments. Now the economy is not going so well and there may be difficult financial conditions or liquidity problems, but these jobs are to be kept. Do you think we have enough support systems to help small farmers in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U83	Thank you. That's a really big problem. To alleviate this problem, many years ago (I don't remember what year it was) the Rural Promotion Foundation, or MES, was created. At the time, the State put a certain amount of money into the MES each year to guarantee farmers' loans. It was a very strong and nice support structure for our entrepreneurs. Over the last few years, state subsidies have completely ceased in the MES. As a result, the MES cannot currently fulfil its main task and objective, but it would certainly be necessary, especially if we look at the forthcoming financial perspective. Surely this should be discussed and perhaps come back to the original idea and ideology of the MES.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U84	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! How do you feel which issues and problems have not yet been solved? For example, there has been talk in the Chamber about administrative reform, demography, employment, resource problems, etc. How much time do you think we have, the resources of time, to find solutions to these problems and to deal with them? For example, we cannot talk infinitely about administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U86	Thank you. There are certainly many problems that have not yet been resolved. But I'm gonna talk to you about something. The minister was asked what he thought of the University of Life Sciences and whether the university should remain independent or not. In my opinion, the country university must remain independent. The problem on which we have not found a solution is how to motivate young people to go on learning to be an agronomist and a zootechnic. These issues are, in my opinion, very important for sustainable rural areas. As we go to various large producers, we can see that a person who has graduated from school during the Soviet period is an agronomist or a zootechnic. Veterinarians who are trained by Mait in Tartu may go to small animal clinics to work. Do they want to go work on a big farm in the country? In my opinion, we must inject into society the attitude of young people that a rural man is not a redneck. We need to change our attitude. The agricultural sector we are talking about today is already sustainable in very many places and can also offer a very good opportunity for development and decent pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U87	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U88	Thank you. I listened to the presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Its tonality seemed to be perhaps too little colorful or even a little modest. Surely, tens of thousands of people in the country expect something delightful, motivating, positive. Maybe you'll say something positive that gets better in the country and what to do to make people feel better about living on the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U89	Yeah, maybe that's what the report looked like. Our committee is such a serious one, it goes into problems in depth, and there may not be so much joy in our committee. But as a rural man and a farmer-farmer, I see quite a ray of hope at the end of the tunnel. So there's nothing wrong, Kalev, the country gets better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U90	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U91	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable performer! First of all, thank you, as Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, for bringing the matter as important as rural development to the Riigikogu. I, whose roots are in the countryside, am very sympathetic to the improvement of the countryside and to young families finding their way to the country, not the other way around, as it is happening now. The Minister of Agriculture said that the most important thing in the country is not the availability of pharmacies, schools or post offices, but precisely jobs. You also stressed that jobs are important. I'm sure you've been following government action in this direction. Please tell me what the government has done over the last few years to really create more jobs in the country. I am not just talking about agricultural jobs here, because it concerns only 3% of the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U92	I have already mentioned that very strong support for non-agricultural jobs in rural areas has been provided by the European Union's support money. Perhaps, in order to create more non-agricultural jobs on land, we should also contribute more money from national funds, not just European money. But thanks to the support for the third axis of the rural development plan, a great deal of jobs have been created in rural areas. There have been opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U93	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for the fact that the debate on such an important issue has reached this big hall! I am of the opinion that rural development is largely equivalent to the development of Estonia. Consequently, I have the question: how do you feel about how many of the MPs in this Chamber feel the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U95	Most, I hope. Serious urban life has been in Estonia for a hundred years. I guess we're all country and forest people. So I think in our inner and soul we all feel the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U96	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U97	Thank you. I will also elaborate on the government's activities in creating jobs or developing a working environment in rural areas. You said that we have received European Union funds that have been used to create jobs in the countryside. But do you see that there are opportunities left untapped that the government could have done to make life on earth progress and to create more jobs? Let us not just talk about European Union funds. What can we do about ourselves, but maybe we haven't?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U98	I do not know exactly how to answer this question, but the work of the current government has certainly affected the availability of jobs in the country. On the one hand, funds have been set up and people have been given opportunities to ask for additional support to create jobs. At the same time, if we reduce the state sector in the country, state companies will act in a similar way to the state: Eesti Post, RMK, Eesti Energia. All of this reduces the number of people in the country who are "decisive" and have a stable job. So it goes in circles. At the same time, if there is no post office or rescue command in the country, one or the other company will start thinking that if the rescue team is so far away or there is no one, the other or the third support structure, or there is no school in this area or in the village, whether it will set up its own company there. How sure can he be that people aren't going to get out of there? There are still a great many points of discussion here. Surely the rural development plan that is on our tables today also gives us support points on which we can base our decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U99	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U100	Thank you. Good waitress! Have you discussed this in the Commission, or do you have a specific proposal or idea of what rural resources have not yet been able to do, but should be done in the next financial period? Perhaps there should be a specific measure to help young families come to the country or create jobs, or there is something else that you think needs to be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U101	These measures will be supported either by a non-profit organisation or an enterprise and will thus be able to achieve its objectives. I think that we could focus more on 'cultural entrepreneurship' in the next period, i.e. to focus more on regional specificities and produce products that are specific to this region in the agricultural sector. This will increase the competitiveness of domestic tourism for a piece of land. That is, in my opinion, what we could do more in the next period.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U102	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You once mentioned a rescue commando, which encouraged me to ask. One thing is national, large and professional commandos. But given your personal experience in your home country, what do you think it is difficult to get such a voluntary movement going in the countryside and what role does voluntary rescue work play in rural development?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U104	Thank you. Certainly, voluntary rescue activities play a very important role in rural development. When we look at the time of the first Republic of Estonia, the fights to become the leader of the local crowd of free-will sprayers were bigger than when we became a parish elder. So there are definitely parallels from history here. The creation of a commando for private sprayers or rescuers in rural areas is also very important for another reason. What are the other voluntary activities that can help you to work together for a common goal in the region? Women have been very good founders of women's societies and crafts NGOs; women have also been very active in meeting there. But men have managed to get out of the house for some other purpose only in a few places. But to protect your home and your family, men are always willing to come. Voluntary capacity for rescue can also improve the initiative in the region by providing security. So it certainly has a huge role to play. I congratulate the current Minister of the Interior, who is paying attention to the volunteers. I think they're one of the biggest climbers of the next decade, most of all there will be voluntary rescue zones on the NPO landscape.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U105	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U106	Thank you. My question is a little broader. I've been living in the country for the last few years, you've been living and working there for a while. I have a question about joint and cooperative activities. Are you satisfied with the situation that is currently on the ground in connection with joint and cooperative activities or what can be done better? In the area where I'm working, this could be more active. Everyone looks more at what he needs for himself, there is little joint action. There is one good example of Võrumaa, that is the example of the machinery association. I am referring not only to the business sector, but also to other contexts. How do you feel about fixing things here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U107	In the Võrumaa context, the examples of cooperative activities are a bit more than that, but that is why. I think and know that, in fact, joint action is a priority. This issue is being carried out in the agricultural sector by the umbrella organisations of producers, in particular the Confederation of Farmers, who have also received the resources to do so. These activities are all taking place. Cluster-based joint action should and could be more. There have been good examples in recent years where goods produced in one region are marketed together. Acting together under a common mark will be more effective in marketing. We also took a small stumbling block off the road of this so-called unification a few months ago in this Chamber. These activities are taking place. It's supposed to be more, but it's gonna get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U108	There are no more questions for the performer right now. Thank you very much, Kalvi Tough! We're going to negotiate. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speech as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Kalev Eagle. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to congratulate the authors of the first rural development report, led by Professor Rando Värnik, for both an excellent idea and its realization. We consider it very important that the first rural development report be followed every year by a new one that describes the changes that have taken place during the year and thus provides a clear and realistic picture of what is happening in rural areas. When we talk about rural areas, we are talking about 90% of Estonia's territory and about 300,000 to 400,000 people. It is such a large part of our land and people that dealing with their future must not be carried out in a race or campaign. Not even now, when our countryside is in the best shape of all the post-independence period. The rural development plan, which is being prepared, for the years 2014 to 2020 must create the prerequisites for a more systematic and meaningful operation. The billions of euro from the European Union to our rural development do not change anything in itself. It has also been stressed here today that it is important for rural policy making to provide regional development programmes in response to the needs of the region. In the framework of the Estonian Rural Development Plan 2007-2013, several interesting and regional-specific measures were proposed, which unfortunately were not approved by the European Union. Unfortunately, Estonia itself does not have the money to realise these measures, and so we are in a situation where we do not always develop our rural life as we need and want, but as the European Union allows. The Social Democrats are of the opinion that the Estonian state must start to contribute more to rural development itself. As taxes are also collected from rural areas, the people there have a moral right to a quality of life more or less equal to urban people and to a number of public services. Agriculture is certainly the most prominent part of rural life. In fact, agriculture employs only about 10% of the rural population and about 3% of the total population of the country. There is an absurd situation in economic terms. We have the most agricultural land per capita in Europe, but we only produce 10% of the fruits and berries consumed in Estonia, 70% of the vegetables and vegetables, depending on the year 80.100% of the cereals, 90% of the beef. Only pork is produced more than 100% and milk even more than 160% of what is consumed in Estonia. The potential of domestic agriculture is not fully exploited. However, this cannot be criticised for farmers and, in the current distorted conditions of competition, call for a significant increase in production. If the rates of support converge with the old Member States of the European Union, it will all work out for itself. The Social Democrats therefore consider it important that 90% of the EU average subsidy rate for farmers is guaranteed during the next financial period and not until 2028, as the European Commission's offer is currently in force. But the time when rural and agricultural were seen to be synonymous is really over. Today, the country produces not only food but all other goods and services necessary for life. The diversification of rural areas creates opportunities for people with very different expectations, demands, qualifications and abilities to live in the countryside. Speaking of new rural challenges, social democrats offer a multifunctionality of rural entrepreneurship. The goods, services and social well-being needed by society can be provided at the same time in a company and in an environmentally friendly manner. In the context of multifunctional production, it is important to link up different activities. For example, catering, tourism, recreation, leisure activities, working, learning and acquiring new experiences, recreation and local production are linked. The aim of this model is to provide goods or services produced in local clean environments to a growing number of people with urbanised lifestyles. The diversification of the rural economy requires networking, be it product or regional. Good examples of cluster-based activity can be found both in South-East and South-East Estonia, as well as in the islands. We are pleased that a new rest has been found by the will of the earth's people and that we can work together. The Leader action will work together both in the planning process and in the implementation of the plans. The reward is a unique opportunity to experience the highest level of joy in working together. In addition, new laws and a more orderly living environment are created as a second-round effect. The Social Democrats consider it important that the Leader action continues in the new financial period of the European Union and that there is no two-year break currently foreseen when new funding is launched. As regards the formal aspect of rural life, i.e. administrative organisation, the social democrats believe that Estonia needs an administrative reform like air. The current administrative-territorial anarchy under the label of voluntary accession only weakens the level of local governments. As a result, some municipalities are larger than neighbouring counties and the number of inhabitants varies almost 150 times. It is difficult to categorise such different structures under the common denominator'municipalities'. It is even more difficult to require them to be able to perform similar tasks. 25 of the 27 EU Member States have a two-tier self-government system. In the opinion of the Socialists, the best solution for Estonia would also be to restore the second, so-called regional self-government level to the content of the planned administrative reform. A two-tier self-government system is undoubtedly the most democratic way of regional governance. A clear division of roles between the two levels would avoid the existing institutional fragmentation and even reduce economic costs. In our opinion, a two-tier self-government system is a reasonable compromise between efficiency and democracy. The reputation of rural areas is clearly improving. Unfortunately, sometimes painted in the press, the prospects for the future are ruining the practices of present-day rural people and hampering the desire of many young people to link their future to rural life. If anything threatens our rural life, it is the underestimation of it and the rejection of talented young people from the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U110	Thank you very much. Next, as a representative of the Group of the Aivar Koka Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U111	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! We all have a relationship with rural areas, which is why Estonia's rural development, which is considered a matter of national importance in this Chamber today, probably leaves no one indifferent. The development of the Estonian state as a whole and rural development depend more closely on human capital. How many people we have and what the quality of human capital is, it largely determines the pace at which the Estonian state and thus our rural area move forward. The critical problem in rural areas is now and, in fact, for a long time, there has been a decline in population and an ageing population. In addition, the uneven distribution of the population exacerbates economic and social problems in certain regions. This has led to an increase in the cost of both public and private services and has exacerbated the economic competitiveness of the regions. The drainage of the rural area, or urbanization, takes place worldwide, but a good and functional recipe for stopping it has not been found. The pace of urbanisation in Estonia has been even slower than in the countries with which we tend to compare ourselves. In some ways, our advantage has been the small size of the country and the mobility of people plus advanced communication tools, which have ultimately enabled people to live in the countryside. Thus, we may not be in perfect condition, but the crying song would also be an obvious exaggeration. The important question today is: how to proceed? It is essential that the state authorities at all levels acknowledge the importance of regional policy. This means that important decisions will be preceded by an analysis of how they affect the development of Estonian rural areas, our diverse regions, so that the country has a clear-cut understanding of rural development and regional policy. Rural life is not about itself, but about the preservation of Estonian nation and culture. Our day-to-day decisions must be based on the goal of bequeathing to future generations the land and the country where the Estonian language is spoken as the native language from Virus to Võrun and Peipsi Beach to Ristnan. The state must be understanding, flexible and caring enough to notice and help different regions of Estonia. The key issue for rural development is and will remain the availability of viable jobs. It is a fact that a large part of rural people work outside their home government. Even upper secondary schools often go even further in the county centre, vocational schools and universities. This means that a working or studying person has developed an area of activity that far exceeds the boundaries of his home government and extends at least to the county centre, but even further. The current municipalities are certainly the competence centres of the region, no matter how large or small they are, but our local government system does not take into account the changed circumstances that indicate the need for administrative reform and for larger municipalities based on the area of operation. Modernising regional administration would help to better organise public services and ensure their availability in economically less developed regions. The national administrative reform is a sensitive issue, but it is time to reject differences of opinion and start a discussion. We must clearly define in the discussions what tasks village societies, local authorities, local governments, rural governments and different structures of state authority are to be carried out. I think that society is ready to discuss these issues with a clear and loud voice and look for solutions. Are we ready for that in this hall? I hope so, because, at the moment, municipalities are no longer competing with each other, but we are competing with neighbouring countries whose standard of living is higher than our own. We must admit that we did not foresee such a great loss of labour to other countries, even less to be prepared for it. In order to bring these people back, we must create much better opportunities at home. We have created a number of programmes that, on the one hand, help create jobs at smaller county centres through the creation of industrial areas and competence centres. On the other hand, the creation of jobs in the tourism sector will be supported through the Visitor Centres programme. There is also a dedicated programme to improve internet connectivity on land, which creates the possibility for IT-based remote jobs to develop outside large centres. Ladies and gentlemen, When it comes to rural development, it is not possible to overlook agriculture, the economic and cultural significance of which is impossible to overestimate. The membership of the European Union has undoubtedly given an important boost to Estonian agriculture and thus to rural development. Without exaggerating it can be said that the European Union's common agricultural policy is one of the driving forces of Estonian agriculture alongside the hard work of our people. The increase in the efficiency of agriculture has led to a reduction in the number of people employed in this sector, which has enabled, among other things, other areas to develop, but which has unfortunately also meant the migration of people from the country to the city. Equalising direct payments for the common agricultural policy in the European Union is one of the major tasks of Estonian policy, which has commendably found general support within the country. However, the increase in direct payments must not be at the expense of rural development support intended for investment and innovation. We want equal treatment for farmers in the European Union. The IRL also considers it necessary to maintain the financing of agriculture by the Estonian state at least in its current capacity. In this way we will be able to ensure the competitiveness and export capacity of Estonian agriculture and the sustainable development of our regions. A schoolteacher is the salt of the country, but what about the school education provided in the country when the number of students decreases and the number of children no longer exists? Kindergartens and primary schools must remain as close to home as possible in the future, but unfortunately this can no longer be said for all primary schools and upper secondary schools. It is time for municipalities to sit at a common table and decide which schools remain, but which schools must be closed in anticipation of better times. It's not an easy job, and it can't be. In parallel with the concentration of the school network, the free transport of children to school and home needs to be developed, the availability of recreational education improved and the number of student homes increased. Our talented young people, whose parents' income is lower than Estonia's average salary, must have the opportunity to study at an institution of higher education. The first reading of the draft law on free higher education has already taken place in this hall. This is an important step to ensure that people do not only have to choose their homes according to their salary numbers, but also enjoy the countryside, not fearing that the future of these children would suffer in any way. The important thing is for decisions to be taken with caution and for people to be offered reasonable solutions. Then people understand the choices of politicians. Good friends! Fortunately, there are a lot of hardworking and good people in the rural area, so many people have a beautiful country home, people keep their home. There are many activists who stubbornly carry cultural and social life in the country. It is also worth giving a round of applause to those rural operators who, despite everything, have not closed their company's doors and offer jobs to those who have not yet run behind the city or border. Finally, I would like to thank all the authors of the first rural development report. Although we are talking about rural issues today, it is important that the city and the country work together because there are no two Estonias, but there is one Estonia. I hope that the preparation of rural development reports will become regular, as will the discussion on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U112	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a speech chair as representative of the Group of the Heimar Leng Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U113	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Our group also sincerely thanks the authors of this study, the University of Earth, the rector who was here today on the balcony, and personally Mr Värnik, who has done this great job, and, of course, the Ministry of Agriculture, who has supported all these things with thought and money, as well as the Committee on Rural Affairs, who has actively participated in this work. In order to be a little original and not to repeat the thoughts of others, I may be talking about a slightly different subject, namely why we have reached the position we are in. On the one hand, of course, there are objective reasons for this, such as the simultaneous implementation of many reforms in the early years of independence in Estonia; on the other hand, subjective factors are also important here. The underestimating attitude of those in power towards agriculture, especially large-scale production, was probably the reason for the rapid and drastic fall in production in the second half of the 1990s. In addition to this, a strong factor was the maybe too rapid taking-up of the liberal world view in Estonia, which was interpreted here primarily in such a way that saving the drowner is a matter for the drowner himself or that drowning is a normal rather than an exceptional phenomenon. And there have been thousands of these drownings. It was clear to every agricultural person, not just a farmer, that agricultural products produced under Estonian conditions could not compete with the production of agriculturally more favourable areas. Unfortunately, the rulers of that time, the first Estonian governments, could not or did not want to understand it. Since multifunctionality in the country was then only an unattainable dream, which was not supported by real rural development, agriculture and with it the decline of rural life was inevitable. People, as we well know today, responded with their feet. While the number of people employed in Estonia has fallen significantly over the last 20 years, this figure has fallen dramatically in agriculture. Examples from the report: while in 2010, we had 31% of people employed, i.e. one third less than in 1990, employment in agriculture, forestry and fishing fell by 86% as a whole. According to the rural development report, there were 326 collective and sovchosis in Estonia in 1989, with almost 8,000 hectares in the middle. In 1989 828 farms with an average size of 25 hectares had also been created. In the next ten years, the number of farms exploded, but the number of farms decreased, as many of them did not prove to be viable under the circumstances. Since 2001, there has been a reverse process and the number of agricultural holdings has decreased rapidly over the last ten years. In 2010, according to preliminary data, there were 19700 agricultural holdings in Estonia, which is 65% less than in 2001. It is clear that, like in other areas, the viability and competitiveness of agriculture are largely determined by the size of investments. Agriculture, which was synonymous with rural life in the early 1990s, was viewed as some sort of Soviet remnant that should cope with liberal ideology itself. While between 1997 and 2001, agricultural holdings invested EUR 18,4 million per year in fixed assets, it was 2002/2008. Already EUR 103.4 million per year for 2009 which will remain in the initial years of accession to and membership of the European Union. It's obvious that...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U114	Good waitress! Would you like some extra time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U115	... joining the European Union saved Estonian agriculture. Now we see the reverse process, there are fewer subsidies and we can hardly apply the equality of subsidies to us as we would like. I'm sure it'll take a lot more time than we'd like. However, further production is required and it is clear that the competitiveness of Estonian agriculture is at risk because the inputs are equal in all countries, the market is equal, but the subsidies in Estonia are considerably smaller than elsewhere. While in the old Member States larger subsidies help to curb the rise in food prices, farmers in Estonia have little chance of doing so. There is no satisfaction, apart from the farmer, with consumers who have a growing gap in their spending on daily food in their thin wallets. However, in the end, there is still a very good number, a very positive number, which several rapporteurs have already mentioned here, also Minister Seeder, namely that 10.4% of our exports come from agriculture. The Minister's speech was extremely constructive, but I would like to have a small discussion on one point. In fact, the Minister said that the country needed jobs first and that the post office was not so important. I think the post office is just as important. When I travel to my constituency in South Estonia and arrive at the centre of Linda's collective farm in Võrumaa, for example, where I went around as a journalist in my youth, I do not exaggerate by saying that the tear comes in my eye. There was once a double hotel in this collective farm, I'm not talking about a diner, I'm not talking about all the service facilities that were in the village centers at the time, all the way to the women's barbershop, all the way to the bakery, all the way to the TV repair. These were active, working village centers that kept life in the countryside. There isn't one right now. Maybe we should think about recreating them, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U116	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a speech chair as representative of the Group of the Andre Sepa Reform Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! I would like to thank the representative of the Estonian University of Life Sciences, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, for a very good and comprehensive presentation, as well as the Riigikogu Board and the Rural Affairs Committee for their consensual decision to discuss rural issues as a crucial national issue here in the Riigikogu today. For the Estonian Reform Party, the quality of life in the rural area has been important throughout the ages. The first rural development report we have heard today is an adequate overview of the rural organisation of Estonia that has regained independence. Although the statistics are relatively dry, they characterise developments and trends. At the same time, they also provide very good feedback to us politicians on the decisions we have made. The report shows the main rural-related processes that have ensured the full development of the democratic state so far. Indeed, the concept of rural life is very broad and multi-dimensional in nature. So we can also tend to go to very large extremes in our estimates. But for an Estonian who loves his home country, rural life is mainly related to agriculture, forestry, fishing and food production, as well as to clean and valuable housing where to create and preserve your family. We all understand and sense (we also heard this from today's presentations) that the most important rural influence of the past decade was accession to the European Union's common agricultural policy, which has valued both the economic and social environment in the rural area. Land reform, which is in the final stages, is also important, which gives generations the confidence to apply longer-term strategies specifically for land use. Today we can safely claim that the food products produced in Estonia can cover the food table of their people without import, and the export of agricultural products is long awaited on the rise. It is clear that administrative reform and the multiplicity of municipalities have been an issue for politicians. However, on the basis of the report that we have heard today, the main drivers of rural development have been local authorities, as they direct land use and the use of money, particularly in view of the specific characteristics of the countryside and in the interests of the people living there. The Reform Party welcomes the recognition that 99% of Estonia is covered by Leader areas. There's 26. As of the end of the year, 3660 projects had been approved to mobilise EUR 37 million. We believe that the Leader measure is the best form of cooperation between non-profit organisations, the private sector and local authorities for the development of rural areas, which deserves great recognition and which also values the work of local authorities. The Reform Party wants a country of equal opportunities for citizens. We are involved in the implementation of a level playing field within the European Economic Area, especially when setting agricultural subsidies between Member States. We support the decoupling of the CAP from the production volumes of the past and the granting of direct payments on an increasing basis of public interest, such as the availability of domestic food and sufficient income to keep production going. This is the key to the viability of the rural area. We are a people who are not used to asking for help, but we are looking for opportunities and ideas to win trust and markets around the world. We are located in a geographically stable climate zone, which allows us to produce the main living resource of food. Only the introduction of innovative technologies in food production and processing will ensure rationality and best competitiveness. We must focus on developing innovative forms of enterprise and infrastructure suitable for entrepreneurship. It mitigates the risks of farming and diversifys rural areas as a whole. We consider it important to promote joint action and cooperation, support and recognise the creative people who develop the region as we know that in a globalised world community awareness, cooperation between the village community, the municipality, the Leader area and local entrepreneurship is becoming increasingly important. We see a clear need to develop and enhance this cooperation in every way possible. When it comes to rural areas, cities and the fact that cities are mostly built up at the expense of rural development cannot be excluded. It is not right to contrast urban life with rural life and vice versa. Both need to be developed and both have their advantages in providing people with a living environment. It is the task of the State to develop both and avoid preferential developments in favour of one region or another. We consider the free movement of people to realise and develop their abilities to be important here. This requires the development of high-quality roads and connections between regions. Much has also been said today about the European Union's support measures, which provide certainty. This will also be facilitated by the new financial period of the European Union for the years 2014 to 20.20, as the Cohesion Fund measures will increase compared to the previous period. The aim is to put these instruments into work, in particular in view of regional needs for rural diversification. Of course, these are only means of achieving goals; we must develop strategies ourselves in Estonia. We believe that there will be supporters for the ideas announced by our party in the future, so we can get a better Estonia for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-12_U118	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I would also like to thank all those who have prepared for the discussion of a crucial national issue. I thank the waitresses, the questioners and the background forces! The agenda for the sitting has been exhausted. Have a nice day! Closure of the sitting at 12.35 p.m.
