ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 17th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I wish everyone a beautiful Estonian flag day! It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U3	Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U4	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to pass on, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, which does not consider as a special advantage compensation for workers' health sports costs or expenditure on health services and treatments for disease prevention (including tick shots, influenza vaccinations or dental care), which does not exceed EUR 400 per worker per calendar year. Last week, when the same bill did not pass the first reading in this very Riigikogu, I realized during the debate that good colleagues generally have nothing against this idea. On the contrary, there was support for the idea that today the means of production are no longer just machines and equipment in which investment in Estonia is exempt from income tax, but the modern means of production is primarily the human brain, and it is man who gives the competitive advantage. So it makes perfect sense that we are taking a step closer to the 21st century with our tax system and exempting the costs of health sports and health promotion by employers during the year from the special preferential tax in some respects. We have amended the draft according to the advice of our colleagues, so there should now be no further obstacles to supporting this bill. We also decided not to wait five years, as Erki Nool, who was the rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs, recommended when reading the rejected draft. Erki, you told me to come up with this again. Here we are and look forward to the support of you and all other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U5	Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 18 colleagues, I have an inquiry to report to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. This inquiry concerns the recommendations of the European Commission. At the end of May, the European Commission adopted a package of recommendations on fiscal measures and economic reforms, which gave concrete recommendations to each Member State to improve financial stability, growth and jobs. In its recommendations on Estonia, the Commission considers that despite the surplus of our government budget and the reduction in unemployment, Estonia's reform efforts have been insufficient. The opposition parties of the Riigikogu have constantly drawn the attention of the Government of the Republic to the bottlenecks in Estonia, and very many of them are now also brought to the attention of the European Commission. For example, in its assessment, the Commission has pointed out that the loan burden of private individuals is very high in Estonia. There is also a high risk of youth unemployment and long-term unemployment, as well as of poverty among children in households who are unemployed. The Commission considers that the abolition of land tax on housing land reduces opportunities to increase and diversify budget revenues without undermining economic growth. The Commission is quite critical of the family benefit system in Estonia in its recommendations, as children are not given enough attention after these 18 months of life. In this context, we have four questions for the Prime Minister concerning the Commission's proposals on tax policy and labour policy, as well as on children's benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U7	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu's board. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now let's get to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has taken proceedings in the Estonian Central Party faction. a Draft Act amending § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, which was initiated on 31 May, and has appointed it as the commission of the Committee on Culture. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the European Commission's e-procurement strategy submitted on 31 May 2004 and has appointed the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho 14 June at 4 p.m. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now making a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 12 are missing. The next item is the adoption of the 17th working week agenda. I shall put the 17th working week agenda to the vote in the form prescribed. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, let us get to the points on today's agenda. First of all, we will discuss an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, Andres Anvelt, Jaak Allik, Neeme Suur and Helmen Küti, on 12 April 2012 regarding the fulfilment of health protection requirements in pre-school children's institutions. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Speaker Heljo Pikhofi on behalf of the inquisitors, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U9	Madam President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Five Social Democrats have submitted to the Minister for Social Affairs an inquiry into the fulfilment of health protection requirements in pre-school childcare facilities. Municipalities have had a great deal of concern and are kindergartens. In particular, there has been an increase in demand for childcare facilities for young children. It is therefore urgent to create new places for this, but we must also think about children who are already in kindergarten. The new kindergartens have twice as much space in the group as in the old ones, and there are also dining rooms and rooms for various activities. The kindergartens built in the 1980s usually have only a play and sleep space, and the latter can also be used as a playroom, but there are older types or adapted kindergartens, where all day activity takes place in a single group room. There are more than 50 groups like this in Tartu. These groups have an average surface area of about 2,500 square feet [2.5 sq m] for one child on the list, half of which is under furniture. After all, children must have tables, chairs, emergency cases for toys, and the teacher needs a desk and some long training materials. In addition, there are also beds that, when pulled apart, take over a quarter of the room. Each child has a free playground of about a square meter and the teacher has to constantly resolve child-to-child conflicts. The new national curriculum also sets requirements for spatial design. Children must have playgrounds and the possibility of separation, but there is no room for this. If bigger children are busy with activities that do not have to be smaller, there is no smaller place to play separately (I am referring to the composite groups). The Pre-school Children's Institution Act provides for 20 children in the garden group, 14 children in the manger and 18 children in the composite group. On the proposal of the child care centre, the municipality or city administration has the right to increase the number of children in the crèches group by up to two, in the kindergarten group by up to four and in the composite group by up to two, if there are conditions necessary for the development of the child. The relief was expected from the new health protection requirements, but they surprised even more limited space requirements. The government regulation "Health protection requirements for the land, buildings, premises, furnishings, indoor climate and upkeep of pre-school children' is in some respects a step back from existing requirements. For each child and adult, the game room provides at least two square metres of space instead of 2.5 to 3.5 square metres. The furniture might fit in the room, but the kids don't want to fit in anymore. In addition, the deadline for meeting the new requirements is only 2030 for children's institutions with a training permit in force in 2010. However, it is our duty to ensure a level playing field for all children in kindergarten, because the place fee is the same for all. If children have to fight for their place in space cubs day after day, it is a plantbed of diseases, stress and aggression, and it suffers from the effectiveness of education and training. We have four questions for the Minister of Social Affairs according to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. I'll read them. What are the standards for premises to be complied with in a kindergarten that is currently authorised before 1 January 2010 if the old regulation is not in force and there is time for a new one to apply until 2030? What criteria must be taken into account by local authorities and child welfare bodies who have the right to increase the number of children prescribed by law? What criteria must the Health Board guide the assessment of children's room conditions during such a period of lawlessness? For what reasons has the size of a two-room group reduced to two square meters per child? When half the surface is covered by furniture, children have no place to sit or walk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U10	Thank you. I beg the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Since all the questions were well read, let's go straight to the answer. The premises of all children's institutions, both active and new, which start to operate must comply with the requirements laid down by the Government of the Republic in Regulation No 131 of 6 October 2011. According to the implementing provisions of that Regulation, a child institution built on the basis of a construction project submitted before 14 October 2011 for the purpose of applying for a building permit shall also be deemed to comply if it meets the requirements in force at the time when the construction project was drawn up for the children's institutions. This is a compromise provision. Both real opportunities and resources were taken into account when making this decision. It is worth noting that the legal order applied the health protection requirements even before the restoration of independence and, of course, after that, before Regulation No 131 entered into force. This means that there has been no legal vacuum with regard to kindergarten requirements. Let it be clarified that there were no practical problems with compliance with the standards established in 1999, as the child's area requirements for crèches were in line with those in force before 1985. Therefore, all children's institutions operating under a training permit before 2010 as well as those which submitted a construction project for coordination in 2010 were granted a building permit or started building a child's institution in 2010. The requirements also apply to new or substantially reconstructed childcare facilities. Answer to question two. The Pre-school Children's Institution Act sets limits to increasing the number of children in the group by two, i.e. 14+2 children, the number of children in the group may also be increased by two, i.e. 18+2 children in the group and 20+4 children in the kindergarten group. The increase in the number of children in groups under the Pre-school Children's Institution Act must be carried out in accordance with the law and in the light of the rights of the child, only in a way that promotes the development of children, i.e. when it is necessary and the conditions necessary for the development of the child are guaranteed. From the health protection aspect, the health risks and safe conditions for the development of children cannot be assessed by a child institution or body without a risk analysis. The regulation has been established by Decree No 61 of the Minister of Social Affairs of 24 September 2010 entitled "Health protection requirements for health promotion and a daily plan for pre-school children', which aims to develop a healthy lifestyle in children's institutions, to maintain and strengthen the health of the child, to reduce ill health and to create conditions for every child for appropriate development. This legislation fully regulates the basics of health promotion, which can be taken into account by both the board and the local authority when deciding the limit. Answer to question three. The Health Board shall act only within the limits of the powers conferred on it by law and shall supervise compliance with Government Regulation No 131 of 2011 on the basis of the provisions of the Public Health Act. In conjunction with the requirements of the legal order, the provider of that service must also assess the safety of the service it provides when providing a service in a child institution. Regulation No 131 does not regulate requirements based on generally accepted good construction practice and expectations to ensure health and safety. In a rapidly changing society and economic space, there are difficulties in creating a common set of rules, and it is therefore desirable to apply more rules of consideration and agreement that take into account resources and protect vulnerable groups. The buildings, facilities and premises of children's institutions must meet the requirements laid down in the Construction Act, as well as the health protection requirements laid down in Government Regulation No 131. Among other things, the children's institution must comply with the requirements laid down in Decree No 14 of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications of 2002. The title of this regulation is 'Requirements for the mobility of persons with reduced mobility, vision and hearing in public buildings'. If the legislation is not exhaustive or non-regulated, it is based on § 91 (1) of the Consumer Protection Act. Therefore, in the absence of regulatory requirements for services, the safety of the service will be assessed in the light of a number of standards. Answer to question four. Paragraph 6 (6) of Decree No 131 of the Government of the Republic states that there must be at least two square metres of floor space for each child and adult in the gambling and sleeping room. This number of square meters has been prepared by consensus in a broad-based working group, including the Estonian Association of Municipalities, the Estonian Association of Cities, the Tallinn Education Board, the Association of Nurses, the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, the Estonian Association of kindergartens, the Estonian Association of Children's Elders and the Estonian Association of Masters of Early Education. The proposal of the Tallinn Kindergartens' Association has added a clarification that adults in the room should also be taken into account when calculating the area. Where a group has more than one room for manoeuvre for different activities, the calculation shall be based on their total area. The playroom and the sleeping room may be connected, but there must be at least four square meters per child. The area standard provided for in the Regulation shall be the minimum. If a pre-school child care provider finds that children have little space to play, he or she has the right and the possibility to increase the area. When furnishing the space, the holder of the pre-school childcare facility shall take into account that the furnishings must be safe, in accordance with the intended use of the premises and correspond to the age and number of children in the group. In particular, the interests of children must be taken into account, a safe environment for children's health must be ensured and the conditions for appropriate development must be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U12	Thank you very much. We go to questions and answers. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U13	Thank you. Paragraph 6 (6) of that regulation states that there must be at least two square metres of floor space per child and per adult in the play and sleep space and that the play and sleep space may be connected if there are at least four square metres of floor space per child. This provision will only apply in 2030 in the case of children's institutions which had a training permit valid on 1 January 2010. This is set out in the implementing provisions (§ 13 (2)). Then why doesn't that apply to them now? What are these childcare facilities supposed to be based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U14	Thank you. Children's institutions must be guided by all the acts I have read. That's one. Let's just say it's pretty simple, let's get ahead of the tree and red. All childcare establishments built before 2010 had existing projects. These projects had to meet the requirements in force at the time of construction. These requirements have been similar. I referred to the 1985 requirements and to the changes that have taken place since then. This means that all children's institutions that have received a training permit are considered to be in conformity and may have a child's establishment on their premises. The Pre-school Children's Institution Act sets maximum limits for the number of children in one group. Very simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U15	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The first request for information has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U16	The next question will be the question of questions about the health of young people in Estonia submitted on 17 April 2012 by members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korbi, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali and Enn Eesmaa. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. I'm asking for a speech chair on behalf of the inquisitors, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U17	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Our inquiry concerns the health of young people in Estonia. I'm trying not to be too pedantic with numbers. According to the Ministry of Defence, only 36% of the young men invited to join the army in 2011 proved to be eligible for military service, and a further 1.4% were found to be limited. Last year, the Medical Commission recognised 34.5% and 27.4% as temporarily unfit for military service. In 2009 and 2010, 41% and 39,8% of citizens under the profession were declared eligible and limited to military service. Thus, within three years, the share of young men suitable for military service in the country has decreased from 41% to 38%, which is likely to indicate a deterioration in young people's health. Low mobility and unbalanced and irregular diet are the main causes of youth obesity, which could lead to cardiovascular disease in adulthood. The poor health of young men suitable for military service is worrying, given that for several years now neither the state nor local authorities are obliged to finance children's sport activities. In particular, the cut-off scheme reduced the revenue base of municipalities, which was mitigated by the abolition of their obligation to finance youth sport. Unfortunately, this obligation was not assumed by the State either. Although there are municipalities in Estonia that are able to subsidise sports activities of children and young people to some extent, there are also municipalities that simply do not have this possibility. Also, public health in general and young people's health are particularly concerned with the issue of child poverty, which has recently become more relevant. After all, it is obvious that a child who is forced to cope with 61 euros a month has been deprived not only of full food but also of the opportunity to rest normally and participate in a sports circle if there is any need to pay for it. In this regard, we have six questions for the Minister for Social Affairs, to which we are awaiting an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U18	Thank you. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! Let's go over the questions. Question 1: 'How problematic do you consider the worsening health condition of young Estonian men as Minister of Social Affairs to be? ' I don't want to agree with that statement. Every year, the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs carry out a population-wide survey of health assessments. In 2011, 82% of people aged 15 to 19 and 79% of those aged 20 to 29 rated their health good or very good. At the same time, the population average was 50%. Young people value their health better than older people. When compared to previous years, it is not obvious that subjective assessments have made human health worse. Health Behavior studies also show that in the last eight years, less than a third, or 29 to 31%, of men aged 16 to 24, have had some long-term health problems. It hasn't changed. If you look at the data since 2000, it is clear that fewer smokers are among young men, for example, and that the frequency of alcohol consumption has decreased, which is undeniably positive. It is important that the number of people who often drink alcohol is reduced. In the case of smoking, it is important to bear in mind that the share of smokers among young men is the lowest among men. Since 2002, the share of everyday smokers among young men has decreased from 41% to 33%. In addition, young men are more physically active; they are even the most active population group. 30% of young men aged 16 to 24 confirm that they exercise at least four times a week. Among them are less overweight and obese than older men. Injury deaths play a major role in the development of men's life expectancy. As a positive trend, the incidence of injury-related health problems in Estonia was reduced by 6647 in the years 2008 to 2010. Thus, the overall assessment that young men's health is deteriorating cannot be made. Let us go to the second question on military service. It should certainly be noted that poor health is not the only reason why men cannot enter the service. There are other circumstances, such as penalties for intentionally committed offences or crimes involving narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances, as well as cases where the person has reached 28 years of age during the period of grace, etc. Looking specifically at those who have been declared ineligible, 27% were declared ineligible in 2009, 24.6% in 2010 and 27% again in 2011. The indicator has fluctuated between 24% and 27% over three years, but no increase can be seen. Question 3: "Do and to what extent the health data of this population group reflect the general health situation in Estonia? " Some conclusions can certainly be drawn. The health indicators for young people broadly reflect the general health situation of the entire population, while, as you mention in your inquiry, men are at greater risk of developing cardiovascular diseases. Looking at the concerns, the main avoidable cause of first-time illness for young men aged 15 to 24 years is just injuries. Studies have shown that the thrill is greatest among young men who take more risks and are therefore more often involved in accidents. Other risk behaviours are also more frequent, which in turn increases the risk of injury and poisoning. Question 4: Do and how do the above data compare with the indicators of child poverty? ' The relationship between poverty and health indicators has not been studied in detail, but the overall impact of household poverty on the health and health behaviour of its members has been examined. For example, sociologist Avo Drumm of the University of Tartu has found that poverty reduces the chances of engaging in healthy lifestyles, such as health nutrition and physical activity. He has also found that there is less access to health care for the poor and that they tend to restrict their drug consumption, that they also suffer more psychosomatic disorders, and that they are at greater risk of taking drugs. Question 5: "What measures should you consider to be in order to remedy this situation? " Quite simply, all healthy lifestyles. Creating a lifestyle creates prerequisites for a longer and fuller life. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have listed activities up to 2020 in the population health development plan. This year, we have started to draw up a new implementation plan for the years 2013 to 2016, where, for example, in the area of health behaviour, the priority is to make a greater contribution to the problem of overweight among children and adults. In particular, healthy diets are promoted and the availability of healthy food is improved. The implementation plan shall be designed on the basis of the assessments, attitudes and needs of the target groups and shall focus on available resources. We have involved representatives and decision-makers from several sectors and sectors and, of course, all target groups and stakeholders in the preparation of the implementation plan. We're hoping we can finish the implementation plan nicely. Question 6: "Have you discussed the health issues of young people in Estonia with the Minister of Education and Research? ' Naturally, the cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research is indispensable when making the population health development plan. The people of the Ministry of Education and Research are on the steering committee of the development plan and are involved in several programmes. As the coordinator of our development plan, we will monitor the implementation of the planned activities there. On the other hand, it can be said that we participated in the preparation of a new national curriculum for both comprehensive school and upper secondary school, and we tried to contribute and input to the completion of the curriculum. We are very pleased that most of our comments have been reflected, especially on the health education side. Based on the needs of implementing the new curriculum, the National Institute for Health Development, supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs, has produced guidance materials for teachers on nutrition, movement and sexual education. It is clear that this work must take place in schools on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U20	Please, Yana Toom, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U21	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I didn't get it. When you answered the first question, you spoke about studies on people's self-esteem. How can you compare how a young person appreciates his or her health and how is his or her health assessed by a medical committee? How is it possible that the research data you have provided, for example, does not correlate with the data we see when the medical committee assesses whether a person is fit to serve in the military?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U22	Thank you. In my opinion, this data can be compared quite nicely. When we look at people aged 15 to 19, 82% of them value their health or are very good. Young men who did not qualify for military service were about a quarter. In fact, these figures are not very far apart. When we go into the details and look at the reasons for being unfit for active service, mental and behavioural disorders account for 26% of them, musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 22%, and nervous system diseases 11%. Speaking of a subjective assessment, let us take the example of mental and behavioural disorders and nervous system diseases and look at those cases where a young man feels that he or she has a musculoskeletal or connective tissue disease. There are 22% of these cases. So this ratio of 20 to 80 pretty much matches. Of course, the way they appreciate their spiritual health when they go into military service is another issue. I think these ratios are pretty well correlated. Young people's assessment and actual failure to serve in the Defence Forces are of quite the same order of magnitude. We have heard different stories from the media about how young men sometimes avoid or try to avoid military service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U23	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Regular, warm and healthy food is certainly important for young people's health. Do you personally think that a nationally funded warm school lunch at upper secondary school could improve the health performance of young people? Studies conducted after warm food had been provided to students until the end of the ninth grade showed that young people had started eating healthier. Warm school food caused this reaction. Do you think that if warm school food were also guaranteed in upper secondary school, could it improve these indicators? Right now, it might be the only hot food a day for some kids.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U25	Thank you. A healthy diet, including eating warm food, is certainly essential for the developing organism, regardless of whether the student is in primary school. The student's body also thrives during upper secondary school. If it is possible to provide warm food, it must be done. I wouldn't be having a debate about what kind of resources to do that. But in response to the question (you asked from a health point of view), I say that, of course, warm food is healthy. Not only for adolescence, but also for an adult, especially when accompanied by a proper selection of vegetables.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U26	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Some time ago, local authorities were deprived of their obligation to finance sport at the level of the law. They have a chance, but there's no obligation. The state took on this area, but the economic situation is as it is, and there is no means to do so. Do you personally think it is time to restore this responsibility on the part of the local authorities to take this into account in their budgets and development plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U28	Thank you. Personally, I think that any local government leader could be so responsible for himself or for everyone living in the municipality's territory, especially for young people, in order to guarantee sports opportunities. The type of sport to finance is, of course, up to the municipal council. Young people practice a wide variety of sports. The exercise can also be done without a very large investment by the family. If, for example, the municipality has been able to establish trails and playgrounds and to ensure the existence of sports bases, then the municipality has already created quite a few opportunities to engage in sport. But above all, the municipality should ensure that there are opportunities for exercise. Forcefully, forcefully, it must be very difficult. In particular, the municipality must offer a certain base and it can be said that people are involved in sport.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U29	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In the 1970s, the war commissariat in Tartu was in quite a lot of trouble, as for several years the medical commission had declared the children of almost all the employees of the University of Tartu unfit for military service. Conclusions were drawn from this and almost everyone was eligible for military service the following year. At the time, the demands were quite strict, but the number of Estonian students was never more than 20%, and the percentage of unfit ones in Estonia was higher than in the rest of the Soviet Union. Has anyone in Estonia studied, for example, whether the eligibility for military service is related to the level of education of the family?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U31	Thank you. I believe that the Defence Resources Agency has an overview of the level of education young men will be trained. I think if you asked the Secretary of Defense for this, you'd get pretty accurate data. I don't have that information on me here, but if you can't get it from anywhere else, we'll try asking the Defense Resources Department ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U32	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have been discussing in this Chamber that local authorities are currently not obliged to create sports opportunities for children and adolescents. Although I assure you, they certainly have a wish for it. Good drafts prepared by both the Social Democrats and the Centre Party have also been dealt with in this Chamber. They provide for the exemption from the special preferential tax on services related to sport and the possibility for undertakings to promote sport. How do you feel about these draft laws, and how do you feel about the fact that entrepreneurs are determined to contribute more to both sport and health?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U34	Thank you. I take a very positive view of the fact that entrepreneurs have seen this opportunity and considered it necessary to support sport. As far as the special preferential tax is concerned, I am of the opinion that each person can decide for himself what he does with his own money. If a person wants to go to the gym, please, go to the gym. If a person wants to buy walking sticks, please, buy them. If anyone wants to go to the swimming pool, please, he can do it. My simple and completely personal view has long been that a person has to be paid a decent salary so that he can choose what kind of exercise he has to deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U35	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few days ago, we received information that a number of psychotropic drugs were being withdrawn from the Russian Federation's pharmacies. I know the use of methadone, for example, is completely forbidden in the Russian Federation, but we use it as a drug. I would like to ask in this connection how often we have a review of the lists of psychotropic drugs that can be bought at a pharmacy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U37	Thank you. The regulation of pharmacies is very strict and precise, and we have very strict supervision of pharmacies. You mentioned methadone. Methadone is generally used in substitution therapy, which is also shared by authorised bodies. A debate took place in the Government Committee on Drug Prevention last week. We discussed, among other things, the issue of substitution treatment. We, or at least I, believe that border control should be so much more effective that we can still retrieve illegal goods from the Russian Federation. For example, the biggest drug problem among young people in Estonia is fentanyl. There are undoubtedly very, very many deaths of fentanyl in Estonia. If we sum up all the drug deaths, most of them are caused by fentanyl or its derivatives. Fentanyl came to Estonia at the time across the eastern border. Here we have no comparison with either the southern neighbours or the northern neighbours. The border should certainly be better controlled, especially with regard to narcotics and psychotropic substances. Then perhaps there is a greater hope that the health of young men in Estonia will not be damaged by such terrible poisons as fentanyl, which are many times stronger than heroin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U38	Thank you. Just in case, I would remind you that every member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question. Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The second inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U39	The third question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Aadu Musta, Jüri Ratas, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Valeri Korbi and Marika Tuus-Laul on 19 April 2012 regarding the financing of the assistant medical system. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. I ask Viktor Vassilyev to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U40	Madam President! Mr. Minister! As early as 15 January 2011, the amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act, which gave students studying as doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives the right to provide health services under the guidance and responsibility of a healthcare professional of the same profession within the scope of the acquired profession, i.e., as we say in a simplified manner, they were granted the right to work as assistant doctors. However, public funding was not created for this purpose. This means that students would have wanters this year maybe 300 (these are fourth and fifth-year medical students), but there were 40 places last year and this year there are 120. This means that students are looking for opportunities, but they are scarce. In this regard, nine members of the Central Party Group have questions to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U41	Thank you. I ask the Social Minister of the Chair, Hanno Pevkuri, to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Thank you for the opportunity to discuss the topic again with the doctor. The first question: 'How necessary and possible do you consider the proposal to finance the employment of students from the state budget under the guidance and responsibility of a health care professional within the framework of the profession being acquired? " It would certainly be nice to be able to provide additional opportunities from the state budget. Internships show that hospitals pay the doctors a fee. We also plan to apply from the state budget for money, not for next year, but for the next year. The question is whether or not it will receive support. In any case, the auxiliary medical system has been very well implemented. Certainly, as you mentioned in your inquiry, there is a prospect of expansion. The second question: "Was the legal regulation of the work opportunities of an assistant doctor also the provision of public funding at stake? " In March of this year, we set up a round table with representatives of students, hospitals, the Medical Association and the Health Insurance Fund. This round table found that if there is any way to find more in the state budget, it is worth doing so. So far, it's been financed from the health insurance budget, but it's not that money coming from the state budget from where else. It comes as a special purpose. The third question: 'How effective do you consider the auxiliary medical system set up in 2011 to be? ' I'm just saying, very effective. I believe that the opportunity for young people to communicate with an Estonian hospital at the end of the fourth or fifth course is very, very necessary. Question 4: "How do you think the assistant doctor system should be improved so that all those who wish to work in Estonia can work as an assistant doctor and do not leave their home country because of lack of opportunities? ' As far as I know, 138 or even more jobs have been planned for this year from January to December, even though you mentioned 120. Some of the students are still at work. After the first year of work, the hospitals raised the following comments on the system during the debate. They do not have a good overview of the level of medical students, a vague understanding of the nature of the assistant doctor and the purpose of his work, problems with formalisation and pay. To solve these problems, we prepared a document describing the work of doctors, which should facilitate the implementation of the work of doctors and shed a more accurate light on everyday issues. A similar guide is coming for family doctors. We are trying to improve this regulation. We are also trying to prepare for changes in the legal environment in the Ministry, which would give students the opportunity to obtain the temporary health professional code. This has also been the result of negotiations with young people. This would provide an opportunity, within the limits of the competence they have acquired by then, to write out recipes, for example, and officially enter data into databases. They would also take greater responsibility for what they say to the patient and for what the health system communicates. This is a prerequisite for the system to provide a better overview of the activities of current doctors. In other words, the activities take place at all levels, from the hospital level to the ministry. In any case, we are moving forward with this system so that young people have the opportunity to work as an assistant doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U43	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Whether these places are 120 or 138, I've been talking to medical students who claim to be few. Each year, a few dozen students go to Finland as an assistant doctor, where they say this is very well organised, paid well and paid by the state. Of course, those who have gone to work as an assistant doctor in Finland should be plain fools when they come back. We've been talking a lot lately about the flow of doctors. In my opinion, it is extremely important to create an opportunity for students to work here as an assistant doctor and also to finance it nationally, but not only from the Health Insurance Fund, as this would be at the expense of financing health services.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U45	Thank you. I'm gonna have to argue with you guys a little bit about this. Students would be stupid to use your expression if they didn't come back because then they'd be in the middle of their studies. After all, we are talking about students in basic education who work as an assistant doctor. This means that if they go to Finland as an assistant doctor and stay there, they will not complete their studies, which means that they will not get a doctor's invitation, they will not be able to continue their residency. So in that sense, they're stupid if they don't come back. But what happens next is the free choice of these young people. Our task and opportunity are to motivate them to remain working in Estonia. It is worth remembering that two years ago, it was not possible to work as an assistant doctor in Estonia. In the first year, there were a few dozen places for it, over a hundred this year. We will grow every year, and so will the opportunities of young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U46	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The issue of questioning is the financing of the assistant medical system. I have a direct question: will there be anything from the state budget next year to count on this system, whether or not funds will be raised on this line?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U48	Thank you. The state budget will provide the Health Insurance Fund with an additional EUR 40.50 million next year. I don't know the exact amounts. Within this money, hospitals have the means to raise the pay of doctors and new treatment cases. If they hire deputies for this money, it'll only make me happy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U49	Thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The third question has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U50	The fourth question is the inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu, Viktor Vasiliyev, Olga Sõtnik, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Valeri Korbi, Mailis Reps, Ester Tuiksoo and Yana Toomi on 2 May 2012 regarding the problems of the health information system. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. I ask Viktor Vassilyev to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U51	Madam President! Good minister! As early as 2008, the first applications of the health information system, or digital history, started. The aim was, of course, noble: to improve the quality of treatment and to increase patient satisfaction. Now, with this satisfaction, the years have gone, but the health information system, or the CIS, still doesn't work as it should. The problem is that hospitals use different programmes and applications (allegedly there are four software applications) which are not well aligned. If the doctor transfers the patient's data to his hospital application, the health information system will not be able to access it until the medical record is closed. Consequently, if, in the meantime, a second treatment facility or another doctor is desired, the data is not available. This whole story has come to the point that patients are asking the doctor for a medical record on paper and then running around with this paper. It looks like it happens sometimes in a store where the computer system strikes. The buyer's got the goods on the counter and his wallet in his hand, but the cashier won't take the money, and then they'll wait 15 minutes until the system works. Eight members of the Centre Party Group have four questions about health information system problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U52	Thank you. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Let's talk about the health information system. The first question: 'How effective do you consider your cooperation between health care institutions to be when patients get their medical history from one institution to another? ' It is worth recalling that the honourable Riigikogu has adopted a law that obliges health service providers to transmit data to the health information system. When we look at the factual situation, we see that all hospitals operating in Estonia are also transmitting epic crises to the health information system. The problem is, as you mentioned, that hospitals have different levels of readiness to interface with and transmit data to the health information system. The eHealth Foundation has established standards. Whatever the hospital's information system is, it must interface with the health information system and the data must be received there. When you talk about the patient and that epic crises, including digital images, should move faster between hospitals, here is a very simple recommendation for you and for all patients: ask your doctor for it! The amount of data in the health information system is increasing, but patients could be more active, so that the health information system, as well as the data on the patient portal, improves so that we know that the system works effectively and that if we go from one hospital to another, our medical data will also be visible there. The second question: "How do you think patients' treatment data should be resolved if they do not reach the necessary doctor on time through the information system? ' The answer is the same as I just told you: Patients must demand more. If you want a second opinion, it makes sense that you tell the first doctor to put your data into the health information system because you are going to ask for a second opinion. It is worth remembering that it is the duty of a doctor and a hospital. Ensuring that the hospital's information system is compatible with the health information system is a legal obligation for hospitals. If we look at time frames, it is worth recalling that the time for submitting data on the health information system is as follows: the data on the document on the provision of outpatient healthcare must be submitted to the Health Information System within one working day of the validation of the document by the healthcare professional and the data on the provision of fixed health care should be provided to the Health Information System within five working days. So here are the very clear frames. There is no direct obligation to enter the data on the same day, but if you go to another hospital the next day, an outpatient visit should be visible in the digital location. The third question: 'What analysis did the Ministry base itself on, in particular, on such a health information system and would it not have been cheaper to combine the four different software used by health institutions? ' Here the answer is quite short. A number of studies and analyses were carried out to prepare the vision for the digital health story, including Praxis, Ernst & Young and PricewaterhouseCoopers. We know that there are 12 information systems for health care providers in Estonia, four of them are used in hospitals and the other eight are used in institutions providing general medical, specialist and dental care. Health institutions have all the means to choose their own system. As far as the health information system is concerned, health institutions are able to choose the appropriate software for their own needs, which meets all legal requirements and interfaces with the health information system. We knowingly did not want to choose the path that Britain tried to take, for example, where the development of the so-called central system took place. We said that every healthcare provider is free to choose their own system, but this system must be connected to the health information system. Actually, these systems are connected. Question 4: "How much does the Ministry of Social Affairs intend to invest in increasing user comfort in the further development of the system? ' A number of developments are already underway for the central system and portals to increase ease of use in data transmission and use. For example, the introduction of a digital seal in the Central System allows family doctors to forward documents to the health information system more quickly. The e-visit project, the so-called direct referral project, allows for faster access to medical care for the relevant indication and makes the communication of doctors more operational. Medical certificates save time for doctors because they don't have to fill out different evidence on several occasions. The Riigikogu recently approved query services for the Social Insurance Board to determine disability and permanent incapacity for work. The e-Ambulance is also on-line. eHealth solutions must be seen and the investments made in their development should be considered in parallel with health and social spending as a whole. The health information system is primarily designed to improve the treatment process, i.e. the communication between the doctor and the patient. So there's a lot of things going on. I very much hope that they will provide a very clear final output, which means that the patient will get a better overview of the system. The technical parameters of the health information system are not at all poor. It is more a question of how doctors and patients, when interacting with each other, can achieve the greatest possible amount of data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U54	Thank you. Question from Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Minister, the technique is a difficult thing, information technology is particularly difficult. For four years, doctors and patients have been wrestling with the health information system. You repeated that the patient must demand that his data be entered by the doctor into the health information system. I ask you: if such a large-scale system was created, could it not really be established a regulation with certain requirements, how digital history must be met, and where control measures would be included? Do patients really have to tell their doctor how to do their job? Similarly, we could say that a person must demand that his or her data be entered in the land register, in the business register and in other registers. There should still be control mechanisms. Don't you have them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U56	Thank you. It is. I've said many times from this remote control that there are coercive methods. I have not considered it right to punish healthcare providers in one way or another. Although I have considered it possible and right to use various so-called carrots or stimulators, we call them that, to motivate health service providers to transmit more data. One of these is what was accepted in the Riigikogu in the week before or a little earlier in the year. If the family doctor formalises health information in the health information system, he or she will no longer have to make an additional description of his or her medical condition on paper or electronically. It's a clear motivation. Hopefully, all of this will produce results. If one system as large as the health information system is built up with all its outpatient and stationary data, it cannot be assumed that when the x date arrives, all health data will be electronic. Oh, no, far from it. First, there's history, second, there's new data. It makes sense that all of this will occur in time. If, for example, I compare two outpatient epidemics with the health information system in 2010 and 2011, I see that when the outpatient epidemic crisis of 394135 was reported in 2010, there was already a double increase in 2011 in 785314. I very much hope that it will continue to do the same. Growth, not so great, has also been the case for inpatient and day care epidemics. The biggest increase has been in the case of outpatient epidemics. I really hope this continues. When I said that the patient had to insist, it was meant rather in a good way, not as a so-called coercive method. I believe that together, it is finally possible to achieve the result that all of our data is in the health information system, that the patient is the owner of this data, and that if he wants to shut down this data in the digital file, he will also have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U57	Thank you very much. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The fourth inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U58	The next is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Anvelt, Kalev Kotkas, Helmen Küti, Mart Mere, Marianne Mikko, Sven Mikeri, Heljo Pikhofi, Indrek Saare, Rannar Vasiliyev, Jaan Õunapuu, Urve Palo, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Jaak Allik, Eiki Nestor, Kalvi Tõm, Kajar Lember and Rein Randver on 16 April 2012 about the continuing increase in the number of violent deaths in the first months of 2012. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. I ask Andres Anvelt to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U59	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 17 Members of the Social Democratic Party Group are periodically concerned about violence in Estonia. At the beginning of January, we asked about the tendencies of violent deaths in 2011. At the time, the Minister pointed out that statistics could be viewed for three years and that the situation was not so bad in this light. Unfortunately, in the first quarter of 2012, sunrise was not particularly observed in this grey zone. Thus, the number of road deaths increased almost twice in the first quarter of this year compared to the previous two years: from 14 to 21. The number of fires did not increase compared to 2011, but it should be noted that there was a tragic accident in Lääne County in 2011 when ten people died in the fire. If the victims of this accident were to be deducted from the total number, it would appear that there has still been an increase. The number of killings and murders did not increase significantly compared to previous years, but the number of acts of violence has continued to increase. There may be several reasons for this, and there may be a role to play in simply better registration. However, the second figure, which we have asked the Minister of the Interior of the House before, is of serious concern. This is a large number of drug deaths, which the Minister of Social Affairs briefly spoke of for possible reasons in this Chamber today. In our view, all this suggests that there have been some changes in society in recent years, and institutions dealing with internal security and security, such as the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board, have probably not been able to keep up with these changes to the extent necessary. The continued rapid increase in the number of violent deaths indicates that there may be significant shortcomings in ensuring internal security and that security achieved in previous years, at least seeming and fragile, can quickly start to crumble if we do nothing together, both at executive level and in this legislative body. That is why we have asked the Minister for the Interior a number of questions about all the measures taken by his Ministry in this area. I have a request to the Minister that he also read the questions in response to his inquiry, so it is better for the delegates to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U60	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for your inquiry! Of course, I'm willing to read the questions. The first question: "Do you and the Ministry under your leadership continue to believe that the increase in violent deaths in recent years is only of statistical significance and that there have actually been no dangerous developments over several years? ' Statistics never justify any life lost as a result of violent incidents, accidents, or fires, but this shows a general trend and the continuity of the country in dealing with the problem. However, in order to reach objective conclusions, we need to analyse a longer period than the first few months of 2012. As I have said in reply to previous enquiries, the experts recommend that we look at at least one year, but in order to find out the general trend, three years and the average of them, which can be drawn from more far-reaching conclusions, are important. However, if we look at a slightly shorter time, as of 31 May 2012, for example, the number of killings and murders in Estonia has decreased by 17% compared to 2011. Also, serious health damage is falling by 39%. On the basis of this short period, we can say that we are seeing a trend for the better. It is clear, however, that there is concern about the number of domestic killings caused by disputes in close relationships. When it comes to fire deaths, which are out of the range of violent deaths (I am very happy to answer your question, good heirs, more generally speaking of accident deaths), the number of deaths in the fire is currently 15% lower than in 2011. The number of traffic deaths was higher in the first quarter. However, there are significant, hopefully positive trends here in the last month and a half, which I will talk about later. 132 road deaths were recorded in 2008. That was the best result of the last 50 years. In 2009, further progress was made on 100 road deaths (the latter had occurred in 1946). The average of the last three years is about 100 road deaths. But it's clear that we have to move on. In order to reduce the number of fatalities in road accidents, as we have talked about here several times, it is not enough to merely monitor traffic, which is a component and which is part of the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. Of course, we will do our utmost to make traffic surveillance even more effective than it has been so far. We're about to take steps that I'm about to talk about. But the other components are just as important. This concerns road users, vehicles, the state of traffic in terms of the traffic environment, as well as traffic rules. Of course, it is important that all five components be contributed, which should ultimately improve road safety in Estonia and reduce road deaths, but this is not happening quickly. Traffic surveillance is likely to be the quickest, most effective step in this list. Now to the second and third questions: 'What specific analyses have been carried out and have there ever been drawn up in your area of government to explain this situation, and what are their results? What steps is the Ministry of the Interior taking to stabilise the situation? We ask for a concrete overview of the measures taken by each sub-category of violent death (including drug deaths) mentioned in the inquiry. ' I will answer these questions together. I will try to be brief, but exhaustive. I'm going through different types of accident deaths. Killings first. The analysis carried out in 2011 showed that 21% of the total number of killings are those for which the killer and the killer were or had been in a close relationship, and 70% of killings and murders are driven by greater domestic strife and conflicts, or by a common drinking mix. When we talk about close relationships involving one fifth of the murders and killings, the activity of the primary responder is very important. The primary reacter and processor must understand the nature of the problem. This means that it is important to increase the empathy of police officers, especially when dealing with the victims of close relationship violence. To this end, it is necessary to clarify the nature of the relationship between violence and the close relationship between police officers, prosecutors and all law enforcement authorities. Several training sessions will take place on this subject. By the end of the year, the Police and Border Guard Board will also prepare an analysis of cases of close relationship violence with serious consequences, which will be a learning material for law enforcement officers who are exposed to cases of close relationship violence. It is clear that preventive action, which means paying attention to these specific families, is important to combat close-up violence. Only the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board will be short. The contribution of social authorities is also very important. We've started negotiations with the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Police and Border Guard Board has launched these negotiations to find ways to involve social representatives in this issue. The police have also started information work at municipal level, involving local government officials. In the past, such systematic cooperation has not been carried out or negotiated with representatives of other sectors. It is clear that this issue falls within the remit of several ministries. I've been talking about traffic surveillance for a while. It is clear that our priority is to reduce accidents, including road deaths. This also means an analysis of the number of infringements detected. In 2011, the detection of traffic offences increased by 5%. A large number of infringements were detected in more than 2010, including those committed under the influence of alcohol, as well as those committed by speeding and drivers without the right to drive. The most important thing is to identify offenders, especially in order to prevent road accidents with serious consequences. To this end, in cooperation with the Road Administration, which falls within the remit of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it seeks to influence the attitudes and behaviour of road users. Very important, I think, a change in traffic surveillance was introduced in April this year. The Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board agreed on concrete steps in cooperation, which will be written by today's media. These steps are very easily summarised as follows: The volume of traffic surveillance will increase in 2012. This has required changes in police work processes. More resources will be devoted to monitoring. They will also switch to an electronic field procedure by the end of this year. This represents an annual saving of about 70,000 people hours, which can also be used for traffic surveillance. Punishment policy has been reviewed. This year, along with the prosecutor's office, which remains under the administration of the Ministry of Justice, a trend has been taken towards more effective implementation of confiscation. We want to make clear progress there. Last year only five vehicles were confiscated from drunk drivers in Estonia, which will certainly not satisfy us. The legal possibilities for this are greater. It is a question of implementing the law, which will also be done more effectively this year. In 2012, auxiliary police will be recruited further. More police officers specialise in traffic surveillance. Further procedures will be reviewed to ensure uniform application as a whole in the case of offences committed primarily by those who do not use security equipment, which can very often result in death. This concerns, for example, seat belts, cyclists, reflectors. As I have said here many times, in 2011, most of the dead pedestrians did not use safety equipment, or reflectors. In figures, this means that 16 of the 19 pedestrians who died did not use retro-reflectors. Drug addiction. This is a very clearly cross-governance issue. There is a demand side and a supply side. In April, a government committee on drug prevention was set up, which has become active today. The main objective of this government committee is to bring together all the forces that are already in the process of combating drug addiction in Estonia, either in terms of prevention or in terms of reducing supply and demand for drugs. These authorities, institutions and representatives of the civil society, as well as municipalities, are very numerous. Their actions need to be coordinated at a higher level and more targeted. This, of course, means more attention to the prevention side in particular, how to reduce drug demand and the damage caused by it. Of course, we cannot get over or around almost 15,000 drug addicts who are in Estonia and who also need to be dealt with constantly by rehabilitation and other activities. Several steps have been planned here too. A system of early warning of new synthetic drugs was recently launched in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board, the Tax and Customs Board, the Medicines Agency and the Institute for Health Development, which also leads to a new level of information exchange on new drugs entering the market and whose aim is, among other things, to reduce drug overdoses. As you know, 85% of overdoses of drugs in Estonia have been caused by fentanyl, which is a highly potent synthetic drug. It is clear that targeted activities to reduce fentanyl's share of the Estonian drug market are important. Finally, an analysis has been carried out by the Police and Border Guard Board on overdoses and repeated drug users, which has analysed the background of these individuals for the first time. The conclusion of this analysis is very simply that quite a large number of drug users have low self-esteem, they have not received very much education, their social cohesion is weak and it is clear that prevention is not easy in this particular target group. However, the Institute for Health Development has taken a number of steps and work on this target group must certainly be continued. Above all, efforts must be made to reduce the suffering of loved ones. There is certainly a need to consider the possibilities for reducing drug overdose deaths by new medical means. Now for the death of fire. I think that prevention in relation to fire deaths has brought significant success in Estonia. Compared to 2007, the number of deaths has fallen from 164 to 73. The year 2011 you mentioned was special from the point of view that there was then a major fire accident in February. Consequently, the comparison with 2012 cannot be made on a one-sided basis. At the same time, it can be said that no one is at any time protected from such a case, even this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U62	Good minister! I have a suggestion: since, unfortunately, there is no more time for you, perhaps you can shed light on the unanswered issues by answering the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U63	Nice. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U64	We'll get to the questions. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Many thanks for the thorough review! You mentioned that one of the most effective preventive measures to prevent serious road accidents is traffic surveillance. I agree with you in the sense that traffic supervision is a fast and, in a sense, an effective means of preventing serious accidents. But from time to time, it seems to me that it is not the most sustainable, in the sense that its educational effect is not very long-term. I have the question: have you discussed with other institutions and ministries what measures to take to make this educational impact longer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U66	Thank you for your question. Traffic surveillance is an issue that is directly within the remit of the Ministry of the Interior, as road safety is known to be run by the Road Administration. Discussions about traffic continue all the time, and this is also the case with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Our competence is to review traffic surveillance and to make better use of the tools that we are already channeling into traffic surveillance. Our efforts are primarily linked to this. This is what we have been doing since April, and the public has also been well informed about these activities. With regard to measures with a longer-term impact, of course, the Committee on Traffic has different road safety issues on the agenda each time. In the second half of this year, we want to improve visibility, in cooperation with the Road Administration, and not only the visibility of the police, which relates to traffic surveillance, but, above all, the visibility of road users themselves. This mainly concerns light road users, especially pedestrians and cyclists. Last year's most serious problem was precisely with light road users, the last months of the year were very tragic for many light road users. Like I said, they don't use security equipment. It is very dark nights in Estonia, especially in winter months. There were too many tragic accidents last year. We want to make light-mobile drivers literally visible to drivers. Several steps will be taken to this end, such as mass security equipment for cyclists and pedestrians. Of course, it is important to have greater awareness of what is being worked for on a daily basis. When it comes to traffic rules, it must be said that Parliament only recently provided its very strong input when the traffic law was revised. In particular, infrastructure, i.e. road maintenance, is particularly relevant to the traffic environment. It is in winter that Estonia has problems with the maintenance of roads in several places. Last year, for example, there was a tragic accident in Hiiumaa, which resulted in the death of three people. This was most likely due to the lack of road maintenance: it was not possible to push the road open to such an extent as to ensure the safety of road users. That is why this tragic incident took place. But this is just one example of many. There are a number of issues that concern the traffic environment as a whole and relate to financial resources. Overall, it has emerged from the discussions in the Committee on Traffic that there is still room for improvement in people's awareness. People don't know what's safe and what's not. Even if, for example, the same simple requirement for security equipment to be used. We have made changes in traffic surveillance this year. Much more rigorously than so far, people who do not use security equipment properly will be punished. The police have largely abandoned the use of oral warning procedures. That's what we're talking about in today's media. As a result, the freed-up supervisory resources are mainly directed to places where serious or fatal road accidents can be prevented. If you are asking what are the biggest problems in traffic right now, there are actually two sides: firstly, the light road users and their visibility, and secondly, the daring driving style, which has ended with many and many deaths. In many cases, it is the younger men who have driven themselves to death, misjudged both their own abilities and their own means of transport, as well as driving conditions. These are the main issues that have been discussed. Training, possible follow-up and refresher training for first licence holders are certainly important. In particular, attention should be paid to those who have received a fresh licence and who do not have so much experience in traffic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U67	Thank you very much. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U68	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I also ask you to answer the fourth and fifth questions. But on question five, I'm gonna put on a little punk if I can. I have been driving around Estonia, and I have been talking to police officers and rescue officers about their last pay drop, which was not really 8%. They themselves have calculated that, given the loss of premiums and everything else, this decrease was about 15%. As Minister of the Interior, what can you tell us when they might even have the hope of reaching pre-masusal levels? I fear that our competitiveness on this market will be greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U69	Thank you! We stayed with the fires. If we compare with 2011, there had been a 15% reduction as of 30 May 2012. There were 40 deaths in the first five months of last year, now 34. It is quite clear that the direction is to further reduce the number of fire deaths, as well as to reduce the number of fires. We have increased the money for prevention, which has increased 63% compared to last year, from EUR 400000 to EUR 650000, which is a significant improvement. I firmly believe that prevention of fire deaths and fires is extremely important. However, at some point we reach this level in some form in Estonia, we are already there, that with general prevention everything is possible. Then we need to move on narrowly, by specific target groups, by trying to reach those who have not received general information. In addition, prevention of accidents must be carried out in cooperation with the private sector. I'll say a few words about that. Last summer, for the first time, I called representatives of the private sector around the round table. I don't think it's ever been done before. The goal was to take every force in our small society to help people get to the point of prevention. Representatives of the companies producing, selling and importing alcohol were present. They were also involved in the distribution of safety messages. We've met several times, these meetings are already regular. Last year, entrepreneurs participated in the summer water safety campaign and in the winter fire safety campaign to raise people's awareness. A few weeks ago, under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, we reached an agreement involving all authorities and the private sector on a single prevention message, as well as common labelling in three areas: water deaths, road deaths and the consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors. All these areas are related to alcohol. The aim of labels and messages is also to give people a clear understanding that when alcohol is consumed, traffic must be avoided and not allowed to enter the water. This label has been agreed, you will see it soon, I think that already already in a number of Estonian retail chains, as product labels, etc. This is a very close cooperation with the private sector. I think it will make a significant contribution to the transmission of this message, to the linking of cause and effect. Not just in the summer, but in all months of the year. Question 4: Have there been any fire deaths this year in the service areas, in the municipalities where you have planned the closure of the rescue teams? If so, are you reviewing the pre-closure analysis prepared by the Rescue Board with a new look? ' In 2012, fire deaths have occurred in two municipalities involved in the restructuring of rescue troops. At the beginning of February, there was an incident in Leisi's village. The second case was in Kobiu village, which is located in the outing area of the Puhja commando. But I repeat, what is the purpose of reorganizing the rescue commandos? This is an increase in the number of commandos providing full service, including life-saving capabilities. The number of such commandos will increase from 41 to 66, i.e. 25 rescue officers will have life-saving capabilities and full service capabilities throughout the year. We will also significantly increase the number of residents in whose place of residence such rescue services can be provided. This is a long-term solution, which simply brings risks and risks together with the opportunities that the state offers. I think that these 72 rescue commandos are now much more thoughtful in Estonia than the commandos were in previous years. This will take better account of where people have settled and of the greatest risks for the emergence of rescue events. Question 5: "What measures have you taken to alleviate budgetary tensions in both the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board in relation to the rapid increase in fuel prices? How much do you think the lack of budgetary resources has affected the sudden increase in the number of violent deaths? ' As I said earlier, in 2011, killings and murders (in particular, they were reported as violent deaths) were the biggest incentive for civil strife and conflicts that arose in many ways during the joint drinking process. I have also replied from this remote control that, as far as fuel prices are concerned, despite everything, there is a very clear principle: challenges must be met and public order must be guaranteed. There will be no unresponsive response to any of the challenges that require police intervention. It is clear that more and more police have to plan their activities, more and more time to plan all activities, as well as money, essentially every euro. Resources must be directed to places where risks and risks are greatest. Budgetary tensions in the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board regarding fuel prices have been reduced by various steps. For example, this year we have acquired new vehicles. Energy and fuel efficiency is an important condition for their acquisition. In 2011, the police obtained 151 new vehicles by tender, with 266 additional vehicles scheduled to be acquired this year. For new vehicles, 95% of the fuel selected is diesel fuel, which reduced fuel consumption by approximately 30%. We also conducted large fuel procurement in Estonia for the first time. We have taken the lead in organising large-scale joint procurements between public authorities. We have also reduced the number of depreciation vehicles by 150 at the Police and Border Guard Board. The financial savings under the reduction scheme amount to around EUR 180000, which fills the deficit resulting from the 2012 increase in fuel prices. We have also reduced the cost of acquiring special equipment. In addition, we foresee the possibility of compensating for the increase in fuel costs by reducing the provision of services from year to year. This is directly due to effective prevention, the budget of which we have significantly increased in 2012. You also asked about the salary. The issue of pay relates to the availability of financial resources. In 2012, four million euros have been allocated to the Police and Border Guard Board, which is a significant increase. We hope that in 2013, economic growth and revenue for the state budget will allow additional resources to be channelled into staff costs to motivate people. The budget negotiations for next year are ongoing. In the second half of the year, we will hear what opportunities the country will have for next year. The forecast for the 2013 budget will come at the end of August. I certainly consider it important to motivate staff and to make people do their job with their hearts, but also to know that the state appreciates their steps and efforts. Specific wage arrangements are a matter of decisions taken by the management of the Police and Border Guard Board. But this year, a number of areas, such as the criminal police, have received considerable support to motivate people. I hope this will all continue next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U70	Thank you. Next question please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U71	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You were talking about violent deaths and that much of the murders were caused by domestic violence. That's what I'm talking about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U72	Domestic violence causes a smaller proportion. Only a fifth of the murders and killings are caused by family violence, or family violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U73	I'm going to finish my question. Do I have 30 more seconds?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U74	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U75	There was talk of empathy. It just got my attention. What about law enforcement mobility? You have just explained fuel consumption. Would it be possible to hear from the Minister a good promise that the restrictions on transit will be significantly reduced? Today, the most cardinal example is that a day's mileage limit is 50 kilometers. Is it possible to make a proper promise to reduce restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U76	A mileage restriction is not a matter of itself, which much needs to be discussed and discussed. I will first specify the data for 2011. Of the total number of killings, 21% were those for which the parties were or had been in a close relationship. 70% of killings and murders were driven by a greater domestic dispute or conflict and by a common drinking quarrel. It was just a clarification. But close-up violence is certainly a serious issue. This is because efforts to reduce it will never produce immediate results in one at a time. It's a private sphere of people. The private sphere of people and what is happening there must be viewed with extreme delicacy by the state and also by local authorities. We can give recommendations to people and guide them. Certainly, the most problematic families whose homes have been called by the police several times because of close-relationship violence must be dealt with separately. A number of partners must be involved in this work, as I have always emphasised very seriously (e.g. social representatives, local social workers) because the police cannot achieve much alone there. Intimacy violence is one of the issues where "community-based police approach" or "law enforcement" play a very important role. This means that each individual case must be analysed and given special attention. But this can be done in essence with the same community, i.e. with the municipality, representatives of the municipality's NGO, people in the neighbourhood, etc. With regard to the recommendations on mileage, this is an internal police working arrangement. These recommendations certainly do not prevent us from responding to the challenges. I can assure you that these transit restrictions are not things in themselves; rather, their aim is to ensure that taxpayers' money is used as efficiently as possible, every departure must be thought out. At the operational level, it is possible to distinguish between very different incentives and reasons for departure. There are cases where people can help themselves on the ground, such as people in the neighbourhood or police officers. The police must, of course, know very precisely where the borders go and what the challenges are that cannot be met without the intervention of law enforcement. All these challenges will be met, and there will certainly be no limit to the mileage you referred to.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U77	Thank you very much. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you for this review and for the clarification and presentation of the positions. You were talking about the disappearance of Leisi's commando and the accident in the area. You and I have been discussing this before. There is another example: There is a commando in Tõrva, but unfortunately there was tragic death this year. I think that drawing conclusions requires a separate analysis. In your review, you mentioned the activities of the Ministry of the Interior, but you said that the hands are short, i.e. cooperation with the social partners must be stepped up in the work on security policy. What about prevention, media campaigns, work done in educational institutions among teachers and schoolchildren? Is what has been done enough, or does it leave something to be desired?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U79	Thank you! There's never enough prevention. Maybe a few remarks. First of all, about the tar commando. Tõrva commando will gain strength this year because of the restructuring, which means that the number of men on duty will increase significantly there, and the number of men in the rescue team will also increase. So all that's left is the good news. As regards the claim that my hands are short, I only used this when I spoke about the limits of police intervention in cases of near-relationship violence. As I said, this is a very delicate subject. Without the social partners, without social experts or with the social workers, it is not possible to succeed here. All efforts have been made to this end. The police are currently systematically involving the social partners in the discussions. During this year, the most problematic areas will be identified. I think there is certainly a need to clarify the more problematic households as well. For example, those from which a very large number of challenges have come, likely referring to a deeper problem of close relationship violence, which may have lasted for years. It can also be said that there are a number of issues in the field of internal security where the Ministry of the Interior and our authorities cannot succeed alone, but we can only succeed in cooperation with others. We intend to build this cooperation very closely. Let me give you some examples. Cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, under whose authority the Road Administration is responsible for road safety in Estonia, is extremely important in reducing road deaths. A government committee on drug prevention was set up on 5 April to combat drug addiction. This Commission was set up for the first time at the highest political level. Four ministers with political responsibility have been involved in the work of the Council on Drug Prevention: the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Education. You asked very rightly about the area of education. It is important that schools and educational programmes acknowledge the problem of drug addiction as early as possible. We have put together practically all Estonian experts who deal with the drug problem at one table. We've selected three main lines. First, dealing with drug addicts, or those who are already on a needle. The Ministry of Social Affairs has a very serious lucky role to play here. Secondly, drug prevention, i.e. reducing drug demand. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research have a very serious lucky role to play here. The Home Office is trying to help with its prevention programs here. Third, reducing supply of drugs. The authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in particular the criminal police, the Central Criminal Police and the drug services of the Prefectures, have a clear driving role to play here. There are more and more examples, including other accidents. We want to address such'multidisciplinary' issues precisely in order to clearly understand the use of all the resources used in the country to solve one problem or another and not only in the country, but also in municipalities, NGOs and the private sector. Perhaps we want to bring to one table everyone who is involved, in one form or another, in a more indirect or direct way, in finding a solution to this problem, and to be more effective by that. It's the only way in a small country where money is always missing. This is particularly true of the prevention that you have mentioned. That's never gonna happen. For its part, the Ministry of the Interior has increased funding for prevention projects in different areas. I have already mentioned the area of rescue, which has received 61% additional funds in 2012, and there has also been a huge increase in prevention money in the police sector this year. We will certainly continue to do so in the coming years, because I believe very strongly in the effectiveness of prevention efforts. This, of course, does not mean that there is no need to invest in resolving the consequences. But rather, the situation in Estonia has been that it has been the first to invest in resolving the consequences, because without it it it cannot, but now it is increasingly and more perceived that in order to achieve long-term effects, it is also necessary to invest in prevention. We do not see the effect of money invested in prevention right now, but maybe in three years, but maybe five years. But what is positive is that this need is increasingly perceived and considered in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U80	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U81	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! It is good to continue talking about inclusion, including all kinds of people from outside the structures, as you go forward with your answer. I was in Narva a few weeks ago as part of a special committee on state budget control. There is a very big problem with the fact that there are quite a few vacant positions in law enforcement, 18 or something like that. Narva said that there were really people who could work as an assistant police officer and that they would be willing to contribute. But there is a clear problem with fulfilling the language requirements. Assistant police officers also need to meet language requirements at level C1, which requires people to understand long and complex texts, also to grasp hidden meanings, etc. I fear that not everyone in this Chamber understands the hidden meaning of the text. Perhaps this is a practical solution that could be implemented to involve these people. So the question is: is this an issue that could be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U82	I therefore expect the Ministry of the Interior to contribute from the level of worker bees to legislation, as the legislation of the Ministry of Justice alone may not be enough. As far as drug deaths are concerned, I will continue to talk about this remote control that I understand the importance of the social side in reducing drug deaths and the importance of prevention, but we must not forget the fight against street traffic. Neither the Central Criminal Police nor perhaps even the criminal police departments of the Prefectures will help here. Once again, this is not a pure tactical question, it is a bit broader. That means the patrols on the streets are also dealing with dealers. Statistics show reverse development. I personally encountered here in the park near the Riigikogu building that it is simply not possible for patrols to react when drugs, as they say, are administered or sold in broad daylight. As far as fire deaths are concerned, it is a real pity that fire deaths have occurred during this year in those areas where commandos have been lost. There was a very good hope, and an analysis by the Rescue Board showed that there were enough preventive work or volunteers in these areas. Unfortunately, volunteers have not emerged in Estonia to such an extent that we can safely shut down the commandos. One thing should replace another. Now, however, this replacement has not come. Finally, I will talk about motivation. If you drive around Estonia and look at specialists, you can see tiredness, boredom, loss of hope. Why? Because years have passed since they tightened their belts because the whole country had a hard time. In fact, the 8% drop in their wages, as I said to the Minister in my question, meant a 15% drop in real wages, in some cases even more. Years have passed, and basically nothing has changed, except that more work has come. This is a strategic issue for national security. We have already been through this situation once, in the 1990s. We have three choices. First, find these funds at the expense of something else in the state budget. Secondly, reduce the law enforcement force, although, frankly, it is already on the border. Thirdly, we can accept that we will soon be witnessing corruption again, for example. I don't want to believe that, of course, but we've been through these scenarios in the 1990s. In any case, I sincerely wish the Minister the strength of this difficult work. I hope that this situation, which has not now gone the way of improvement, will find a groundbreaking line in the near future and that the Minister will also be able to stand up for even better funding in the area of internal security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U83	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a final word? No, I don't. Let's finish the negotiations. The fifth item is also exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U84	Thank you for your question. Assistant police officers are also officials when they carry out their duties. I consider it important that officials who are affected by the violation of fundamental rights of people understand the Estonian language. It's not conceivable any other way. If on the street a person who does not understand Estonian is giving orders, he can cause significant damage to the community and the entire country. I do not see any way to alleviate the requirements of the Estonian language of law enforcement. They're law enforcement officers. As we know, they have been able to carry out tasks in Estonia for some time with independent competence. This means that an assistant police officer does not have to physically protect public order only with a police officer; it is now possible for him to do so independently, on the basis of an oral order from the police officer. I don't see a way out of these claims. What is important is that we be able to provide training and training to help police officers to comply with these requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U85	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, First of all, thank you very much for your very substantive and thorough answers! I have a question about the speed cameras installed on the Tartu highway. Is there any analysis of the number of accidents before and after the installation of speed cameras? It could also be a short answer. If this analysis exists, how much has the number of accidents decreased? Or are drivers on the road often just used to it, remembering where the cameras are, and the accident rate is still the same? If such an analysis exists, what does it indicate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U87	Thank you! I don't have that kind of analysis on me right now. But on the basis of the information received, I can tell you that the speed cameras are still pre-emptive. They are specifically placed in places where there is a greater risk of a fatal accident. I owe you specific figures today, but I can put them in writing. I think the speed cams are strong. Despite the widespread myth that speed cameras were installed in Estonia to collect fines, this is not the case. They are not installed to collect fines, but to reduce the risk of people overestimating their abilities and taking due account of the traffic environment, weather and driving conditions in larger nodes and roads. I do believe that speed cameras have justified themselves in every way and that their installation should be continued. This is done by the Road Administration, which is subordinate to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but of course there is very close cooperation between the authorities, such as the Road Administration and the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U88	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U89	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely want to thank the Minister for the Interior for their answers. Mr. Home Secretary, may I have your attention for a moment? I want to acknowledge what the opposition does relatively rarely. Now that our country has had to stick together, it is still, as they say, possible to squeeze the juice out of an empty lemon. This requires very serious work throughout the administration. But I dare add a few ideas, because there is no major, resource-intensive investment currently foreseen in Estonia's internal security. These thoughts reflect what I have understood when driving around Estonia and talking to people in police stations or rescue teams. One really important thing that has proposed a certain limit to reducing the number of violent crimes is that for years, the number of serious crimes involving close relationship violence has remained at a certain level. The Minister of the Interior pointed out that violence in the relationship was a very delicate issue. Yes, invading a person's private space to resolve family disputes is always a very serious consideration. But if we look at some of the events that have been reported in the media over the last year in connection with close-relationship violence, we have often seen that these are the same families as the police have faced challenges in the past. Here is the role that my colleague Neeme the Great played in his question, namely how many miles the police can travel during the day. This is not just a tactical issue if it leads to strong setbacks in the Internal Security Strategy. If you are responsible for four or five rural municipalities, but the daily limit is 50 kilometres, which is now real in Estonia's rural areas, you will not be able to serve people or families at risk, even though it would have been possible to prevent a serious crime being committed half a year or a year later. Certainly, in the case of domestic violence, the legislative side cannot be regarded as secondary. We have reached a dam where, in order to achieve a new qualitative level of control of close relationship violence, there is a need to significantly improve the law. The Minister of Justice has made a promise in the Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as in this very remote area, that it will be dealt with in the near future. I look forward to the Ministry of the Interior's contribution to the police, to the internal defence bodies in general, including the rights of prosecutors to prevent events of family violence. For example, consider the application of the pre-trial protection order that exists in many European countries. The problem in Estonia is often that it is not the one who is violent but the one who is the victim of violence that is being taken away from home. I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U90	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U91	Now, ladies and gentlemen, after the hammer hit, it is possible to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say a few words about the results of the census. To begin with, we are not greatly disturbed by the results of such daily rhythm polls or censuses. But when we look at the results of the census, these figures do worry us. I come back to the questions we discussed when the census began. We doubted whether we would really know the actual population, the number of people who live here in Estonia. Personally, I still have one question that one person asked me. He explained that he is in Finland most of the time, works there, but in free moments he comes to Estonia with his family. He was asked during the census whether he was in Estonia for most of his free time. Of course, every mother and father will say yes. That is why he was considered to be a permanent resident of Estonia. But how many people do not actually live in Estonia, but are the residents of Estonia based on census data? Our results are compared with those of Latvia and Lithuania. We are now 76000 people, or 5.5% less. We compare ourselves with Latvia and Lithuania, where the population decline has been significantly higher: in Lithuania 14% and in Latvia 13%. I don't think these percentages can be compared or compared. We need to look at what the questions were. Depending on whether they were similar or different, we also get a different result. Also, because we are 76000 fewer people, we must not be left calm. Our government departments have wore one of the extraordinarily bright pearls, they have named parental benefits to support population growth. We all know that this is far from the kind of measure that would give birth. This magic wand hasn't worked, as we've seen from the countdown. We should come back to the fact that we should not compensate the parent for the loss of pay, all these benefits, but we should value children and the birth of children. In future, then, we should think again about the balance between parental benefits for each child. Anvar Samos and Kalle Muuli discussed in a radio show that 76000 inhabitants are about as many as there are people in Pärnu and Haapsalu. They conjured an image that Pärnu and Haapsalu could be empty of people. It's actually a very ugly sight. I bring out the figures for Southeast Estonia. More than 36000 people lived in Võru County as of 2011, more than 30000 in Põlva County, more than 33000 in Valga County. Given that the population of Estonia has decreased by 76000 inhabitants in ten years, we can imagine that everyone in Võrumaa and Põlva County would have left their home and some people from Valgamaa would have done so. If we ask what are the causes of the depopulation, it is, of course, a lack of natural growth and also of emigration. However, emigration is still linked to unemployment and a low number of jobs. Today in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Meelis Paavel, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, gave an overview. He said that the registered unemployment rate was still the highest in Ida-Virumaa, Valgamaa, Võru County and Põlva County. If we think about it, we can imagine that in ten years' time, not only will Võru, Valga and Põlva County be empty, but also a large part of Tartumaa. The state has problems and issues to deal with. If everything continues this way, I do not believe that in years' time the people of South-East Estonia or Tallinn will be able to sleep peacefully if they know that Estonia's border areas are empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-04_U93	Thank you. Please, any more requests? There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Have a good night. Closure of the sitting at 5.16 p.m.
