ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic, at the time and on the agenda requested by the Government of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I call on the speaker, the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Fisheries Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of the Defence Forces. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Defence, will represent the Government of the Republic when this draft is being processed. Thirdly, the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Commercial Code and related other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice in the proceedings of this bill. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant August working day! Before I hand over the draft we have initiated, I would like to thank the three groups who have expressed their views on our proposal whether they believe that the ESM should be put to a referendum or not. But the aim of this bill, which we are handing over today, is for children living in relative poverty to be vaccinated against tick encephalitis for free. When we look at statistics for recent years, we see that tick encephalitis is increasingly diagnosed in Estonia. In 2011, the number of cases was almost 25% higher than in 2010. The vaccine is often unavailable because of its high cost. Three injections cost EUR 60. Our aim is to propose, by means of a draft decision, to the Government of the Republic, that, as of 1 January 2013, the national immunisation plan include a clause that children living in relative poverty should be vaccinated against tick encephalitis free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U5	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U6	Honourable lead! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I hand over the draft amendment to § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act. The development of the draft has led to the need to reduce the number of children living in poverty, to support the full development of all children and to contribute to increasing confidence in families with children. In general, the purpose of family benefits is to ensure that all families with children are partially compensated for the costs of caring for, raising and studying children, because all children are equal and have the right to equal treatment. We believe that the universal family benefit system supports the principle that every child is valuable and reduces inequality. Estonian family policy has so far focused mainly on supporting births, and raising children has been neglected as necessary. We now spend more money on parental benefits than on other family benefits combined. The amount of child benefit paid until the child reaches the age of age is approximately EUR 99 million per year, the amount of parental benefit paid for only one and a half years is more than EUR 174 million. Studies show that people's behaviour could be changed if they wanted to if the state provided sufficient material support, access to childcare and the knowledge that even a parent or a single parent who has lost his job can raise their children and provide them with a full childhood and good education. Experience in the nearest countries also shows that there is a positive link between the birth rate and the family allowances paid by the state. In countries of the European Union with higher family benefits, the birth rate is also higher. In relative terms to GDP, Estonia's family benefits are some of the smaller than in our neighbouring countries. We are taking a comparatively unprecedented step, because we have already submitted a draft of the same or roughly the same form to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, the coalition has rejected it since its first reading. That is why we are handing over the draft, somewhat polished, and we hope that now, in a situation where we find money to support the countries that are failing in the European Union, we will also be able to show solidarity with our own people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted seven draft laws. If they comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept them within three working days. Ladies and gentlemen, Now some messages. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered the member Kaja Kallas as a member of the Estonian Reform Party. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has approved the following changes in committees: member of the Riigikogu Kaja Kallas has become a member of the Economic Committee, member of the Riigikogu Kalle Palling has left the Economic Committee and joined the Committee on the Environment, member of the Riigikogu Terje Trei has left the Committee on the Environment and joined the Committee on Rural Affairs, member of the Riigikogu Andre Sepp has left the Committee on Rural Affairs and joined the Committee on Foreign Affairs, member of the Riigikogu Tõnis Kõiv has left the Committee on European Union Affairs and member of the Riigikogu Kalev Lillo has joined the Committee on European Union Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the draft Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic and has appointed it as the commission of directors of the Monetary Commission. On 28 June, the Government of the Republic withdrew from the proceedings of the Riigikogu the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in Iraq' 120. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 12 July, Estonia presented its views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on electronic identification and trust services for e-transactions in the internal market to the European Union Committee and has appointed the Constitutional Commission and the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 6 September at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a Estonia's views on the European Commission's questionnaire on the future of European company law were presented on 2 August and has appointed a Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 13 August at 11 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 93 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 8. This means that the Riigikogu has a quorum. Let us go to the next point, which is to set a timetable for the work of the extraordinary session. Pursuant to § 52 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Riigikogu establishes the working schedule of the extraordinary session by a majority of the votes. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Please vote! 93 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The timetable for the work of the extraordinary session has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U8	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of an amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress. Please, Mr. Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U9	I have a procedural question. This is a constitutional issue, both in terms of the Republic of Estonia and the European Union. The Annex contains a translation of Article 136, which contains ambiguities. The problem in this particular case is that the Estonian translation and the English translation are incompatible, although the German translation must have been more or less the same as in Estonian, French in the same way as in English. Question: is this technical error, which is also substantial, so big that we cannot discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U10	This question is answered by a representative of the Commission. Mr Rait Maruse, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U11	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on ratification of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 28 May 2012. This draft was discussed in the Commission on 4 June. a. This law is intended to ratify the amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which was adopted by a decision of the European Council of 25 March 2011. Pursuant to that Decision, Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is amended as regards the establishment of a European Stability Mechanism for Member States of the European Union whose currency is the euro. The first reading took place on 12 June and the first reading was closed. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 working days, i.e. amendments had to be tabled by 4 p.m. on 26 June. Two amendments were received by this deadline: one from Igor Gräzin and the other from Igor Gräzin and Rait Marust. The draft and amendments were discussed by the Commission on 2 August. The aim of my amendment and that of my colleague Gräzini is that Estonia's participation does not run counter to the principle of the equilibrium of the state budget of the Republic of Estonia and does not remove the Estonian economy from the limits set by the so-called Maastricht criteria for economic stability. We presented our proposal at the time when the draft ratification of the ESM had not yet been received by the Riigikogu. In this sense, it was one step further than would have been necessary at that time. This issue will be discussed when the creation of a specific stability mechanism is on the agenda. For this reason, we withdrew the proposal as a matter of urgency. This proposal therefore remained undisputed in the Commission. The second proposal came from my colleague, Mr Gräzin. It was about the translation. Since Igor Gräzin's amendment was not on the draft 237 text but on its annex, we did not consider it to be an amendment meeting the requirements of § 99 and § 100 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. For this reason, the Commission rejected this amendment. At the same time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs found that translations of foreign contracts must always be correct and accurate and decided to send a letter of formal notice to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's what we did. At its meeting on 8 August, the Commission decided to propose the completion of the second reading of the draft and the adoption of the draft as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U12	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. Now let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Reading the amendment you tabled on this draft law, I felt that it was entirely appropriate and reasonable. While you have finally withdrawn this amendment, did you discuss the substance and impact of this amendment on our laws in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U14	We did not discuss it further in the Commission because it was, as expressed in the Commission, the right thing to do in the wrong place. This was also pointed out by the Director General of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who was present at our committee meeting. Whether an amendment or addition to the draft will come back on the agenda will depend on further decisions if we start proposing and revising amendments to the ESM.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U15	Please, colleague Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned that the situation has changed somewhat. The next draft is now also under discussion. This kind of debate, which is caused by something that has been drafted in a somewhat flagrant way by the Treaties or by the Constitution, may continue to come. That's why I'm asking. When Estonia joined the European Union, debates took place in the Riigikogu on the initiative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The question of whether or not a referendum would be needed to change the Treaties in the future was interpreted as meaning that amendments to the Treaties should always be put to a referendum. At present, this amendment has been described in a way that could be done anyway, even without amending the Treaty. Are there details and important things in the context of the referendum on the amendment of the Treaties? Can there be a basic distinction here, or is it that, if there is a change, there is a referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U17	Your observation is correct. If the Treaty changes are to lead to fundamental changes, then it should also be accepted by the people. The amendment at hand does not give the European Union or its institutions any new competence. That is what it says in this bill and in the explanatory memorandum. Consequently, and also because the document has been drafted as an external agreement, we do not think that a referendum is necessary at this point in time. However, a referendum is still needed if we consider that all these competences and the European Union to which we have joined have changed so significantly since accession that we should therefore hold a referendum. But that is another issue, it is not a matter of today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U18	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U19	The ESM will come and there will be many such things, because there will be no end to the crisis. I'm just going to be more specific. The idea of our amendment was that we would not go so far as to help it, that our economy would go out of the Maastricht criteria. That was the idea of our amendment. As the State Department attorney said, it was a good idea, but in the wrong place. Do we, Rait, agree that we are still putting this amendment into this second bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U20	Do I have to answer that in front of the hall? Indeed, I think that all the crap that has arisen in the European Union in terms of financial and economic stability would have been largely or probably not at all if the countries had complied with the Maastricht criteria (budget balance and debt ratio). If they had been kept from the beginning, then perhaps the situation would now be completely different. That is why our point, as you yourself have expressed, is to draw the attention of countries to the fact that we still consider the Maastricht criteria to be important and to be based on what has already been agreed once.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U21	Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! We have a more or less clear picture of the pace at which the ESM Treaty will be ratified. There's been a lot of public talk about this. We still have this ratification ahead of us. But now we are ratifying the amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. How has this been in the Member States? Are there others who have not done so? Have there been any precedents that someone has written some kind of declaration?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U23	I do not have any statistics on the state of play of ratification. This amendment, which we are currently reviewing, is due to enter into force from 1 January 2013. Have countries included declarations or not? There is also no precise overview of this, but it is an international agreement and under international contract law, countries are competent to make declarations, reservations, etc. There is nothing extraordinary about this, although the Treaty itself does not provide for the possibility of making a declaration. But the declaration means showing the position.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U24	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U25	Thanks! Good Rait, am I clear and clear about you? When you were talking about the transformation of the European Union and the referendum, did you say that the European Union has not changed since 2003 or has not changed enough so that we need to discuss referendums?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U26	We can certainly discuss whether and to what extent the European Union has changed. He's definitely changed, there's no doubt about it. Whether the rate of change is such that a people's mandate is needed again is a matter of its own. I'm glad it's on the table. We will definitely come back to this at some point, but according to § 106 of the Constitution, foreign treaties cannot be put to a referendum. We are talking about a specific foreign agreement that cannot be put to a referendum in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U27	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U28	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, You mentioned that the amendment to the agreement will enter into force on 1 January 2013. Why do we have the truth to create an ESM earlier? What legal basis does it have if it is created, for example, in September or October? Are we doing empty work here and wasting Estonian Television time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U29	Good colleague! This observation is basically correct. This is a situation that should have been realised by the Treaty already when the single European currency was introduced, but for many reasons it was not done at the time. This draft amends only the primary law of the European Union so that the Member States of the European Union whose currency is the euro may establish such a stability mechanism. What this stability mechanism looks like, what its competence is and what its working procedures are, it will be implemented with a specific stability mechanism, the ESM, which we will be reading for the first time today. Maybe if the scenario materializes like you said, it looks like the egg was before the chicken. However, current European Union law does not provide for such a hierarchical legal structure that there must be a change in the framework agreement before the stability mechanism can be made. A stability mechanism may also be established on the basis of international agreements. States may do so without being provided for in the framework agreement. However, it would, of course, be legally correct that such an amendment or correction would have been made in the framework agreement before the ESM would be operational.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U30	Please, my colleague Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U31	Thank you. Good Rait! I'm asking you as a very good constitutional expert. It is clear that in recent years there has been an increase in pressure towards the European Union's treaties. It is precisely because it is quite obvious that, in addition to the financial crisis, the European Union is experiencing a political crisis. There is a constitutional debate in Estonia and also in this Chamber. How do you feel about these changes at the level of the European Union, which would really put pressure on us to think about amending our constitution or the resulting referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U32	Thank you, good questioner! The point is, indeed, that these questions are on the agenda. Against the background of the economic stability crisis in the European Union or the financial crisis, all kinds of ideas have been put forward, up to the point that Europe needs the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, etc. How it all works out is not clear. In my opinion, until we know exactly what is planned and how it is planned, we must wait and see, not rush ahead of events. But there's some kind of change going on. If these changes take a more concrete form, we must come back to the Constitution and the mandate we have received from the people in our own country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U33	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U34	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Maybe I'm getting out of the framework of the bill a little bit, but my question still has a close connection to the bill and its subject matter. The draft explanatory memorandum also states that European Union law does not give rise to a prohibition on Member States from regulating their cooperation with an international agreement, even if it concerns the subject matter of the Treaties on which the European Union is founded. We recall the recent proceedings at the Supreme Court. There was the government's position that, for example, the ESM agreement is an international agreement within the meaning of Estonian law, which has a close connection with Estonia's membership in the European Union. It seems that at the moment, we often run into a situation where Estonian laws contain precisely unregulated 'European' things, which are not directly part of European Union law. In your opinion, would this area need more precise regulation in Estonian law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U35	Thank you. Indeed, we have so far seen European Union law as an international law. After all, our constitution does not really have a European Union segment in its specificity. However, everyone agrees that European Union law is not a classic international law, but is a right in itself, sui generis. It would therefore be entirely appropriate for our Constitution to include competences and procedures relating to the application of European Union law. I am of the opinion that this could be determined in more detail and more detail. Sooner or later, we'll have to come to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U36	Please, Mr Peep Aru! I don't want a word. Please don't play! Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U37	Thank you. As a curious person, I would like to ask you, Rait, to be honest and tell me how often it has occurred in practice that a Treaty will work later than the document voted on on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U38	I can't figure out how often this has happened. I can only confirm that it would have been legally correct if this amendment had been on the table and adopted already when the euro was introduced. I didn't do it. For what reason, and who is responsible, I don't know. There is such a peculiar confusion: on the one hand, international law applies, on the other hand, European Union law applies again. For me, it's a bit disturbing and, in some way, a warning sign. But that's the situation we're in. You have to accept what's right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U39	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The above questions could give the impression that, without amending the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the ESM would be contrary to these Treaties. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum to the draft to be discussed as the next item on the agenda clearly states that the revision of the Treaties will improve legal certainty and not fill an empty space. Do you confirm that joining the ESM, or rather the creation of an ESM, is compatible with the Treaties without supplementing Article 136?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U41	Basically. One of the values and aims of the European Union is a stable economic and monetary policy. There are concrete measures to support this, such as the ESM. It would be correct if, at the same time, there were a corresponding provision in the base agreement and there were mechanisms in place for the implementation of this provision. However, they are not related to each other in such a hierarchical way that without one you cannot do another. That is what I have tried to explain in answer to previous questions. I believe that the anticipation of an appropriate amendment to the framework agreement will simply raise this whole undertaking to legal accuracy, we will call it that, on the constitutional basis, and there will also be certainty for future such steps if they prove necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U42	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U43	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, There has been an expression in this Chamber that you have to accept what you have. It's also used in newspapers. It means that somewhere, these arrangements have already been made. The Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia has no choice but to come together, the waitress says from the remote that we must accept what is and we will vote in favour. Then why are we having this debate here? It makes no sense at all; we cannot change anything on this or on the next item. How should it be viewed? Doesn't that bother you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U44	The expression 'to accept what is' was specifically used by me on draft 237, on its course of procedure. Of course, as a lawyer, I don't like this situation very much legally, but what can I do about you? This international agreement, which we are currently discussing, must go along. If you didn't do it once, maybe you can fix it later. We're trying to fix the mistake today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U45	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! If we look at the text of the amendment, we will see that it states that the mechanism necessary to ensure stability will be introduced if it is essential for the stability of the euro area as a whole. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, this idea has been slightly expanded. It also talks about the situation when an ESM member is in serious financial difficulties and when the provision of stability support is essential for the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. Did you discuss these criteria in the Commission? Given Estonia's small size, can our financial difficulties at all lead to a threat to the financial stability of the euro area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U47	Thank you! In particular, we did not discuss this issue in the Commission. In fact, this is a question about the next item on the agenda, because then we will have a concrete mechanism on the table: an assessment of the situation, how the situation is being reacted, what measures are being taken, who has what competence, what procedures are, etc. Then it comes to the agenda whether stability is essential, whether there is an emergency, etc. I cannot answer in general, the answer can only be given if the specific mechanism is on the table and the subject of our debate. It will come to the debate as the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U48	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U49	Thank you. This time I did the right thing by pressing the button. My colleague, inspired by the question of Grief and your answer, I ask: can we do anything about these drafts or can we not? In my opinion, we do not have to accept them if we do not want to do so in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, and we can accept if we want to do so. We always have the opportunity to vote either for or against ratification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U50	I'm gonna have to agree with you. But we tend to talk about the law of extension of the framework agreement and the ESM. Let's keep these two things separate. We are talking about an extension of the framework agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U51	Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Apart from the beauty that we are doing today, we are testing for the first time a new voting system and a new microphone system, which will definitely cause us some problems. But what I want to ask is this: is and how much is the first item on the agenda related to the second item on the agenda? Can they be legally linked?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U53	Thank you! I don't think they're connected. One is, however, the law supplementing the framework agreement, the creation of a certain constitutional basis or presumption. The second is a separate draft which deals with a specific mechanism. They're not connected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U54	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As my colleague said, there are no amendments to the draft law. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act 237 on the ratification of an amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 86 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U55	Ladies and gentlemen, We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! You have before you a proposal to join the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM. This is one of the things that have not been done at the right time, but especially in the light of the crisis, a very important step in European economic and political integration. The great lesson of the debt crisis for Europe has been that the advantages of the single currency must be guaranteed in the event of crises by rigorous fiscal policies and a stability mechanism in the Member States. The introduction of the euro created an illusion in both lenders and countries that the mitigation of monetary risk would allow for loose fiscal policies. As a result, national borrowing rates converged rapidly and the deficits seemed to be able to be financed indefinitely. Everything changed when the crisis came. The reduced budget revenues and the attempt to compensate for the economic downturn with public expenditure quickly increased the gap between the revenue and expenditure of the budgets as well as between national ratings and borrowing rates. Difficulties in some countries also amplified them in others and instability proved to be an international problem, not just a one-country problem. The economic concerns became new concerns, the concerns of budgets, which made the ability of many countries to pay their debts questionable. All of this undermined banks' balance sheets, and the economy suffered a new setback from the deteriorating banking situation, a reduction in investment and consumer confidence and an increase in unemployment. In order to break this vicious circle, it was necessary to deal with the causes. Therefore, strong monitoring of budgets and macroeconomic problems has been recently implemented, pending sanctions. Common European banking supervision is also being created. But mistakes have already been made over the years, and debt burdens require constant service. It has therefore come to mind that there is also a need for a stability mechanism to ensure that the remaining and jointly secured trust allows loans to be granted to the beneficiary countries, so that they can have time to clean up their finances, and to avoid the losses of partner countries. Honourable Riigikogu! The crisis proved the simple truth that Estonia, as a small country, is much more vulnerable to instability in Europe than the major drivers of this instability and depends more on the external environment and cooperation than others. Therefore, we are creating a stability mechanism directly to protect the budgetary choices of the Riigikogu, not to narrow down the amount that we are paying in there. Financial stability and economic stability in general are a public good that protects our constitutional values and our right to a safer life. The ESM must not be interpreted as a foreign obligation to spend money, but as an opportunity to support its economy where there are major obstacles. It is much cheaper to ensure economic security together than individually. We have the opportunity of the ESM to clean up its own and European economic environment, to force partners to behave responsibly and to reform. We are applying this coercive in a consensus in Europe. All other euro area countries have ratified the ESM weeks ago. There are inappropriate speeches that Estonia has nowhere to go. I stress: we are the last. It is only in August that the process is started and the decision at the end of August shows no respect for itself or its cooperation partners, even though it does not prevent the ESM from starting without us. By contributing to Europe's common stability, we must recognise that direct and non-repayable aid alone has put Europe several times more into our well-being than its own budget, and that will remain so for long years. Of course, all members have the right to receive assistance from the ESM. The ESM decided to create an IMF as a European analogue in the form of an international organisation, which should help to place it in a rational position in Estonian finance and international cooperation, including risk assessment and decision-making competences. The total capital of the ESM is EUR 700 billion, of which 80 billion is a tax. Both are divided between 17 countries according to the key used by the European Central Bank. Half of the proportion results from the population and half of the total national production. The ESM has a lending capacity of 500 billion. This is essentially guaranteed by six countries with a rating of AAA. Its capital is higher than its lending capacity, which characterises the financial strength of the proposed mechanism. In the negotiations, we achieved 0.186% of the capital capacity of Estonia, instead of 0.2558% offered by the central bank, which applies to us for 12 years, given the accession to the euro area. Since 2023, the regular key of that moment will come into force, but so far the key share will be one third and the total production of the country that better reflects solvency will be three quarters. In principle, in the future, we can talk about the increase in Estonia's total contribution to EUR 1.79 billion, of which the paid-up capital is 204.64 million and the callable capital is 1,58596 billion. The ESM will be created to protect owners and investment in them will also be thoroughly secured. It is self-financing in the market and its design therefore means the AAA rating. Loans to and from the ESM shall not be accounted for by the owners' public debt. The scenario that part of the ESM investment, albeit all of it, should be written off is highly unlikely. The security of participation is guaranteed by strict lending principles and decision-making mechanisms. ESM is a senior creditor. ESM's capital structure is conservative, including a high share of paid-up capital and a lower lending capacity than the total capital. The financial assistance provided by the ESM is strictly conditional and requires the ability of the borrower to fulfil its obligations. The effectiveness of the economic reforms of the beneficiary of financial assistance is closely monitored. Failure to comply with economic reforms will result in failure to pay out the next tranche of the loan. Where appropriate, the economic reforms to be undertaken by the beneficiary of financial assistance shall be amended or supplemented. The financial assistance shall be of a long-term maturity. The activities of the ESM shall comply with sound financial and risk management principles. The ESM has the possibility to refinance itself and extend the obligations of the borrower. I would add that the ESM cooperates with the IMF and, in most cases, also finances countries with it. In order to characterise the level of risks associated with the contributions made by the ESM, I will give an example of the scenario presented in the explanatory memorandum. If, for example, in some unlikely cases, the ESM does suffer 10% of the 300-billion loan portfolio in ordinary banking (which is not so conservative, very high loss rate) then its impact on Estonia is about 0.3% of Estonia's GDP this year, given our 0.186% participation, but this does not mean turning to the owners' budgets. The ESM financial assistance decision requires a memorandum of understanding to be drawn up in the joint work of the client and the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF. This must first be politically endorsed by the Eurogroup. The Riigikogu ELAK is definitely involved at this stage. ESM management and loan decisions are taken in a consensual manner, i.e. each ESM member has a veto right. This will ensure that euro area Member States have control over ESM activities. Only in exceptional cases, if the European Commission and the European Central Bank consider that a rapid decision is needed to ensure the economic and financial sustainability of the euro area, the loan decision may be taken by qualified majority, i.e. 85% of the voting rights of the owners. Even from the usual loan decisions of other international financial organisations, this is much more unanimous. In the IMF, a simple majority of votes is sufficient for loan decisions. The possibility of resolving the acute emergency situation quickly is in the interest of the whole euro area and also of Estonia. When solutions lingered, the price of a market panic solution would be higher. The fear that Estonia belongs to a 15% minority is irrational. In fact, as a vulnerable economy, we are interested in the good functioning of the mechanism and in avoiding political stalemate, like all Members. I stress: the urgent procedure in emergency situations, if any, is indeed exceptional, but even such a qualified majority loan decision does not impose any additional obligations on Estonia compared to the mandate of the Riigikogu. In an emergency procedure, an emergency reserve fund shall be set up to cover the risks associated with this loan. The reserve fund shall be sufficient to cover all risks and any losses associated with the financial assistance provided under the urgency procedure. The creation of the reserve fund also limits the total amount of loans granted by the ESM. There is a strong unanimity in the ESM, which is a huge exception in international organisations, but they all always seek consensus. The fact that Estonia does not have the right to veto in the ESM urgent procedure is not absolute. We have proven that we can join national groups. It is worth pointing out that much more than the possibility that we miss veto rights is the probability that veto rights prevent Estonia from achieving its objectives, especially when Estonia believes that a support programme should be launched in the interests of our own financial stability, but a minority's different view would not allow the ESM to make decisions. We have also discussed national procedures for the ESM together with the ratification law. I ask the Riigikogu not to separate them from the ratification decision, because these procedures are meaningless without membership, but membership must be linked to national procedures to minimise the interference with the Constitution. These things should still be voted together and discussed at a single pace. At the same time, the ESM is not so special that it would have to build up the fundamental mechanisms of the Estonian state. Apart from the EFSF, there are individual management decisions for all international financial organisations, including loan decisions, delegated to the government and the competence of the Riigikogu to change only the basic principles of the organisation, such as the treaties, and the property obligations of Estonia. On the basis of the Supreme Court's decision and the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice, we have even gone far beyond the example of the EFSF in the draft ESM with proposals to change the role of the Riigikogu, to the limit that we could already start to hold back international cooperation and thus damage the economic environment. In principle, it is possible for the Riigikogu to be involved in discussing all new programmes, memoranda and also these changes, but it is certainly not appropriate to include a large chamber of the Riigikogu in the discussion of third-rate amendments. Therefore, the government's proposal is to give the EUAA, in certain cases, an opportunity to assess whether the issue needs to be discussed in a large Chamber. The Government's proposal does not in any way reduce the role of the Riigikogu. Members can choose which issues to bring to the large Chamber by participating in the work of the specialised committee and ELAK. As the EFSF already has four customer countries and their memorandums are amended at least quarterly, according to the decision of the Riigikogu on the EFSF, the government has introduced the planned changes in ELAK every month. The members of ELAK can comment on how useful it would be to discuss such topics in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, and then decide. In certain cases, when time-criticalness and confidentiality are involved, it is not possible to convene this House. The need for assistance often arises in a situation where trust is impaired and delays in decisions cost a lot and not only the customer himself. The ESM faith of the markets is guaranteed by its effective action. In the case of EFSF, the time allowed for national decisions is between four and five days, sometimes less. Long national processes, however, undermine efficiency. After all, the draft and its explanatory memorandum must always be submitted to the Riigikogu's plenary, the foreign contract must be presented in Estonian and foreign languages. The draft will be handed over to the Riigikogu from the Chair of the Chamber before discussing the issues on the agenda, after the referral, the Management Board will meet to decide on the procedural plan. Sessions of the Riigikogu are held 120 days a year. During the intersessions, the government is able to propose to convene an extraordinary session of the Riigikogu. The proposal shall be accompanied by a draft and a draft agenda. The emergency session requires the presence of 51 parliamentarians in the hall at all times. It would not be reasonable to subject the entire working rhythm of the Riigikogu to the ESM, in which there is nothing very special either in terms of constitutional law or in terms of financial risks. It should also be recalled that the Riigikogu cannot change its working language, which in the case of the ESM is an English language, in which the entire large-scale basic documentation is presented. There are also restrictions on certain market sensitive information in the financial world, which Estonia cannot undo in any way. The documents of some of the ESM support instruments, in particular the recapitalisation instrument for financial institutions and the secondary market support instrument, are already known to be market sensitive, leading to their publication on the smallest possible number of persons. Both the decisions of the ESM directors and the Board of Directors, as well as the material and other documents underlying those decisions, may be subject to strict confidentiality requirements. For example, decisions and the underlying material of these decisions, as well as other documents containing market sensitive information that could allow abuse in the event of premature disclosure (think about it: to allow abuse, even though people and businesses have great economic interests at stake) or lead to a massive fall in financial markets (this is a fact that has been seen a great deal). Of course, all of this does not mean that there can be secrets before the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu can declare the sitting closed by a two-thirds majority, but confidential is not only the session itself, but also all documents relating to the granting of stability support and the guideline given to the representative of Estonia. The confidentiality of the documents of the sitting and of the guideline approved by the decision of the Riigikogu published in the Riigikogu is questionable. This would be very unusual, contrary to the current practice of the Estonian state. So let's keep things in proportion. This should preserve the dignity of the Estonian state. Honourable Riigikogu! I had to look at the details related to the ESM more closely than was customary for joining international organisations. This is not due to unusually high risks and abnormal mechanisms of action associated with the ESM, but to some disproportionate attention shown by the public against it. Please, let us put the ESM into a natural dimension in our finances, in our foreign policy and in our parliamentaryism. I'm sure I'd like to vote for him, too! In any case, the ESM and the calm attitude toward him will pay off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U57	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U58	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have a simple question. Why are we the last to discuss the ratification of the ESM? This cannot be linked to the opposition of the Riigikogu, at least not to the majority of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U59	This certainly has to do with the working schedule of the Riigikogu which it has established for itself. The only formal and, of course, insurmountable obstacle was the working schedule of the Supreme Court. There was a promise to make a decision by Midsummer Day, but the decision was postponed by July 12. I can say that the Estonian Supreme Court did not go on holiday or delay this work. There were big disputes. We were, of course, looking forward to this result. But we had the bill, we would have been in the government's position to approve it on 19 July. When looking for an analogy with Germany, it must be said that the Riigikogu should have been prepared to make a final decision in July. But the way it is now is that, apart from our country which has been slowest so far, the Treaty was ratified on 19 July and the processes started already in spring, when they had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U60	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U61	Thank you. Good minister! My question concerns the relationship between the ESM and the state budget. There have been quite a lot of signals about why we are participating in this mechanism when we have many unresolved problems in our home country. That is certainly correct. But when we read the explanatory memorandum, we see that our participation in the state budget is recorded as a financing transaction. It's not a cost. We give away the money and we get a share in it. Even if we are not interested in what is happening in our main trading partners and what is happening in Europe at all, we will be able to use this money internally to pay any subsidies or, for example, to build roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U62	The short answer is that there really isn't. But this answer is, of course, very multi-pronged. Also in court, I do not mean here in person, Indrek Teder, who ironed it over the use of the word, that it was an investment. In fact, it is a financial investment, it is a money placement that earns interest and is protected. But, of course, this investment is not in the sense that we are going to use it under the same conditions to make money. We should still be asking for a very high return if we go to buy these bonds. I found out that this morning's paper also ironed that you see, they call it an investment. It's a terminological investment, it's profitable, but it's an investment that we do for certain political and broader reasons. That's it. Its wider income is not, of course, about the interest it receives, but about European cooperation and the economic and social benefits it brings to Europe by a stable economy. This is certainly a very profitable investment in this sense, if it still works properly and if the black scenarios do not materialise. I have not heard any other suggestions. This is what Europe has decided and what it recommends to do more than not to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U63	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U64	Mr Secretary of Finance. Your party partner and our colleague Igor Gräzin recently tried to prove in the Evening Paper that the weakening of the euro is beneficial for Estonia because it increases our export capacity. Therefore, neither the government nor the Riigikogu should care about the weakening of the euro. Such an idea is certainly well understood by the people in its simplicity, but at the same time contradicts the draft law that you have proposed. Would you be so kind as to comment on the idea that Estonia will benefit from a weak euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the ESM Treaty, mainly on the role of the beneficiary countries in the share capital of the ESM. It is known that in the case of the EFSF adopted last year, beneficiary countries will be able to apply and leave the EFSF. This opportunity has been used by quite a number of countries. There is no such option for the ESM. Those countries receiving aid must also invest in share capital. Isn't that a bit of a munchhausen theory? Europe gives money. I would point out that Greece is EUR 19 billion, of which EUR 2.2 billion will be a real capital contribution in the coming years. In essence, he is asking for money from Europe and is also paying it back. Has it been knowingly done that the beneficiary countries have not been given the opportunity to withdraw from any moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U66	Thank you. Since the end: I have understood that this is essential to the Chancellor of Justice. After all, his dispute was built on how to ensure the role of the Riigikogu. We had to explain a lot of things, which are actually simple truths, but we also had to guarantee the role of the Riigikogu and sign it in disproportionately much. Now to divorce yourself. This was one of the issues of litigation, how can ESM be a member if there is no guarantee of parliamentary supervision. This dispute ended with the fact that we ensure it. These drafts cannot live a separate life. It can't be that there's membership, but there's no rules on how to act. Or if there are rules of conduct, what do we do if we're not a member of the ESM? The Riigikogu must decide these matters together. I also tried to explain in a speech, maybe a little crazy, that there's no need to build an ESM besides the rest of the country. In reality, what has been said in interviews and speeches is that the ESM is bigger than the Estonian state, all procedures must be subordinated to it, the House becomes executive, the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and all practices are changed because we suddenly have an ESM. The money paid in is smaller than the money paid in to Eesti Energia this year, for example. The Riigikogu does not control Eesti Energia at all, we give away 150 million in one year, and next year the expectations will be even higher. They carry the party on their own, and most parties punch their fists in the chest and say that the members of the Riigikogu are not allowed to control anything there. I am very proud that I have been a member of the Estonian Energy Council and know quite a lot about energy. I know the people who do it, and I know how to judge their words and actions, if necessary critically. In my opinion, such transfers of funds should be subject to greater control. At the same time, the management of international organisations is an utopian idea from the Riigikogu hall. That's never gonna happen. Be good and act as you have done so far, that there is general supervision, but not ambition that will not be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U67	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I think it is quite natural that this practical detail, as you say, in the form of the ESM, has led to a wider debate. In parallel with the development of the ESM mechanism, for example, some countries were ready, I would stress that some countries were also prepared to amend the Treaties. The Estonian representative in the winter announced that the development together with the amendment of the Treaties does not excite us very much; we are ready for this. Any monetary-policy centralisation will actually lead to centralisation in other areas. As debates are also about the formation of European states, I wonder how far you think a monetary centralisation can lead to national sovereignty being handed over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U69	Thank you. I haven't used the word 'pisiasi' here. I've rather used the idea that this is one of the usual things, there's nothing extraordinary here. There is no fantastic or unexpectedness in relation to risks, procedures, parliamentaryism or anything else. Speaking of this conflict, the public has been bluffed. We should achieve a calm attitude toward this matter. As far as financial centralisation is concerned, we have chosen this path. When we joined the European Union, we committed ourselves to joining the single currency. It was elementary. We actually joined the single currency already in 1992, the first to really assess economic rules for a small country. When you talk about the ESM, it was, I say again, the missing stone of the foundation built at that time, the forgotten, neglected stone. In retrospect, everyone is saying that it should have existed immediately, that there should have been sanctions and that there should have been strong supervision. It should not have been the case that the two major countries simply agree that they have a budget problem, but let's forget about this shit and let's slide. This is something that the finance ministers remember with bitterness. These countries have nothing to answer. It's embarrassing. When talking about the further boundary of centralisation, I am thinking about tax policy, it must be said that centralisation of indirect taxes is reasonable that there should be no market distortions and that the economy should not be unduly harassed. Indirect taxes are, according to the experts' rather consensual opinion, the best for economic development. But I am certainly opposed to the harmonisation of direct taxes. Harmonisation should, in this case, still take an attractive form for the economy, not the form in which Europe has reached this long-term development, that we are taking money from the rich and the poor, and then we are running out of debt. This has been a road of congestion in Europe, which is now being resolved, going more towards a different tax structure and correcting errors. The ESM is one correction for errors, it cools crises. The ESM is directly a crisis measure. I am actually worried about the heart, too, and I will be on guard in any case, as far as I am given this opportunity, so that there is no unreasonable financial centralisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U70	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U71	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I will start by saying that the euro is Estonian money and therefore the stability of the euro is in the interests of all Estonian residents. The European stability mechanism before us is one of the means of achieving stability in the euro and in the euro area. However, we are nevertheless hearing thoughts here that something is being taken away from the Estonian people by means of the euro area's stability mechanism or its consequences. As Minister of Finance, you will be preparing the state budget for next year and know these choices. That is why I am asking: what expenditure is not included in next year's budget, which would improve the well-being of the Estonian people, but what can't be done because of the ESM? Is there any such expense, and if so, what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U72	Thank you. I don't know what that cost is. We'll make an ESM deposit at the expense of the reserves. We are not trying to make anyone happy in any other way than by creating stability. The previous question had a little to do with where this financial harmonisation could go. This is one of the benefits we seek with this arrangement. This means increasing budgetary opportunities, not reducing them. This does not mean spending, it is a set-up, so that other expenses can be made more and life will be safer in the future. I've never emphasized this interest rate thing. It is also important that this money does not actually melt (I mean the real value of the money, not the nominal values). But basically, it allows people to stand up for their well-being better, as far as the state can. We invest in our own well-being through a Europe where setbacks are now the most obvious. During the boom, we did foolish things on every level, worked too hard, but the real problems are still beyond the borders of our country, as the Central Television said in the old days.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U73	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U74	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U75	Thank you. Good minister! In your presentation, you highlighted the financial assistance received from the European Union, and it was as if you put an equal sign between joining the ESM and the European Union's financial assistance. What is the link between joining the ESM and financial assistance from the European Union? Will Latvia and nine other European Union countries that have not joined the euro area and have not joined the ESM receive less support from the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U76	It seems to me that there's a little retreat there, but there's not a single wind signaling it. Greece has spoken of this as one of its cash-flow issues, that at that time they need to make this contribution. This is not a munchhausen trick because real paid-up money is real paid-up money. This money needs to be raised to ensure a loan capacity of EUR 500 billion. This paid-up money is leveraged: 15% will be paid in and 85% will be raised on the market. It is a kind of money machine, like banks, but it is important, both politically and financially, that everyone participates. Greece has not shook here, and no one else has shook. If necessary, we will come to the aid of the loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U77	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! You spoke very nicely about the need to exclude the Riigikogu plenary from solving problems related to the ESM and the appropriateness of delegating it to the European Union committee. A certain rivalry of the legislative and executive powers is widely known in the world and therefore there is nothing particularly surprising about the proposal. However, in a parliamentary country there are traditions and laws that we must respect. Mr Secretary of Finance. Does it not bother you that, according to the principles of the parliamentary state, the decision-making within the competence of the Riigikogu is attempted by this law to delegate the Riigikogu to the committee created to deal with other matters? You do not think that, for example, an equal mark should be placed between the ESM and the Member States of the European Union? Maybe we're not going to lay the foundations right here at home, so they say the wall got a little ugly after that, huh?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U79	Thank you. I didn't even see if you were in the hall. The content of your question only deepened that feeling. Where do you read all this? I have spoken nicely here, within my capabilities, but I have not spoken of shutting this House off. I have explained the possibilities of this House and the limits of these opportunities for monitoring a specific international organisation. I haven't heard anyone hit me with a few mistakes. It's a state-built explanation. I haven't figured it out myself. The Riigikogu has its own dignified procedures, how it gathers, how MEPs learn early about the gathering, how a bill is presented, how the Riigikogu can consider everything. His dignity is also demonstrated by the fact that our mother tongue is the working language of the Riigikogu. His dignity is also demonstrated by his separation from the executive and by the fact that discussions are public, not confidential, as happens with the ESM. His dignity is also demonstrated by the fact that he must not fail with technical matters. For example, the ESM Treaty is only one quite general text, but it is followed by at least ten regulatory documents and many other regulations. You call this a shut-down of the Riigikogu plenary. I think that if such working documents were brought into the large chamber of the Riigikogu, it would mean that the Riigikogu would be switched into something very ugly and bad. Beware of it. I would not want the Riigikogu to appear ridiculous and the agenda of the sittings to be filled with issues for which the level of legislator is too high, and the legislator would of course not have to carry out an expert opinion, because such expertise is simply not necessary. The authorities are divorced. This does not mean that no one is turned off, neither the government nor the Riigikogu. 17 governments have agreed that their competences and expertise also have limits and involve the European Commission, the IMF and the central bank in very important expertise. The European Central Bank and the European Commission have the exclusive right to propose, because they build up the best expertise. The Riigikogu will never have one. It is very reasonable that the Riigikogu does not have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U80	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In those days, the Financial Times wrote that Wall Street has given its banks a serious warning about the expected collapse of the euro zone. American banks are definitely going to clean their portfolios now. Do you think that the so-called junk bonds released there will find their way to the ESM portfolio, as my colleague Igor Gräzin thought yesterday?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U82	I lost the end of the question. Will the ESM briefcase be released by what? Loans? (Lembit Kaljuvee comments about the floor) The ESM certainly has an investment portfolio, but it is as conservative as the Treasury's, in the sense that the Treasury does not allocate its money to the beneficiary countries, but to those who have already proved that this money is being maintained in a proper manner and whose rating allows it. I think that such colourful, not necessarily pink titles of the Financial Times should not be very concerned by the Riigikogu. It's just a kind of geopolitical push. The European Union and the eurozone are structured differently from the central banking of the US or Anglo-American countries, which can lend to governments relatively unlimited and finance overspending. It has not helped the economy, but it has certainly been easier for governments to spend.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U83	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, At a very high level, it has been said that the stability mechanism created by the ESM could obtain a banking licence. It is known that this would also allow the European Central Bank's resources to be mobilised. That is a matter of principle. If this is the case, the ESM may make less effort to find investors or to take care of its rating. If he doesn't get a license or central bank money, he's gonna have to work harder on his rating, and he's gonna have to worry more about investors, even in order to find investors in America who are currently in short supply. When I asked this in the Commission, ECOFIN had not yet discussed this issue. But it is, in any case, on the agenda, that very authoritative people have spoken on this issue. What is the government's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U85	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. You have a lot of questions. Starts with colleague Tarmo Leinatamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U86	The government has not discussed this; we have not had this issue on the table in Brussels either. What you mentioned about exertion is not the most fundamental here. The main thing is whether the central bank can fund governments, even in this way. This is certainly not in line with the mandate of the central bank. Unconventional techniques have been implemented and are likely to be implemented by the central bank, but discussions on the banking licence have not been reached. Well, I guess it's going to be a pretty serious argument if you want this kind of jock scheme. This isn't the first time they've been trying to do jock schemes. In times of crisis, some compromises are inevitable. Let us see if the debate reaches this stage at all. I know for a fact that there are countries that dream of printing money for the government. This will has always been in proportion to the looseness of fiscal policy. It has not been supported by more financially responsible countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As a result of the previous response, it has also been pointed out in Europe that there is a risk that very many people are living below the poverty line in Estonia. But my question is about Finland. You have said in several interviews that Finnish behaviour is not suitable for Estonia. Finland has set a precedent. Why do you think that so well-respected and strongly country-centred behaviour is not suitable for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U88	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have a little historical background. We remember that when Greece entered the euro zone, such beeps and flashes were such that the data provided that met the Maastricht criteria may not have been objective or correct, or it may have been a falsehood. Do not the Maastricht criteria have mechanisms to call States to order? Later, as slipping became increasingly clear, certain countries went to the dubious markets to borrow money because there was no other way to get the money. Did the European Central Bank or the European Commission not have mechanisms to draw attention to this and perhaps even call these countries to order? The way to put it, a liquid and soft attitude towards fiscal policy has actually led to the current situation in the euro area. Today, Rait Maruste rightly said that if the Maastricht criteria had been met, we should not be sitting here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U89	Thank you. But what kind of behavior and what kind of interviews? Finland is our great friend and firm ally behind the table. If you read the closest allies, then Germany and Holland are the ones we think of in the same way. I don't always have to praise them, but our eyes speak one language. You are probably referring to the fact that, when Finland was in electoral fever (I refer to it again), all the attention in the political debate was drawn to indigenousism. This resulted in quite a peculiar request for a guarantee for EFSF loans. I believe that this could also be the case with the Greek aid package. Speaking of the reactions of the Member States, I must say that I was not the only one. Maybe I was first or second, but others had the same reaction. Austria, too, can be considered to be an ideological ally in this sense to a large extent, even though there may be less clarity. No one thinks that when money is given together, it makes sense that one member receives a guarantee. That's how it worked out. Of course, the political situation in Finland was taken forward jointly. The Finns, of course, did not come to impose this electoral rhetoric on others, but they received a solution that responded to the issues on the agenda during the elections. This solution was a guarantee that no one else would want and that would be expensive. It's always the case that who laughs later can laugh better, but also when someone laughs first, there's a problem. This solution did not find a good reception in Finland either, considering everything that was said on the subject. The result could not be that one country would receive a guarantee, it was clear to everyone, but that was what was said. The possibility of receiving this guarantee was granted to all. But everyone knows that when everyone starts asking for a guarantee, it is absurd, because the only real guarantee is the credibility of the state, its contracts and the durability of justice. But to sum up, Finland received 40% of the guarantee, thereby losing interest income and must immediately pay up all the capital of the ESM. We don't know what's gonna happen. In the end, they may somehow get 40% back separately, but this is not the norm in Europe. If that's the result, then it's not something very beautiful.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U90	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U91	Thank you. Rait Maruse really did say very right, and you are asking very right too. That's how I started my report. That's right. True, this hearing should have taken place 10 years ago. It must also be recalled from my report that one thing is the observance of agreed rules and, where necessary, the sanctioning of infringements, and the other is the creation of this stability mechanism. There's a lot of reasons. The single currency means a rather rigid system where countries, for example, have to act in a somewhat synchronised manner in fiscal and macroeconomic policies at large. We have harmonised these things. I cannot tell you how much we have discussed this in the Riigikogu's plenary, how much the decisions and laws of the Riigikogu are behind here, but supervision has in itself begun to work freshly. We are already coordinating our economic policy with the European Commission, and we are also discussing it between finance ministers. There are countries that have been unpleasantly surprised, but have not been able to realise their opposition, say this. But it's not a real ESM issue, it's a broader background. The ESM is one of the missing stones in the foundation of Europe. A missing stone, a forgotten stone, something that would have been necessary ten years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U92	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U93	I'll take the word. If the ESM is part of the European Foundation, my question is as follows. The euro area is not known to mean the European Union. Solidarity in the euro area and solidarity in the European Union have often sounded like expressions. In the first half of the year, the government's rhetoric turned out that the debate on joining the ESM would try to speak out solidarity in other areas, such as agricultural subsidies, so that they would be the same in all countries, including the Baltic States. At the moment, our subsidies are much lower. Did we at least try to speak out for ourselves here in the ESM negotiation process, because this would have been a good opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U94	Thank you. The polite way of negotiating, which results, is not to be seen on any subject, but to remain within the scope of a given subject. Everyone understands that matters are politically related, and Estonia has the solidarity to be the more complicated, the more unsolidary the membership on other matters. But you don't say it like that. As far as agricultural subsidies are concerned, it has been my job to challenge their size. My last negotiations on this topic were in mid-July and made a very encouraging impression. The initial distribution plan, which was already out of the box of negotiations, thrown out of the negotiating topics, you know what it means to go back there. This meeting took place with the President-in-Office. When we speak to individual countries, we are understood. We are also understood by the European Commission. That's what I do, that's what I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U95	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U96	Thank you. Good minister! I have a question about the ESM objectives. If we look at Article 3 of the Treaty, we will see that it says that aid is provided in the event of a combination of two criteria: if it is essential for the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and its Member States. Knowing a little of the influence of the Estonian economy or its role in the economy of the euro area as a whole, I cannot imagine how Estonia's potential financial problems can become so great that they affect the stability of the euro area as a whole, i.e. what would happen if saving Estonia were necessary for the euro area as a whole. So my question is this: is this mechanism intended solely to save large economies, and it justifies this wording of the ESM, both when it comes to those in need and when it comes to voting procedures, where decision-making powers are left to large economies, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U97	Thank you. Let us just say that the Eurosceptics have given you this question. The answer is certainly that the mechanism is not intended precisely to save large countries, because it cannot do so. It'd be German to pull yourself out of a swamp. That's not possible. Too big an undertaking is certainly not feasible for this fund. There is no separate section dedicated to Estonia, but everyone understands that all Member States formally have this right. Secondly, in the financial world, there is still the fact that unpleasant surprises create financial instability. Adding to the whole country's list will certainly create instability. Estonia is a country of enough size; it is a country of full size to create it. Bad news, especially from a country that has so far been heard only good news in the financial world, is overthrowing markets and severely aggravating economic activity. The difficulties of some small countries have already been taken into account by the markets. I am thinking here of Cyprus, which is not yet a customer country, but the probability of becoming a customer country is, like, written on a wall. The markets are already taking this into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U98	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. What do you think is the probability that Estonia may need ESM assistance in the near future? If that were to be the case, under what conditions would Estonia receive this assistance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U100	Thank you. I am going political now, but I am going to say that this is not an option during this government. I do not know what the next government is, of course, but we have stood for all these risks to be mitigated, for the loan not to be taken simply for the sake of a better life or at the expense of children, and for the state not to try to make everyone equally happy, for example, with child support, which was already mentioned here this morning. Universal grants are one of the things recommended in general budgetary and macro-prudential supervision not to pay. In the case of Estonia, this has not been very emphasised, but the linking of the tax-free minimum to the number of children has also been discussed. Support based on needs is still what is already being recommended in Europe for the Member States, also for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U101	Thank you. This connection is undoubtedly moral and political. The Skeptics' voice was already in this Chamber today, quoting one of the sceptics' opinions. I don't know why they're called experts. It says again in Delfi today that the expert will answer. It is a raging Eurosceptic propaganda, not an expert opinion. Unfortunately, it was also represented in the Supreme Court. They say that the European Union is no longer the same. I'm sorry, you can't walk into the same river twice, because the river isn't the same. The European Union is changing all the time. It is exceptionally immoral to take the view that we did not know that we had to do anything, that we came here to get the money. Now that you have to bet yourself on the loan form, I stress, it is believed that it is time to pull aside, to say no, we didn't count on it, we thought you just wanted to give us the help you couldn't repay. That is the logic that these so-called experts represent now. You try arguing with them! I had no problem answering 18 questions in half an hour, but in almost a week these answers have not yet been published. They just write some crap and then they write that the expert will ask or the expert will answer. There's supposed to be a moral. This relationship is that the European Union has agreed that the single currency is the duty of its members, unless otherwise agreed in individual cases, as the British have done or those countries where a referendum, such as Denmark or Sweden, is a condition. Speaking of Latvia, I will say once again that Latvia is aspiring to the euro zone. Do others get less? The answer is yes, they get less. Estonia gets more than others. It will receive more and more non-refundable assistance than it will receive in several times the amount of funding allocated to the ESM. That's it. We are, in any case, net recipients. You can't compare a loan with a grant. These are not comparable things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U102	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U103	Thank you. Estonia is a European country with 70% of exports to Europe. The weakening of the euro will contribute 0% here. What about the other 30%? The reality is that the euro has been a very stable currency. Despite the fluctuations in the last few years, he has continued to grow stronger against the dollar. In Europe as a whole, this export has not in itself favoured, but it has provided a great deal of stability and confidence in investing here and simply delivering here. This has reduced operating costs, etc. If you go on the devalve path, I think it was decided in 1992 that there would be no devaluation, then there would also be direct costs. We're big energy importers, but energy prices are in dollars. We are importers of raw materials, but the prices of raw materials are also in dollars. This subject of devaluation or course lowering has been so calculated. If the Latvian economy really was facing a wall and only the black moods prevailed, then the IMF, where this ideology is strongly embedded, spoke of black devalue. I was the one who argued against it. But afterwards, it has been said that thank God it wasn't done because, in devaluation, the decline in the course still has a demeaning effect on the general standard of living. The loss of value of savings, the reduction in investment • all of these things are initially a setback. The main thing that hits a small country hard is the loss of trust. A course that is unsure does not attract and does not want to transfer economic activity to such a country. This is crucial in the case of a small country. I don't agree with Igor, but what the hell. I think I agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U104	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U105	Thank you. Mr. Minister! With the ESM, we are not so much saving countries and nations, not even the euro, but we are saving large private banks who have taken disastrous risks in the name of greater profits. We will correct the mistakes made by the banks and save the hugely paid leaders and politicians of investment funds. Why would a small, poor and immensely cut Estonia's debt to its taxpayers be unlimited? After all, the ESM has been given the right to require the funds to be carried out to an unlimited extent and at any time. This process is irreversible, must be carried out unconditionally and cannot be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U106	Thank you. Where did you read that? I saw you read something. But where do you get all that you read? How am I supposed to answer where I'm supposed to start? I don't remember all your claims, there weren't any correct statements. First of all, Estonia assumes only very limited obligations. Secondly, I will certainly say that the circulation of the economy is banks, not bank owners. If banks are to be supported (this option exists, among other things, in the ESM), then it will be done to save basic blood circulation, economic activity, and people's money will be saved. In order to be clearer, I say that there is also going to be a rescue of pensioners' money, pension funds' money, and corporate money, but companies are giving people jobs. But it is the bank owners who are hit. In your statements, there was a small point in saying that, indeed, the number of bank managers is not unlimited, they tend to find work again. True, many find themselves unemployed. But they're going to save people's and state's money, economic activity, not banker's money. If you go to rescue at all, it's not the ESM's main activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U107	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U108	Thank you. Dear Minister, Solutions certainly need to be sought, but it seems that in the case of the ESM, finding an appropriate legal form has become a stumbling block, including that we are discussing ratification and implementation together. I have a question about § 2 (3), where it is mentioned that the Riigikogu may decide to carry out financing transactions (we hope that this situation will not actually come) in excess of the amounts determined in the state budget. The government must then submit an additional draft budget to the Riigikogu. The following sentence follows: 'The processing of the Additional Budget Bill does not prevent the implementation of the Riigikogu decision. " In other words, we make just like a formal decision, where we no longer have a choice. There may still be such contradictions here. The generalized question is this: are you convinced that all these implementation provisions have been properly worked out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U109	Thank you. I'm saying they've been overworked. They've been trying to make clear things out of wood and red. In fact, the functioning of the Estonian state is recounted, including that if the Riigikogu adopts a law, be it the pension law or the ordinary budget law, it must be financed, this obligation must be fulfilled. That is what the commitment is about. One of the great things that has emerged from the telecoms of another member of the Riigikogu is that it is not really understood what the Ministry of Finance is for and what the state budget is for. It doesn't make sense that these are routine operations. As far as possible, efforts have been made to budget the commitments made by the State (these commitments may take the form of a contract, a law or any other act) and there are certain loose ends, such as estimated costs. We can never write a final pension into the budget. For this purpose, the Ministry of Finance has been set up, from which the draft state budget must come in such a way that all lines are of maximum size, but there would also be a buffer. There is, for example, a cash reserve limit, which the Riigikogu confirms and the size of which is developed on the basis of numerous and very different commitments made by the state. There is a cash deposit limit, you can borrow more in the middle of the year if taxes are not added as quickly as disbursements. That's how this country works. If necessary, reserves will be processed or loans will be taken. But when the Riigikogu takes a decision, it is not ex post violence against the Riigikogu and the state. That's the honest structure of the country. After all, I have argued with members of the Riigikogu on various topics in several positions. Members of the Riigikogu often feel that the state budget is one of the great political will. The first thing we did in the mid-1990s was forbade our own and, afterwards, others to increase their revenue forecasts and reduce their balance. But the role of the Riigikogu in dealing with the budget must increasingly be interpreted in the direction that the decisions made never cease to exist if there is some surprise that something costs more. The state budget must be brought into line with the commitments made even afterwards, and it cannot always be done forward. If this fails, it is likely that you will have to go to the Supreme Court or find some other legal solution for fulfilling the promise. That's one of the reasons why promises have to be really cheap.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U110	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U111	Thank you. Dear waitress, In your presentation, you made a request, in a sense, that this draft be dealt with in a prescribed form and not divided into two things: ratification of an international agreement and a change in the so-called internal mechanism. In my opinion, the reasoning was not very convincing. It is still the old custom that there will be cluster billing and that completely different things will be tried to put into one bill. Do you not see the possibility of separating these two issues by making separate drafts and, if not, why, in the view of the Ministry and your minister, is it essential that they stay together?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U112	Thank you. Good minister! First of all, I would like to agree with your criticism of the decision on the state aid features of Eesti Energia regarding the expansion of the share capital. However, unfortunately, I cannot agree in the same way with the draft that has been brought before us. The ESM is not a matter for the European Union. With this draft, we are trying to give the European Union Affairs Commission a very large number of mandates, which are not in accordance with our law on home and working procedures. The Constitution clearly states that the competence of Riigikogu committees is determined by the Rules of Procedure Act. What is the reason why such a draft law, which is extremely little in contact with the Constitution, has been brought before us? Is the reason why it is feared that 51 votes cannot be met?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U113	I'm sorry, I didn't understand everything this little contact with the Constitution meant, but the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provide for a specific role for ELAK. ELAK has shown that he is working: he goes together in the summer, gathers when needed, understands things, asks practical questions. The House's practice is different; there is no immediate meeting here; the Rules of Procedure do not allow it. ELAK has been created as a buffer between the executive and the legislator; this House simply does not fit into a buffer between itself and the government. He has a different rhythm, different dignity, different tasks. There is nothing basically added to the ELAK, that is my argument. In life, it has been tried to make the country more comfortable and more efficient. If the state creates a thing or joins what it considers necessary, then it should not start throwing sticks into it, in such a way that all the procedures of the Riigikogu must always be carried out and when 17 countries have decided something, I will raise my hand and say that, you know, we will not, we will have this House to see when it comes together. ELAK will be given nothing but the right to send more things together than naturally and undisputedly belongs to them. If ELAK sees any doubts, states have been added or significant changes have been made, it will, of course, take this decision in order to bring the matter to its full. I'm sure of it, but what say I am. So much for saying that I have been in this Chamber longer than most people and I know the limits of the competence of the Riigikogu and the legislator in terms of the Constitution. The authorities must be separate, the working forms of the authorities, the expertise and the apparatus are very different. The power of law is definitely so much higher that it should not let itself get into the details; it should not simply rush over the fingertips when some detail needs to be fixed. If, for example, Portugal has completed some of the memorandum items and this point is crossed off the next list of commitments, will we come together, we will deal with this item and then say that this House is involved and Parliamentaryism is saved? Let us still be respectful of Parliament. I myself am with a parliamentary mandate, and I have been before.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U114	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U115	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! You told me earlier about the separation of powers. Today, the legislator has on the table an ESM Treaty. We've been talking about the ESM for a long time. That's my question. When the treaty negotiations started and the first, second, third and fourth versions of the draft were on the move, did Estonia, I am thinking of the executive, see any risks, did there be any amendments and, if so, what they were and what happened to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U116	If you mean developing the ESM Treaty, Estonia was involved in it and made comments of course. One of these has been written in a bit of a gruesome form in today's Eesti Päevaleht, but it was not as easy to go against everyone alone. No such recommendations were made at home either, but the result was that we received a smaller share until 2023, when this smaller participation would probably no longer have moral justification, because by then we are forecasted to have reached the average level of our GDP and therefore this central bank key will no longer peel us in terms of solvency. Perhaps it should be said that the central bank's key to 50% is taken into account in terms of population and 50% of GDP is also monetary income. For good reason, I was contradicted that if you get the monetary income, how does it fit there, but now all of a sudden it doesn't work. These are different things. In the case of EFSF, this was automatically taken into account as the right thing and the EFSF was built in this way. On the other hand, we have little to do with this monetary income from a budgetary point of view. After all, however, we are taking on, say, a cash-in-budget burden and, what we are denying there, the risks of this particular contribution. The central bank makes money, we have to make money. There is a very large difference that has guaranteed them, let's say, certain advantages.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U117	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U118	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Finance! The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu does not specify what a recommendation is. However, this bill does talk about the possibility for the government to ask the Riigikogu or ELAK for recommendations. The draft also states that the representative of the Republic of Estonia does not have to take these recommendations into account under certain conditions. Isn't there a contradiction here? What is the point of asking for suggestions if they are not taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U119	Thank you. There is no contradiction here. A suggestion is a thing that is not an order. In certain cases, it is appropriate to do so. In the course of the procedure, you can talk it out a little bit. The recommendation of Parliament or the committee, of course, has a very strong political charge in it. It will not be forgiven if they are not listened to if the whole government does not follow the word or the suggestion, figuratively speaking. But the government has its own responsibility, certain different considerations and a different knowledge base. That's one thing. I would be happy to open this up in some of the meetings of the Commission. But the recommendation also means, in the most practical sense, that negotiations cannot be negotiated with completely rigid positions, but that the negotiations must also listen to the opinions of others and consider them realistically, let us say so. Can't go with closed eyes and ears and tied hands and say we came to discuss things. The recommendation is strong support. This can and will be made an excuse even demagogically for partners. At the events of finance ministers, it is quite common that, during the evening, it is still more than ten times that our Parliament and our Parliament cannot and we do not have it, and we need it for Parliament, etc. It is also a means of exerting pressure on partners. The suggestion can help in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U120	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Have you also discussed in the circle of finance ministers the potential interest of third countries in European countries in crisis, such as China's interest in Spanish banking? How much does the formation of the ESM protect against this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U122	Thank you. Everyone understands that a commitment has been made, that joining the euro area is a common cause and that it is largely a matter of reputation. Small currencies are more volatile. No one is happy about the joint contribution, of course, but everyone also understands that the creation of the ESM is necessary. Joining the euro area is more about fulfilling the criteria than doing the will or plan. The following are listed in the order: Latvia and Poland. I have seen news somewhere, but I cannot confirm that the Latvian Parliament has discussed the ESM. They cannot formally join, but they have discussed it and very passionately. If that's not true, I'm sorry, but that's how I put it on the news. The fact is that all the countries of the European Union were at the table at their final meetings. They took the floor and even more than they had to. A couple of people I had to calm down to calm down, it's none of his business, it doesn't represent the eurozone country, and it's more of an observer status, so let us go on. But two or three people had intense phone negotiations with their home bosses to find out what they were allowed to do, and everyone was waiting for them. That's right. The ESM is a European event, but above all a faster European event.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U123	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U124	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Before joining, the strength and credibility of the euro were highlighted as positive and it was said that if, for financial reasons, the kroon was devaluation, for example, the repercussions it would have on home borrowers or savings. Today, less than two years have passed since joining the euro, and around the world, economic experts are increasingly talking about devalued the euro. You have answered Mr Allik's question of devaluation from the point of view of the small country's own currency. My question to you is this: what would the devaluation of the euro lead to for the European and Estonian economies?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U125	Thank you. I tried to explain that for Estonia, it is still our economic environment. This environment is fluctuating with us, regardless of whether we have a fixed monetary rate or the euro. The devalue of the euro cannot be said, but it can be said about the volatility of the euro's exchange rate. The euro has gradually risen when fluctuations have been evened out, but its reputation is, of course, currently undervalued. The euro is a good currency, a very suitable and natural trading tool for Estonia. We have certainly won in the sense that mistrustful investors do not ask when we devalue, and we are now clear to the little informed investors. I will be honest with you that, as a common citizen, it is much more pleasant to travel to countries where we have the same money. Even if we wanted to put money in that country. We'd be really worried because we wouldn't understand how it works out there, what exactly is that buggy out there. For us, the crown was a very sweet and beautiful thing, very suspicious for others. This undoubtedly hampered the economy much more than it was worth during the crisis. So let us not now question the euro.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U126	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U127	Thank you. Dear Minister, Twenty years ago, Estonia joined the IMF. These rules of procedure and national mechanisms have not yet been opposed by the Estonian public and are beautifully satisfied with them. Of course, our financial participation in the ESM is much greater. Can you confirm that these tougher rules and a different decision-making process in the ESM can give us confidence that Estonia's interests are at least as well protected in the ESM as they are in the IMF?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U128	Thank you. It seems to me that we can safely bring this parallel, despite the fact that there is some kind of lunar shift in constitutional terms. The IMF has not lost money. As far as the contribution to the IMF is concerned, it was at a certain time well above 4% of GDP. Right now, we're talking about size a little over 9%, if I'm not mistaken. There's a double difference. It looks big, but we're gonna put more money into the IMF, or at least there's some kind of decision-making. It really does not make sense to me why a subject with a very clear analogy with another subject is attached to such a large watch. It was not for my birthday in the morning, but for the fact that we had won the ESM at the Supreme Court. Imagine being seen by a stranger on the street and wishing me happiness: 'This is the great victory of the Estonian people, congratulations, very good! ' I don't understand why it has to be written in my face. It is a traditional international cooperation and a traditional international organisation. We do the same thing in a number of reconstruction banks without some big shit, it's done by a simple majority, there are no extraordinary procedures or hedges. We are doing this, and no one has challenged it. Now all of a sudden, people are coming up on the street, the government is in court, Parliament is discussing it in front of the cameras. That won't be necessary. Relax, let's put things in their natural dimensions! We are doing this in our own interests and in the interests of European cooperation. We do not do this the way the IMF does it for the benefit of the whole world: in Africa, in South America and elsewhere. We do it in our yard and in our economic environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U129	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law, rather than proposing amendments to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, refers to this law incorrectly in several places. Is the reason why the government does not propose to amend the law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu lies in the need of 51 votes that the government is not sure about meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U131	It was only your question that was incorrect. I have not called the Rules of Procedure law incorrect. On the contrary, I said that you must uphold the dignity of the Riigikogu, do not reverse it for the sake of some ESM, which is nothing extraordinary in the sense of parliamentaryism, the structure of the state and the financial risks. This is one of the many things the Estonian state does or could at least do. As far as 51 votes are concerned, it does not matter whether it is the ratification of the Rules of Procedure Act or the ESM, because both need 51 votes. So it wasn't a valid question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U132	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U133	Thank you. I don't have to accept this formulation. I have to take note of that, but I don't have to accept it. If one stone has ever been forgotten in the European Union, that does not mean that if we put it in place, it will now be new and different. The ESM is a logical part of the European Union that was never built. It does not distort the basic structure of Europe, but it improves its malformations and reduces risks, not reducing them, but increasing budgetary choices. This point in the Constitution, that international treaties and budgetary commitments are not put to referendum, is almost a blessing from God, because trouble could be very serious. Such votes are highly manipulative. It is so easy to instil people that we put money in Greece and not give it to our people. But life has shown that it is very difficult to instil that we are enormously dependent on how Europe as a whole is doing. Our prosperity depends on it, our poverty depends on how Europe is doing. Our jobs, our incomes, and security in general depend on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U134	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U135	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You've had a very busy summer. I understand that you are trying to make financially useful decisions for Estonia, but you are a little arrogant about democratic processes. You have had an exchange of views not only in Estonia but also in Germany, for example with the chairman of the Bavarian taxpayers' association, who was also surprised at your approach to democracy. You gave him a public answer, in which you said, among other things, that you have the right to teach Germany because, given the size of your economy, Estonians bear the greatest burden in the ESM. Would you expand this response in this Chamber of Riigikogu: why are Estonians carrying the biggest burden in the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U136	Look, I haven't had any discussion with any of the Bavarians, and I've been expressing my thoughts, but he's just being crude. I have nothing more to blame for Germany than sometimes drinking too much beer there. To Germany, I have failed nothing. I have answered a number of questions during a specific interview. I can assure you that I have given a few dozen interviews to the German press. Feedback has been such that the reputation of Estonian finances in Germany is probably very high in relation to these interviews as well. I have no reproach for Germany. But the two questions that have been knotted somewhere in the beer hall and in the Internet are, in general, as follows. There were overlapping issues, but these are basically the issues. The first question: how do we feel about other countries making decisions so slowly and we have to help them? We made our own decisions so boldly, and now we have to help others. I said yes, I don't take it well. We have the right to demand decisions from other countries, and mechanisms have been put in place for this in Europe. Secondly, we also have the moral right to do so, as you rightly said, because we ourselves have made these decisions. The second question, which was completely separate from the first, concerned the German Constitutional Court: are we concerned that the German court will decide so slowly? This issue was on the agenda in Germany, the German Minister for Finance has complained about this problem and has called on the court to decide more quickly. I answered this ex-ju question essentially in this way (this answer was also partly mentioned), that yes, it is not a good sign, I do not know what this court has done so far, because the information has long existed, but it is my business to persuade the parliament of my own country to act faster. This shit that's been screwed up in a beer cellar somewhere isn't the kind of thing I need to talk to somebody about. I didn't start with the unhappy one who published a relatively crude inscription about Estonia or the Estonian-named aunt who quickly wrote an opinion article of the same style, Aino S. or who she was. I've published a few missing sentences from my answer. But it's exactly like the less you know, the more easily you say about the government, it got in a bucket, just like it was in that little story next door. I am not yesterday, I am not going to make any accusations or demands to the German Supreme Court, even though there have been such interpretations. I'm not yesterday. However, as Minister of Finance, I am making demands for budgetary policy in other countries in a solidarity, collective and institutional manner already. There is a mechanism for this in Europe. Nobody gets our money for nothing, the conditions have to be met. So don't think I'm quite stupid, even if you think you're much smarter. I still have some kind of wisdom.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U137	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U138	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Finance! Do you honestly believe that the ESM will solve the real problems of the European economy in the long term (i would emphasise this word) rather than delay the solution to the substantive problems and some of the states' insolvency, which will ultimately cause much greater damage to the European economy and the countries that joined the ESM will be poorer by their disbursements and guarantees? Today, only one solution will be brought to the debate in the Riigikogu, either that or nothing against it, which is against the European Union. My question is this: do you think that the ESM is the only and most correct solution to the problems encountered in the European Union and why are we not discussing alternative constructive solutions in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U139	Thank you. I'm always terribly sorry if the questions we've written before don't have anything to do with the debate. I have not said in half a word that the ESM is the only solution, that it is the solution itself. It's oxygen for the sick and nothing else. It'll give you time, it'll give you nothing but oxygen to do your homework. Economic problems are, of course, much deeper than financial problems. They are intertwined with finances, but they are not all financial problems. These are also the problems that I mentioned earlier: excessive universal subsidies, too anti-economic tax systems, a social system that is over-perceived in a broader sense, not only in terms of budgetary expenditure, but also in terms of incentives for work. There is a great deal of these things: the opening up of the European single market, the overall innovative capacity in Europe. Here's a very long list of topics. I have not said that the ESM will solve all of Europe's problems and that this is the one and only solution that must be taken or left, and who will leave, it is against the European Union. I'm sorry, but that's not an appropriate question. I never thought I'd say anything like that. I am a relatively critical person for Europe. I wouldn't have figured out an ESM. I wouldn't have come up with that. But I have done so much of this work and I have contributed so much to these compromises that I can say that the summary is this: there is no alternative in this sense. If we want stability in Europe, if we want economic stability, then we obviously need more oxygen. No better ideas have been received. That's the only reason I'm here with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U140	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U141	Thank you. Dear Minister, Before any decision that is so important, it would make sense to consider whether there is a retreat. Does the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism provide for the possibility of leaving it, is there a way out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U142	Thank you. I would argue that an application must be made, preferably in written form. But that doesn't mean we have to set up a procedure to get away at the time of accession. The purpose of this meeting is to build trust, to show Europe united on very nervous markets and political figures, but not to say that you know, if it gets messy, we're still gonna get lost, we're gonna borrow everything from the market on our capital basis, but then we're gonna pull our money, then take a look at it. I think that would be impractical. Organisations are often created in such a way that if there is a consensus that this is a necessary thing and if there is a need to demonstrate this consensus, there is no need to share property. I don't want to give you this example, but in the case of marriage, it's not like people don't share property at the altar. A faster Europe and the euro zone are still one form of partnership.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U143	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U144	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. Most of today's questions have been borne directly or indirectly by the concern that the money with which Estonia participates in this new organisation may fall out of the fingers and may be worse. But the explanatory memorandum also speaks very seriously about the possibility that, in the case of effective management, the ESM will pay dividends to owners. How likely are you to assess such an opportunity yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U145	This is once again the choice of a noble Riigikogu. Immuggling is an interesting thing, and in the sense of attention, it is often essential when there are no other means. But in my speech, I spoke about financial market rules that poor Estonia cannot change. These are just such things: stock market rules and financial logic. As noble as this, I do not think that the members of the Riigikogu will say anything to anyone or leave the room until the market transaction has taken place. I think they're free people. The regulations simply have to take this into account. That's it. What are these secret sessions of the Riigikogu supposed to mean? The big idea in this House is that everything is public, everything can be debated. Where is the public if not even the decisions can be printed? What will happen to the content of the debate when it comes to discussing financial engineering matters? There's at least two sides to it. There is no need to come together, figuratively speaking, on the fingertips of Brussels and to start discussing immediately, even though nothing is understood and the documents have not been translated. All of this is described by the Constitution, one of its principal principles being the separation of powers. There's no point in overreacting. The government also does not overdo it; it has delegated the power of expertise and direct powers (of course, not once and for all, on the basis of existing agreements, the Riigikogu must all confirm it) to the central bank, the European Commission and even the IMF. So we're not omnipotent at all. We're just doing a little different work, other methods and a different apparatus. Your dignity is greater, you must make great decisions and general supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U146	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U147	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Ligi! You said that the importance of the ESM has been overrated and the public's attention to the ESM is disproportionate. Has the Estonian state entered into foreign agreements with a greater financial impact on the budget of the Republic of Estonia than 1.3 billion euros? What could be more important to Estonia's finances and economic stability than the stability of the euro, the euro area and the economic environment in the European Union? At all, why do you have the ambition to prescribe to the Riigikogu and the public what is important to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U148	Thank you. Where did you read it again? I've explained patiently. First of all, the budget burden is not what you imagine. On the issue of non-proportionality, I can give an example even of the Chancellor of Justice's speech. One of the strangest places in his speech was when he spoke about the occupation of Estonia through the ESM. I'm sorry! In fact, the argument he put forward was correct in several points invalid. Although the members of the Supreme Court expressed quite a number of differences of opinion in one narrow area, which seemed to support him, the judgment did not support him. But if it had been taken as sticks what he claimed, it would have been seen that it was disproportionate. It is not right to talk about the occupation of Estonia through our own cooperation, it is not correct to say that the commitments cover a third or a quarter of the budget (both sums have been mentioned). This is completely out of proportion. Liabilities scattered over 10, 20 or 30 years cannot be comparable to one state budget, at least they cannot be fairly comparable. Realistically speaking, this EUR 1.3 billion cannot continue to be played. It cannot be said that Estonia is almost alone with five other countries in the middle of the square and only pays, and everyone else would have said no, forget it. That's not realistic. It has been disproportionate to say that the ESM procedures would be different in some way and that the fulfilment of obligations would be different from the execution of many other obligations provided for in the State Budget Act. This has all been disproportionate. These public letters and complaints about the surrender of independence have been disproportionate. It has also been disproportionate, as the members of the Riigikogu have said, that this agreement is confusing, there is no understanding at all how it is financed and so on. Your mistake, if you don't know. If you have not known so far how to finance the payment of pensions or salaries, this is a mistake. But don't blame the ESM for that. Not all members of the Riigikogu can know everything. It's been disproportionate, I'm sticking to that opinion. The European Union, as I have said many times and tried to tell you even after you had already written your question, is very important to us. Europe's stability is very important to us, and it is very important to participate in it in solidarity. There's no disproportion. We are also the ones who, in my speech, I said this, who are most dependent on the stability of Europe. This was demonstrated by the financial crisis. Only Latvia suffered more, but this was due to its major mistakes. In terms of size, he could have endured better because of his openness and small size, we are more vulnerable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U149	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U150	Thank you. Good minister! You stressed that the ESM is a standard form of interparliamentary cooperation. But a lot of organisations and experts have claimed that we are still moving towards the United States of Europe and are losing an important part of our independence. How would you disprove it? I also ask that the persons involved in the ESM, from the Board of Governors to the alternates, are essentially inviolable in their work. They cannot be held accountable, they are, as if, outside the legal system and their activities are classified. How do you control all this? It's still an incredibly powerful contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U151	Thank you. I'm in trouble with cluster issues because I don't have a pen to write down all the pearls. I certainly have not said that this is a form of cooperation between parliaments, I said that it is a form of cooperation between states. Rather, I would like to say that Parliaments cannot do this, they are not suitable for this output or for this, let us say, a point of contact between countries. For this purpose, there are persons authorised by governments. Parliament's control of the matter is more general. I can't talk about independence all the time. These questions, it seems, have been answered. However, one aspect of financial centralisation is still what I would say to Igor, whether it be a socialist revolution or a counter-social revolution, but, in fact, responsibility in Europe at large is the result of all of this. The ESM must be seen as an opportunity to organise European public finances and collectively dictate responsibility to each other. Estonia is in a very comfortable position; no one will dictate anything to us for a long time. We'll last a long time, we can do more stupid things before it backfires. I'm not suggesting anything stupid, but we're a long way from dictation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U152	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U153	Thank you, good waitress, for very good explanations. There's also a very good explanatory note on the bill, which I suggest you all read. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum remains minor in relation to subsection 5 (2) (2) of the draft, which provides for a special procedure in the event that the "publication may jeopardise the objective of granting ESM stability support'. Would you be so kind as to explain how it would look in practice in Estonia if there was a need to implement § 5 (2) (2) of the draft? Is it not, however, that the crisis has partly been caused by politicians noticing what the markets have long seen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U154	The purpose of this section is to regulate such matters, the confidentiality of which depends on financial stability. I can't tell you how often these things happen, but basically, any intervention in the markets is an extremely careful secret, because it's easy to abuse that secret. Markets depend on certain decisions, and they must not become aware of these actions too soon. I'm sure of it, but I can't explain it any further. Maybe an example. In more troubled times, finance ministers meet on weekends. It's not comfortable at all, but the only reason is that there's no trouble, information doesn't move, and by Monday morning, when the markets open, the decisions will be known. Financial decisions must be made in silence in the cabinet, which others could otherwise abuse, they could earn a lot of money or save their investments, whatever, depending on how the market could currently behave. The markets are not rational, the markets are irrational and unfair in alarming situations. In this sense, it is justified that countries do not rely on any of the ideals of the free market economy, but on a reality in which large assets, including pension funds for pensioners, can, to a large extent, simply disappear, not completely, because of some piece of information. Confidentiality plays an important role in financial stability.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Several countries have requested assistance and their ratings are low. You said that in order to solve this problem, countries must do their own homework and make financial and structural changes. But surely these countries, too, have cooperation partners in the form of the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank or the IMF. We also have a little experience with EFSF. What would it be now that the ESM applies to all of us and what you and your colleagues have discussed, how this cooperation, understanding each other in helping countries could be even more effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U156	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U157	I don't think I've analysed this process best. Everyone has seen it and participated in it. Maybe I'm one of the most seniors at the table, in the first three of them for sure. I think everybody's learning. Well, I've learned a lot in the last five years. It is a completely new Europe, a new Europe in a good way, which we will get when we deal with correcting mistakes. This is not new to its fundamental principles, which would require a different assessment of accession, but in terms of operation and risks. I'm not very good at answering you, as usual.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U158	Thank you. Certain countries are also ready to extend their help under some additional political conditions. I'm not gonna point the finger, but I'm gonna say there's more to the east than there is to the west. The stakes are different and these options have been discussed. For example, there has been discussion about the leverage of the EFSF in order to raise other capital, there has been talk about increasing the IMF's capacity. One part of the firewall is increasing Europe's contribution to the IMF by EUR 200 billion, of which EUR 150 billion comes from the euro area. Eurozone is not the only one helping. The EU budget contributes EUR 60 billion to aid packages, Great Britain, Denmark, Sweden, and with some concessions Poland also contributes to supporting Ireland. But more than real help has been a self-sustaining fingertip, which should show that all the problems take place in the euro zone, that things have to be handled, but others are doing well. The reality is that the credit burden and deficit of the euro area are often lower than those of the indicators. But it's a kind of geopolitical napping that's good at home. That's what it looks like to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U159	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U160	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! You said in your report today that the risk that the guarantees we give will be realised is low. What's small? Maybe it's small for you, but it's big for someone else. For example, has Estonian financial analysts provided an appropriate assessment of the likelihood, size and significance of the risk? Or are you simply relying on your personal opinion based on your life experience and intuition? Or maybe the Board of Directors of the ESM has given you a strong recommendation to tell us that the risk is low, we believe and push the button? How's the risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U161	Thank you. This is certainly not the same reasoning as whether a cent is money for a poor person or not. It is still a matter of risk analysis and the structure of this organisation, which allows such a word to be used entirely without remorse. There is a very high level of equity, very strong supervision and a wider range of financial management with very low risk. In turn, even the thorough procedures of this urgent procedure take risks down. This is an over-guarantee. If, in order to guarantee the loan capacity of EUR 500 billion, capital is put together, figuratively, EUR 700 billion, then it is a huge guarantee. You can use that word. It's a very pretty word, and it's also suitable as a half-baked term.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U162	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, This year's state budget includes a contribution of EUR 30 million to the ESM. When it was said at first that these contributions would be made within five years, there are now two and a half years. Does this mean that our contribution for this year should be twice as high? If so, how does the government plan to resolve this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U164	Thank you. The government is planning to honour the arrangements. When I made the deal, it was me. My addition here was to take into account and respect domestic procedures. The faster contribution was decided by the heads of state, whose position is higher than mine, of course, immeasurably higher. The idea was nothing more than to reassure the markets more strongly. The home procedure certainly means that if the Riigikogu starts coming together again, we will also come here with a proposal to change the state budget. If the Riigikogu supports this change, we can pay twice. This is not such a rigid obligation. Morally, of course, this is a promise, but everyone knows that the other side of the sentence is also black in white: respecting domestic procedures, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U165	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U166	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Finance! I'll continue on the subject of the deposit. You said a few questions back that we were going to make a contribution to the reserves. However, when we read the budget strategy, it says that the financing needs of the central government are covered by financial reserves. It also points out that the impact of the EFSF is expected to lead to an increase in government debt. The budget strategy states that financial transactions, including contributions to the share capital increase of ESM and Eesti Energia, will also have a significant impact on cash flows in 2013, which is why the government debt burden will increase to 11% of GDP in 2013. What are these contributions actually paid into the ESM? From the strategy, I'm counting on an increase in debt. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U167	Thank you. You must have got it right. Everything seemed to be in place. Of course, as soon as we make some kind of debt move, we can transfer it to the ESM account, but we have really meant the reserve when we created the ESM. It's kind of a reserve, it's a money allocation. The money we have, the layout is made, the money is not lost and its return is not quite non-existent, although it is not attractive. So, what can I tell you? The primary source of our loan is the loan from the European Investment Bank, which we are launching to ensure our liquidity. We have done this before and we will continue, it is largely unused. It's either three to five or five to three, I can't remember. It's a very cheap loan that helps to keep our liquidity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U168	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The question concerns the addition of new members after the ESM has been established. Do you have information or do you have any prior knowledge of how many people might want to join from outside the euro zone? How attractive is the ESM for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U170	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna help you understand why the ESM is such an important subject. You were trying to talk to Kaia Iva about it when you answered her question. According to the latest Eurobarometer survey, over 70% of people in Estonia believe in the euro area and over 52% consider the European Union important. I think that behind this is that the ESM debate, which, in a sense, also affects the public administration, is a debate about the future of Europe in general. I agree with you that perhaps the focus on the ESM has been over-emphasised, but it is certainly not over-emphasised what will become of the European Union at large. Having read your colleague Juncker's statement that Greece could, for example, leave the euro zone by the end of the year, I would like to ask what the most important risks we should bear in mind for Europe at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U171	Thank you for your attention. The fact that some things are important does not have to result from his disproportion. I still call on you to take your emotions off and not to talk about any fears and risks. They're not as big as they've been drawn on the wall. I do not know exactly what you expect from me about European risks. I myself am a relatively strong nationalist, and I have always been critical of the developments in the European economy, but I also have a strong desire for cooperation and a strong sense of responsibility. So I am also a European person. These things that have been agreed should, in my opinion, be carried out, and choices should not be made according to whether we have to pay ourselves or be paid to us, but should be done honestly, with a clear conscience and in an argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U172	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U173	Thank you. I would really like to keep doing this without foaming my emotions and staying with the facts. As long as ESM is not yet available, Estonia will participate in EFSF. Would you briefly compare the size and nature of Estonia's participation in the temporary stability fund and the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U174	There's a lot of incomparability. I would also point out that when the European ESM began to be created, it had realised that EFSF was one of the hard-working organisations that had to be done quickly to have it until the permanent organisation was completed. It was assumed that this will get out of the political rhetoric so that parliaments can monitor governments and executive power through general supervision, not the way it is in the EFSF. But it's turned out the other way around. The ESM is also over-emphasised in several other countries and its governance has been made increasingly difficult due to these individual countries. What's different about our stakes? First of all, this key: if the ESM negotiations were started at 0.2558%, then in the case of EFSF, it has already risen to 0.28%, because client countries will fail there because their guarantee will not pay much. In the EFSF, countries are known to provide guarantees. That's where our involvement in this central bank key began, but it's gotten bigger than that. The longer we're there, the faster it's going to happen, and the more we're actually depending on the trustworthiness of the EFSF itself, which could change. It is currently extremely large, they have also received a loan at a negative interest rate for on-lending on the market on the basis of guarantees. It works well now, but in the meantime there was a moment when the EFSF couldn't get the money quickly. It does not have a permanent equity base that would have been paid up and which would be a sure guarantee for lenders. In the ESM, as we know, our key is now 0.186%. There is a stronger barrier to budgeting there. Surprises are even less likely than EFSF, and the legal rules are also more inherent in the ESM. As regards the EFSF, it has to be said that although in practice it is likely that it would have preferential lending rights, because the countries would simply agree on this, this is legally guaranteed for the ESM. The ESM is a senior lender like the IMF, indeed, after the IMF, but it is still a senior lender; it is not formally an EFSF. If you have to talk about risks all the time, you have to say that there are more in the EFSF than there are in the ESM. Our contribution to the ESM is also lower than that of the EFSF.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U175	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U176	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! My question is about this adjusted period of participation, which should end in 2023. At present, our relatively low incomes have been taken into account and that our GDP is below 75% of the European Union average. It has sounded like a promise that in 2023 our GDP should be, I don't know, 150% of the European Union average. But if it doesn't, and our GDP happens to be as small as it is now or even smaller? Was there any way to leave this door open right now so that no one should start to wonder about it in 2023? What do we do if these payments are beyond our reach?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U177	Thank you. These payments are affordable to us. It is such a small part of the cost of our budget or, let us say, the budget. In the form of financial transactions, it is not a part of expenditure or direct budget revenue and expenditure, let's say it is part of the law. That was not an opportunity, to be honest. The fact that we would pay less than others and take less risks would have been abnormal. But these were not promises, but forecasts that said that in 2023 this central bank key would no longer matter to us. We certainly weren't raffles when we talked about the key to solvency. But on the other side, it was possible to blow our noses off, that in the central bank, we agreed with that key. They also have some logic that may not apply to paid-up money, but when we got to the table as an observer, they had been coming from it for almost two years. After all, EFSF was built differently according to the central bank key. That there's gonna be some kind of buzzkill who has a different logic, it was still a surprise. I don't think we should be surprises and moodbreakers forever, but we should be team players, especially when our wealth has grown.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U178	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask the public for an opinion. I am aware that according to § 106 of the Constitution, ratification of foreign treaties must not be put to a referendum. However, the Supreme Court has also indicated in its judgment that the mandate of the people of 2003 regarding accession to the European Union is being exhausted. Do you think that, before the ratification of the ESM, we should ask the public more broadly about the future of the European Union and the euro area, rather than decide it ourselves in this House?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U180	Thank you. I think it's possible, but it's a little inappropriate for discussion. Unfortunately, it is this summer that finance ministers have also discussed how to pay the dividend. I don't think such a fund should pay them. His value could increase and he could invest in dividend reserves. On the other hand, of course, most countries have to borrow and pay interest and then have some balance pressure back there. This dividend, in financial terms, is, in any case, tiny in terms of terminological terms, since the beneficiaries are trying to obtain the lowest possible borrowing rate. The dividend is an indirect, not terminological thing. Stability, reliability, whatever is important. No matter how skeptical we are, there's enough skepticism in me to show you what you're doing, this demonistic side is something that creates trust. We do what you throw at us all the time. We're not saying we won't. The main job is homework, that's all that matters. There are more political barriers. People have been given promises at law and constitutional level that a growing generation will never actually be able to fulfil.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U181	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U182	When I rushed from Hiiumaa yesterday, not from Poland to Tallinn, I was struck by news that there was a round table of political parties, where almost full consensus supported the return of this treaty. Later, I saw that two political parties in the government association had also participated. How did it happen now that you have taken such a great risk and come to the Riigikogu with a bill against the main lines of the two ruling parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U183	Thank you. I have such a role as a risk taker and a lover of extremes. They'll take me out. I cannot deny that I have had heated discussions with several members of the coalition party. This debate has been most acute on whether the Riigikogu must meet as soon as possible or vice versa. One pretty gruesome statement I think came into the 'Actual Camera' was that Estonia has time enough for the order to come from the German Constitutional Court. There are many evil jokes about the Fourth Reich, the Hakristi and the occupation in Europe. Now that there is a fight against so-called analytics on Europe's streets, in print publications and everywhere, and if Germany is actually instilling rational fiscal policies on others, the Estonian Member of Parliament thinks, or even several Members think, that everything is as Berlin says it is, and we have nothing to protest about here. In Germany, it is not necessary to have this reputation that it gives Estonia orders. That's not a good sign. That is exactly what this sentence meant for a German magazine. Germany does not need this. Germany is already under pressure. If his leaders are made disgusting posters in political terms and vicious parallels with certain historical events, this is a very bad sign. I ask Estonian politicians not to accept the idea that the occupation has taken place and it is the German Constitutional Court that decides when the Riigikogu can meet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U184	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U185	Good fellow fighter! I have a purely party question. The ESM and all institutions such as the EFSF, etc., provide assistance to countries that are unable to grow due to their lack of market economy. According to Hertage's economic freedom ranking, Italy and Greece are mainly non-free countries, Spain is moderately free and others are generally below. How should it fit the liberals that we are pumping money into financial socialist and mud-socialist countries that are unable to grow? What dividend are we talking about without a market economy? A dividend has to pay for something. The Spanish and Greek economies will not grow as long as there is no market economy. But we are saying now: do not make a market economy! To me as a liberal...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U186	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U187	...supporting socialism is unacceptable. Why does this draft not include the condition that non-market economies do not receive aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U188	Thank you. I guess the rules make me answer because it doesn't provide an exception to party matters. I'm gonna ask this side of the hall to close your ears! We are actually allocating some money to socialist counter-revolution in Europe. That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U189	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U190	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I have thought along, considered arguments and arguments on this subject, and I have read all the materials I have received. I do not doubt the need for a crisis plan, but there are questions about methods. I have also followed your views closely, and I am surprised to tell you the truth that, among other things, you doubt the ability of people authorized by the people to deal with the state to understand life and things. In your speech today, you also spoke about confidentiality in financial matters. Let me get this straight. Are you questioning the credibility of the members of the Riigikogu? If so, perhaps the untrustworthy Riigikogu has reason to distrust the government in such a distrustful atmosphere?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U191	Thank you. Good minister! Does joining the ESM mean a significant change in the government's policy so far? So far, the government has declared that the debt burden will not be increased and we will not bequeathing our loans to children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U192	Good fellows! Dear Minister, The break taken by the manager is over. I believe that the work for which the recess was taken is done. Minister, I'm sorry! Let's get on with the questions. Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U193	Thanks! Before I was interrupted by the woodpecker of the Minister of Finance, I wanted to make a small development of the Igor issue and draw a parallel with the Olympic Games. The ESM is the kind of thing where, according to the rules of the market economy, players send a doping cube to socialist cheaters in the form of an ESM, some blurry reason that they're helping the doping addicts back on the track. But what is the guarantee that these countries will pursue the same sport at all, or what is the guarantee that some reforms will take place, that, for example, the ESM will not be able to become a bank for junk bonds, so that the purchased bond will not be used toilet paper after a while?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U194	Thank you. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Since you have presented some very interesting pieces of thought about the Riigikogu plenary this summer, I have examined very thoroughly the draft law that we are discussing today. I am particularly interested in § 8 (1), which talks about informing the Riigikogu about the activities of the ESM. It is written here that the Government of the Republic gives the Riigikogu a written overview once a year. My first question is immediately why a written review. This question should normally come to a very serious debate in the large hall. I was so stupid, I looked at the explanatory statement. On page 35 of this, I found that this review was intended for ELAK at all. Why? In my opinion, this question is a question of the plenary of the Riigikogu, and we have enough time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U196	Thank you. I have nothing against the debates in this House in principle. But maybe I didn't get that fact right on your question. Did you mean bringing the ESM Annual Report to the big hall? Of precedents or comparables, I can only name the central bank's annual accounts. The central bank is a constitutional institution in Estonia. It makes sense. Can we say that these discussions on the annual report are full of political charges and great financial-economic professionalism? Perhaps we can, but I rather have the impression that the interest of the Riigikogu is small, although it is a constitutional institution. When we bring the ESM to the big hall, it's worth the precedent. I don't mind bringing you to the hall, but the result is more of a precedent. Then why are we not discussing the reports of reconstruction banks and development banks here, why are we not discussing IMF reports? This is, by the way, a much more exciting thing, because in office silence, large sums are sent behind the horizon by simple majority, but there is no news in the media about it. Think about it. If we bring this great hall, will there still be an interest in it? Maybe it could at least be worded differently. The debate on the annual report may become a bit technical and may also be a precedent. But I have no opposition to it. It is certainly possible for ELAK to make this decision as well, at least for the time being I am interpreting this draft. After all, discussions can be initiated in different forms, but are these topics so exciting that the hall is full and everyone breathes a great interest in the matter? I'm not quite sure. Perhaps the current supervision that the Riigikogu is doing is a little more meaningful and even more colorful. We can talk about quite different things that aren't in the annual report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U197	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U198	Thank you. Since my previous question turned out to be a little too complicated, I will try to formulate the same question in a simpler way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U199	It's easy for a simple person.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U200	The draft, which the good minister is currently defending, tries to regulate the decision-making of the Riigikogu, the decision-making of the Riigikogu Board and the decision-making of a committee, namely the European Union Affairs Committee. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia says that all of this, both the Riigikogu's judgment and the rights of committees, are laid down in the Rules of Procedure Act. Why has the government gone down the path of making these changes to this bill, not to the Rules of Procedure Act, as provided for by the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U201	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U202	Thank you. It was also a cluster issue. The ESM itself refrains from winding-up bonds; the countries are still conditionally supported. One condition is that the state's solvency is restored and is moving in this direction. I do not consider this doping design to be very up-to-date anymore, rather disqualifications and warnings take place here and the rules of the game are harmonised. The sport is quite similar, it is still one with strong Estonian national elements.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U203	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U204	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Estonia's fiscal policy has been conservative and every additional commitment has been carefully considered. Estonia has also respected all agreements ensuring financial stability in the euro area. However, the paradox is that if Estonia and other responsible countries do not rush to help, they will suffer the most harm themselves. How will the launch of the ESM ensure that countries that have not yet ensured financial stability do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U205	Thank you. They have no choice but to do so, because the European agreements concern all countries, and especially those in need. They just don't get the money and they can't support their country without the oxygen the ESM provides. Guarantees in a long-term perspective are, of course, reckless, but the framework that is built up is the best in the world. No one else has dealt with their fiscal problems to the extent that Europe has. I can't put the smaller individual countries on the table here. Of course, there are small and very conservative countries in Europe too, but they are not members of the euro area. So nothing is guaranteed. But the effort must be guaranteed, as well as monitoring and sanctions. They're guaranteed by the current rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U206	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U207	Thank you. Good minister! I will come back to my first question when I asked you a little bit to explain the potential risks and risks that exist in the euro area and can affect the nature of the ESM in the short and long term. I mentioned that the leader of the Eurogroup, Juncker, has said that the possible departure of Greece from the euro zone at the end of this year may be entirely feasible. If, for example, Greece or another euro area country were to leave the euro area, how would it affect its participation in the ESM, and if it also leaves the ESM, how will share capital be reallocated?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U208	Thank you. I don't see a problem here because the ESM's load is dropping exponentially. I mean, it's not like Greece gets paid to ask for it, because it owes everybody. This is definitely a matter of decision-making in itself. But these procedures are not what we are dealing with now if we want to show cooperation and solidarity. I haven't seen the full version of Juncker's statement. I don't know exactly what he's said, but there's always been a few important things in those statements. First, giving the signal to the state itself. Greece urgently needs it to realise that this is far from a joke and that blaming others is not working. Secondly, the fact that the shocks of Greece's departure are currently immeasurably smaller than they would have been two years ago. If anyone left, it would mean a lot of uncertainty. We don't know exactly how big this shock is. These aspects have now been largely taken into account; private sector debts have also been written off. The markets have taken into account the possibility of Greece leaving with a certain degree of probability. This is also reflected in asset prices and bank policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U209	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U210	Thank you. Dear Minister, Here's the question. It is clear that the ESM is a European Cooperative Bank, it will act as a financial institution, mobilising financial resources and helping Member States in their disasters. However, this law confers unlimited rights on the ESM. Article 3 states that the ESM has the right to mobilise funds by issuing financial instruments or by concluding financial or other arrangements or transactions with members of the ESM, financial institutions or third parties. ESM control is also relatively shallow. Do we not risk not only paying for the mistakes of the Member States in the future, but also paying for the failures of the ESM itself and the risks taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U211	Thank you. The risks of the ESM itself are immeasurably lower than those of the banks, for example. I will certainly reject this claim that the ESM is a cooperative bank. No, it's not. It is not a bank and does not work on the cooperative principle. It's a poetic figure that's actually misleading. Voting there, for example, relates to paid-up contributions, which are not unnatural, but natural. This is not a bank. Since the financial world also contains risks, it is true, but it is dealt with by financial management and risk management. We've been talking about this for a couple of hours, within our capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U212	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U213	I don't know that. The government usually does not declare, but the government makes decisions. It is indeed a general policy that we refrain from borrowing. At present, this is a financial allocation that is meant to improve our well-being and not to make it worse. A few words about the loan burden in general. Neeme the Great read the budget strategy here. In the case of EFSF, the increase in the loan burden is imputable, which does not mean real borrowing needs, cash flow problems, it is still an off-balance sheet item or liability that does not mean cash leaving the cashier.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U214	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U215	Thank you. These estimates were all more colorful than reality. In the financial world, there is such a real phenomenon as internal information. It's nice to make money, but it should be done honestly, not at the expense of others, not at the expense of your information. However, not all interventions designed to calm the markets are what the markets should know in advance. They're, on the contrary, made up for nervousness. But I've never heard of Draghi imposing the status of the bank. Monti's statements have been more colorful, but when it comes to the revolution in Europe, in terms of reforms, his thinking is generally very reasonable. As far as he can handle the growth barriers in Italy. He's good at explaining these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U216	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U217	Thank you. Dear Minister, Who's gonna control the ESM? I'm just thinking about the essence. Is this being done at all, or is the ESM an interinstitutional organisation by its very nature?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U218	This chain is infinitely long. There are some auditors, but look at the governance structure: the board of directors and the board of directors, the directors are finance ministers in their ideas, the finance ministers are subject to government'supervision', but the real supervisory powers are those of parliaments and specialised committees. Of course, there is also public oversight. This is how these organisations are built. There is no supervisory problem with this institution, or rather, it has been solved. We also have cooperation with the international institutions that are involved in these expert analyses and discussions and who I have also mentioned: the Commission, the central bank, the IMF.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U219	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We know that it is very likely that Italy and Spain will no longer be able to lend themselves to Greece in September. The EFSF may therefore go ahead and may also apply the guarantees we gave in the EFSF. The fact that Greece will be able to carry out its tasks in the future is quite questionable because it has not been able to do so in a year. By the end of the ESM correction period, our commitments will be EUR 1.79 billion. The European Union will provide €3.35 billion in assistance in the next planning period. Do you not think that guarantees, costs, risks and commitments will ultimately exceed the aid we receive?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U221	Thank you. You're still following that logic so you can only get your money and then we'll get out of here. We have become very much of Europe in financial terms, but not just in financial terms. If we should even be net contributors, we will pay for some common goods. What you know about Italy and Spain, I don't know. Let it be said that I do not know that they are unable to lend to Greece. This is new to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U222	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U223	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! The amounts paid by the ESM shall be included in the national budget. According to this law, the Riigikogu decides to carry out financing operations in excess of the amounts determined in the state budget. Should the Government of the Republic not submit to the Riigikogu an additional budget for this year before the second reading of the bill currently under discussion, so that it is clear to everyone where or what is planned to find the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U224	Thank you. I didn't exactly catch the number you said. But I think I will answer correctly when I say that, where possible, things will be done in advance, but not everything can be done in advance, and then the budget will have to be changed. The commitments taken by the Estonian state do not begin with the state budget. Rather, the state budget reflects the commitments made and still needs to be met. This must also be borne in mind in the ESM decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U225	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U226	Thanks! The question is a little bit inspired by the question of Ene Ergma. You really mentioned that there are situations with regard to the ESM where it is not appropriate to include a large Chamber of the Riigikogu in the decision-making process. But I come back to the fact that the Riigikogu has chosen the people. It's like you want to say that nobody's got a problem with this, you decide, but everybody else gets lost. I quote yourself: you said that it would not be appropriate to involve the Riigikogu when it comes to third-class issues. Explain to the taxpayer what the hell is the third-order issue with this ESM. I ask you as you have asked yourself many times: Where did you read it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U227	I'm talking about the head, not the paper. However, several people have asked a question here, reading earlier texts that do not relate to what has been said in the Chamber. I suggest you put the verbogram next to the place where I'm talking and the place where you're quoting me. The question is starting to get forgotten in the course of this debate. I'm sure there's no point in my story that you and ESM don't have a thing. But everything begins with the Constitution, the separation of powers, from § 106, which says that the issues of the budget and international agreements cannot be put to a referendum. The Constitution says that certain things must not be asked by the people. For me, the Constitution is sacred. I always try to tell taxpayers if I can't do anything. What other claims did you have? Oh, yeah, the third degree. I may be wrong, formally speaking, but this example may be characteristic of this picture. If there is another overview of the Portuguese progress report, in which some point has been fulfilled, do we have to come to the big hall to discuss, can this point now be crossed out? Or if it has been agreed that Portugal did not succeed in this change, but they will replace this budgetary adjustment with another one, do we have to discuss it? Are we really going to have such debates in the big hall, saying that this is the country of Estonia that we are leading here, that is the big Estonian thing that has been chosen to drive us to Parliament? I think that this is not in line with Parliament's dignity. I cannot imagine what these speeches would be like, how nice they would look, how meaningful they would be and how full the hall would be. There is a certain level of majesty that the national legislator should maintain if you wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U228	Thank you. With very long introductions, it is tempting to prove that even with friendly questions, all quotations are simplifications. I may not tell the whole world about every answer, but my identity here is overrated. In the case of Estonia, more conditions are needed: firstly, policy change, secondly, the crisis and probably also the disregard for European rules. My person here is not even third-rate, but much behind. Under what conditions would Estonia receive assistance? There must be a similar dependence on loans. Now we have a long time to become addicted, because we are not borrowing from the market, we do not have to refinance loans. We do not have an acute situation that we cannot resolve with politically tolerated decisions. It is not the case that we should say, 'Well, now for everyone a third of their salary, let alone subsidies, forget about them at all. " We do not have such situations, but they may arise. We have to consider that it was only recently that we were in a situation where we would have been beneficiaries in the event of a government indecisiveness. We should have turned to the IMF because commercial banks would only have given us loans on very predatory terms, certainly not according to their own logic, but according to our senses. We took one loan from Swedbank; we also had a loan from the European Investment Bank to help us return certain projects. We had reserves, but, let's be honest, the more financial transactions we have, the more deficit budgets we have, the more reserves are tied to something. That is why our choices have narrowed. It's not like everything's the same. Until we become loan addicts, of course, we have a long way to go, and we need our own conditions. But Europe must grant loans to all those in need, to all members. But I am saying that there is no point in going to Germany to ask that question. I don't know what kind of government would be in Germany to ask for a loan. In theory, he could ask for a loan, for example, because of some banking problems. But why would he do that if the market sometimes received a loan at a negative interest rate? These are all hypothetical situations where what you said in the beginning applies. Big people don't dream of borrowing, but small people can count on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U229	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As a simple person, I have a simple question for a simple person. If, in three years, we have to pay EUR 148,5 million in the form of an equity contribution, what is not done under the RES and the coalition agreement, because that is quite a considerable amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U231	Thank you. It would be nice if I could make those choices. I'd be happy not to do some shit, I'd be happy to turn back some laws. I'm not happy at all about everything that's been done. But we have enough room to maneuver so that other opinions can also be considered. If necessary, we shall not do so. My main point, however, is that it is not the kind of money that makes us fail to do anything. Some things, of course, could simply not be done, because there have always been too much of these things that were coerced in elections and coalition negotiations. But it's not that the ESM pressure is something tangible. If we started spending this way, it would still mean a huge budget deficit. We're not gonna let that happen to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U232	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U233	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, As an ESM principle, it is not in itself a ghost; it is created on the same basis as the IMF, which no one in Estonia has challenged. It wasn't until spring that we increased our contribution to the IMF. However, there are concerns about how the ESM is likely to be used for disbursements. I think that Estonians have a reasonable suspicion that this may be done a little too lightly. The loans that Greece is currently wearing on it, it will probably never be able to pay off. Or do you have a different opinion? What gives us the guarantee that money from the ESM will be paid out with just as much responsibility as we are trying to keep our budget balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U234	It is, of course, a matter of trust; it depends on how much you trust European rules and the people who are set to follow them, including their executive powers. What else can I say? But you started with the IMF. In the case of the IMF, such questions have never been put, although there would be much more reason for distrust among IMF clients. After all, there are many poorer countries that are further away from us and on whom we depend much less, yet we have shoveled IMF money in our responsibilities. These amounts represent a percentage of GDP; they are not marginal amounts. ESM is not a marginal amount either, but a relatively regular one. There's no fantasy that would require such a great public interest, there's no such thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U235	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U236	Thank you. By the time the Greek aid package was created, then the EFSF and the ESM, it was considered whether or not to create them. Perhaps the arguments in favour of creation have been reduced, but the immediate arguments in terms of risks have also been reduced, as tensions in the markets have become a little clearer and more estimable. But this theoretical thinking that the ESM should be one element in the single currency project has come up again. I'd keep those two things apart. One thing is decisions. Are we helping a particular country or letting it adapt? We adapted much more painfully in the 1990s than Greece is now adapting. The other side: do we need the mechanism itself? There is still a consensus on the need to create a mechanism. Who knows, after all, the internship can show that it didn't work. I can't confirm that. I'm not such an ardent ESM person, don't give it to me. But I have accepted the theoretical reasoning that the single currency requires a more coherent fiscal policy, that correction of errors requires oxygen and time, and that it cannot be offered now without the ESM. European cooperation requires solidarity with those whose future is very black, not only on the basis of how much someone receives a salary or pension, but also on the basis of how black the prospects are. It is also a measure of well-being.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U237	Thank you. I've explained it at least five times today, and I've done it about three times in this room. You should have heard it by now. The ESM must be placed in a logical and proportionate place in the Estonian parliamentary, financial economy, international cooperation, whatever. Building new Rules of Procedure for the ESM would be impractical and, in my opinion, embarrassing, disregarding the dignity of the Riigikogu. There is now a debate about how to increase the competence of the Riigikogu so that more and more can be said that it is the Riigikogu that makes decisions. It would make sense for him to do so within his natural limits. In the case of abnormal boundaries, this is already a separation of powers. This also applies to Riigikogu procedures. In my opinion, the procedures of the Riigikogu cannot be subordinated to an international organisation. I explained in this Chamber that the strength of the interference of the constitution created by the ESM depends on how well we manage these risks by sticking the procedures of the Riigikogu on this side. But I really am saying that it should not be said that the world will not be the same when we join the ESM. No, the world is quite the same and the procedures of the Riigikogu are sufficiently well established. ESM is simply regulated in a slightly different way than is reasonable in most cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U238	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have now read this bill several times. We have been discussing this issue for over three hours. It has been said repeatedly that this issue has been overstated, that there has been talk of European solidarity. But repeating is the mother of wisdom. I have a very simple question. If I and half of the members of the Riigikogu still press the red button, which doom or black boogeyman will reach Estonia, and how exactly do we have to perform this role of black sheep? Can you answer briefly what would be the main reason why you shouldn't press the red button?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U240	Basically, it's moral and self-respect. Europe will be able to make our vote, but the first thing is the dignity of whether or not Europe is ashamed of itself. That is a very practical question. After all, at the same time, we are arguing about the European Union's budget and non-repayable assistance. Would we have any political capital to speak there? If we're the only one in 17 countries who quits, I think we should keep quiet from now on. But as for the boogeyman, the status of the boogeyman is more of an ESM. There's a lot of talk about how he's some foreign monster who eats us, who can't be let in, because he's gonna do all sorts of things and practically drain us. It's not like that. It is our instrument to improve our own well-being, to ensure our own economic security and dignity. Family parallels always mean going a little slippery, but I tend to have another one on my tongue. When a child is raised, he does not forget his responsibility to his parents. Certainly, the Estonian state is not a child, but it is of the same status that it has evolved much faster thanks to European support than it would have developed without it. If it is now necessary to support this somewhat infirm supporter, I think it is a matter of morality and self-respect, not just of disaster or failure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U241	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, What, for example, is the responsibility of the Spanish Government for the correct use of the money provided through it for the rescue of Spanish commercial banks? Can you talk about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U243	Thank you. It clearly comes out of the framework of this bill, but it also comes into contact with it. The things that are going to happen to Spain are in most cases undecided. There are difficulties in formalising the responsibility of the state. One reason is that banking is cross-border. These options will be discussed in the autumn. Now there's no plan for Spain. Institutional plans will only become clear in the last quarter. The question is very substantive. As such a banking instrument was invented, it shifted away from the original logic of supporting countries. The loose ends must be assembled and the answer given.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U244	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Just a little while ago, in answer to Rainer Vakra's question, you opened up a whole new facet of this ESM theme. It's a dignity problem. If we don't participate, we won't be dignified. But I ask you this: how does it fit with our dignity that our GDP is many times lower than the European average, that we have 60000 children living below the poverty line, that our pensioners are struggling, that dental care is not paid off and that there is no money for the health care system? We're so poor, but we're still tightening our belts to pay some 150 million euros in it. Is it dignified?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U246	Thank you. When this list of yours ran out, I'm going to specify that we wouldn't have been able to make ourselves happier with the money that the ESM was putting in. It would still have been one of the financial arrangements for stabilisation. Right now, this money goes to the ESM, the place where instability is the most. I'm sure the result is that all the ugly things you rowed down are less. Our security depends on how secure Europe's economic environment is. I, by the way, am proud to be an Estonian, despite the fact that, for quite simple reasons, our standard of living is not what it is in Europe, but our prospects are better than in Europe. That's great! We do not live in an inescapable situation here in Estonia, although poverty is a reality. Prosperity growth has been faster than in the rest of Europe. One source of this, apart from our own efforts and dignity, has also been European financial assistance and various forms of support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U247	Good fellows! Dear Minister, As manager, I'm taking a two-minute break to get quiet in the hall. We'll resume the hearing at 2:14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U248	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Listening to you and watching you, it's hard to get the impression that 101 fools can ask more than one smart person to answer. I'm so sorry for you. But hold on, it will soon be over, because the Member cannot ask more than two questions. I have listened to you very carefully in this three-hour period. Consequently, I asked the first question and I also asked the second one. You have vigorously defended the ESM, and you have said, among other things, that we should support it already because we have received from the European Union and receive so much help that we cannot return. Have any calculations been made at the Ministry of Finance as to how much of this money goes back to the European Union in the form of buying goods and services (i.e. purchase of building materials, equipment, etc.) and thus boosts the economies there? In an area such as agriculture, subsidies are much lower, because less money goes back from there. Have these calculations been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U249	Thank you. I've lost the idea of a question. What building materials? I haven't worked in the field of construction materials. Cut those introductory disparaging lines off, then I can concentrate. It was certainly not correct in what you said that I am ardent and I have only contributed to European assistance in defending the ESM. I have contributed to financial stability as a public good on which our well-being depends, I have contributed to European cooperation. That has been the main thing. Its financial side always has a little bit of a bad smell at it, I haven't highlighted it. But what you asked me, I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U250	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I heard a statement earlier that we support the ESM because there are no better ideas on the table. How seriously has self-regulation been discussed to allow some countries to go bankrupt, to leave the eurozone? Before you replied that we do not know exactly the effects of bankruptcy, but similarly we do not really know what the ESM will deliver if it is implemented. The question is this: if the ESM were to receive a gold medal on the pedestal, what ideas would the silver and bronze medal have and how much would they lose to the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U252	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U253	Thank you. I'll cancel the introductory part.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U254	The destructive part.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U255	Paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of the draft law refer to the procedure and to the fact that the Riigikogu commission makes certain decisions in accordance with the section of the Rules of Procedure Act. At the same time, § 71 of the Constitution says: 'The procedure and rights for the formation of committees and political groups are laid down in the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. ' Why did the Government of the Republic not submit a draft law amending the Rules of Procedure Act to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U256	Thank you. Because we considered it disproportionate to change the logic of the functioning of the Riigikogu because of the ESM. Maybe you have some extra thoughts that we can discuss. I cannot say at the moment whether we can accept the answer that was hidden in the question, but we are based on the outcome of the case. We have worked with the Chancellor of Justice to develop this draft. Among other things, the Supreme Court has said (you may have started with the question of the role of ELAK) that this is not in itself contrary to the Constitution when ELAK has been given special jurisdiction. He has already been given special powers in the Rules of Procedure Act. It is just a matter of ensuring that this House also has this opportunity. We have tried to create this opportunity, sometimes giving some comments. Not every opportunity has to start using it at first speed if there are problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U257	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U258	Good Jurgen! I was scared when you said you were secretly consulting on Saturdays and Sundays, and then on Monday, you put away the market to see the math. By the way, you'll succeed. Monday and Tuesday, after your secret conversations at night, the markets are always on the ground. You also said it was bad that someone made money somewhere, that making money was bad. I'm in favour of people doing legal work, so let them serve. Money is a good thing, and we don't mind. I just wanted to say another thing. What guarantees do Mario Monti, Mario Draghi and others have that the idea of granting ESM a bank licence will not materialise? This, by the way, is opposed by Jens Weidmann. I am also of the opinion that we must agree with the Germans. Jens Weidmann is against this because he doesn't want to turn the ESM into a junk bank, but Monti and Draghi are pressing on. Where's the guarantee that this bank won't come in the form of an ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U259	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a question about the nature of the ESM. I understand that there are very many countries that are in financial difficulties, and indeed, for the sake of the stability of the euro area, we have to deal with this. However, there have been a great many recently adopted Stability Pacts, which should exclude such scenarios in the future if they are complied with by countries. I am amazed that there is no indication in the ESM Treaty that the State will receive aid only if it fulfils all the conditions of the Stability Pact. Can it not be said that the ESM is also intended to help countries that do not care and do not bother to comply with the terms of the Stability Pact in the future? Otherwise, these countries should not need help.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U260	Thank you. The ESM aid is conditional upon accession to the Fiscal Agreement. If I understood the question correctly, there's nothing else to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U261	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U262	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You have today, in responding to a number of colleagues, believed that the large hall should not take on any commitments to the ESM process, that ELAK will be able to manage and that the life of the country cannot be reorganized on the basis of the ESM. I'm not quoting you literally, but you said today in this very hall that the ESM is like oxygen for the sick. I think you answered Mr Gräzin's question in this way when you asked the opposition to close its ears that it was a counter-social revolution in finance. So what is it really?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U263	Thank you. I was just thinking that you see how reasonable the talk, the introduction, is appropriate, there is no disparage, and the quotations and thoughts have been correctly communicated. But now I can't tell you how you opposed these two things. I didn't understand anything. Try again. I guess I'm tired. I'm sure you had a fresher head when you prepared the question. I didn't understand you right now. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U264	Should we take a break or should we go on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U265	We don't need a break. Let's go. A simple person has to be asked simple questions, that's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U266	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U267	Thank you. Dear Minister, It has been said more and more that the private sector should contribute to this chaos, which should be done by the banks themselves and precisely at the expense of their profits. What do you think? Please comment on the role of banks in the continuation of financial stability. Do you think a tax on financial transactions could also be introduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U268	Thank you. My answer could be very long now, but I don't want to answer for so long. A financial transaction tax is a separate dispute. Its ideological origins are that banks should bear responsibility for financial problems according to what they have screwed up. But what exactly is that responsibility? There's a lot of details in here. Is this some kind of pre-tax or ex post penalty and how banks survive it? The actual liability of the banks comes not from their profits, but from the write-offs of capital. The bankers will first lose their assets and make every effort to protect their customers. The general ambition is that the role of taxpayers is as low as possible here. In Europe, unfortunately, this has often been a bit dramatic. It is important that all kinds of prevention and payment are made on a rolling basis so that banks contribute all the time, not only when everything has gone wrong. Of course there are more questions. One of the pearls of the Eurosceptics was that what it is now is discussed here by some senior bondholder. There's such a thing as a senior bondholder. Again, the issue is very sensitive. We would not want to drain the banking from creditors, deter them from doing so with some kind of sanctions or sanctions. It is a difficult choice and it is a highly sensitive issue in several countries. Do we want those who have granted loans to banks (I am not thinking here about depositors, not even owners), to be driven away from European banking, or do we want to minimise the burden on the taxpayer by protecting their money too, so that it stays inside the system, so that taxpayers' costs are lower? It's a very complicated decision. This is also one of the issues that will be discussed in silence in the office rather than want the borrowers not to disperse because of wrong signals and misconceptions, nor to think that banks are no longer the ones to whom loans may be granted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U269	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U270	Thank you. Good minister! Unlike Estonia, in a larger section of the euro area, pensions are higher than a thousand euros, also in those countries that apply for help. Do you think it would be possible to create a stability mechanism similar to the ESM in the European Union to help harmonise pensions in the euro area countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U271	No, not in that sense. But in the sense that stability helps the small and vulnerable most. Our setbacks can be minimized if we deal with problems in their formations. This is certainly also reflected in pensions. But no one at all thinks of a common pension fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U272	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U273	Thank you. Dear Minister, The countries of the euro area are very different in size. It is clear that if we contribute some share of GDP to the ESM, in absolute terms, our share of GDP is relatively negligible compared to that of some large countries. You said that Estonia will not have to ask for help from the ESM until you do your job well. Article 3 of the ESM Agreement states that the objective of the ESM is to provide stability support to countries in serious difficulties, subject to strict conditions, where this is indispensable for the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. You said that, in the case of very large countries, the ESM funds would probably not be enough if these countries were to face such difficulties. It is clear that countries comparable to Estonia in size, or slightly larger than us, may face serious difficulties that are as difficult for these countries as, say, the crises of medium-sized countries. At the same time, they may not simply pose a threat to the financial stability of the euro area as a whole in terms of their'magnitise'. So what exactly is this eligibility criterion? Under what conditions can smaller countries expect this assistance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U274	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U275	Please, Mr Lukas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U276	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, The big picture is still made up of smaller ones, and for all we know, the one who doesn't remember the past lives without the future. Correct me if I'm wrong about anything. You'll probably be a member of the board of governors of the ESM in the future. Are you going to be as successful as you were as you were as a member of the board of governors of the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U277	What were your questions? First, you asked if the big picture was made up of small ones. What else was there? I couldn't write it down. What do you have in mind about this compensation fund, do you want to blame me for anything? I was a green politician, not as green as you, but I managed to become chairman of the board of the compensation fund in 1998. That's exactly what I'm saying. What was I doing there? Nothing about the ESM. After that, however, I had to be a witness in a criminal case. I don't remember those punishments. I know someone went to jail. It's on my mind that I didn't cover it up. It came out, had to act, and a criminal case followed. The compensation fund is a monstrum on its own that could be discussed. There was a lot of idealism in this matter. But as far as I'm concerned, I can only be proud, given my experience at the time. I was a fool, just as one member of the Riigikogu is still in the third year. Sorry, it was a joke! Not everyone's stupid, but I was. I was definitely so naive in the 1990s. The whole idea of a compensation fund, which had been decided before, was largely naive, but it still worked. I'm sorry about the young men who made their mistakes and ruined their reputation there. Some were in jail too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U278	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. You have questions too. Let's start with my colleague Paul-Eerik from Rummo, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U279	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U280	Thank you. Mr. Minister! It's no joke being on the remote for four hours. That's why I'm gonna ask you again and a little slower. My question is not specifically about Estonia. My question is Article 3 of the ESM Agreement...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U281	Slow down, please, just like the others say!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U282	My question is about Article 3 of the ESM Agreement, which says that aid will be given to countries in difficulty if it is essential for the stability of the euro area as a whole. You said there's no point in the big ones asking for money, but the little ones can count on help. At the same time, it is clear that even a medium-sized crisis hitting a country the size of France, for example, has a much greater impact on the stability of the whole euro area than a serious crisis hitting a country the size of Slovakia, for example. My question is: how big must one country be, so that in the crisis that has hit it, helping it is essential for the stability of the euro area as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U283	The answer is the same: no matter how big. If you read the text of such an agreement, please note that it contains different signals, different agreements and backgrounds. One way of interpreting this harsh wording is like that of the Eurosceptics: we are not getting anything out of it, we are not getting anything out of it. But the second interpretation, what it has meant, is that you can't just get money. There must be a serious problem and a common sense of instability. It is intended to deter those who ask, but also to calm the parliaments. It is not the case that other countries will simply be supported, but must be perceived as a common problem and a very serious concern for a particular country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U284	Please, Mr Sooäär, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U285	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, European money ministers must also have a plan B in their back pocket.Considering the developments of the German Constitutional Court and the fact that some Heads of State have not yet launched this agreement, I ask: what is plan B, what will happen if the ESM does not enter into force? What happens if Estonia does not join it, what could these developments be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U286	Thank you. It's not a plan that happens. To be honest, Estonia is a very small point even on the map of Europe. Europe is going to live on, it is going to keep going, and it is going to polarise more clearly. Estonia will then simply remain on the other side. His political capital must be badly shaken and seen as one of the peculiar characters at the table. I don't think we should want that position. Europe will survive, but our dignity will surely suffer. I spoke of political capital in the sense that we have very different specific interests and opinions in Europe, where we constantly need allies. All of this is dealt with by different ministers. It's easier to talk to those who respect you, but not to those who look at you as a rag, who gets the dough and gets the fuck out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U287	Please, colleague Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U288	Thank you. Mr Sooäär asked more or less the same question as I wanted to ask. We are actually talking about the possible consequences that will arise if Estonia decides not to join the ESM. I understand everything you said when you answered the previous question, but what could be the real consequences, political or any other than the inconvenience that the Minister of Finance will feel at certain meetings? What could they be? You said that Estonia has different interests, but what can actually happen if Estonia does not join the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U289	Thank you. Currently, Estonia participates in the interim stability fund and we are familiar with the ESM Treaty. While things show that the ESM, when it is established and functioning under this agreement, is much more solid, reliable and interestingly flexible than the temporary fast-acting fund that has been created. Am I right to understand that the faster the ESM is created and implemented, the better for the States Parties, including Estonia? The ESM seems to be more stable, the contributions of the States Parties appear to be lower and the risks better mitigated. Do I have the right understanding that the faster the ESM is created, the better for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U290	Thank you, my good colleague. You've quite rightly understood, at least your understanding is entirely consistent with my understanding. There are quite a few reasons. These two, EFSF and ESM, are actually two separate structures. The EFSF is a private structure; the second is already a legal structure in individual European countries. What is very important, but perhaps not so much has been said about, is that in the case of EFSF, Estonia's participation is greater than in the case of ESM. While we are also speaking from a completely pragmatic point of view, in the case of ESM, our capital key is simply smaller. At the moment the ESM starts working, we will, let's say, with a smaller share in this big game. There's also a pragmatic side. But also in terms of legal clarity and future action, all experts have said that it is clearly better to operate with the ESM. When the EFSF was adopted last year, it was clearly stated that it was a temporary mechanism. So I think we should definitely move forward as soon as possible. The current pace shows that we are the last to accept.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U291	Please, Mr Herkel, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U292	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I see here a procedural problem which is due to the fact that we are dealing with ratification and implementation together. Suppose something like this happens, that we enter into the Implementation Act a provision that we find after a few months, as is often the case, that it is practical to change it. What happens then? Are we reopening the law on ratification? Ratification is final, but there may be inconsistencies in implementation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U293	Thank you, my good colleague. This is a good question, and we also raised this issue by addressing the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Really, are there going to be any contradictions or contradictions in such cases? At some point, when we have received a legally competent answer, I, too, can give an overview, either at second reading or already at committee voting on possible amendments, and you can shape your position accordingly. I owe an answer today in the context of whether there will be a real contradiction when the ratified law is reopened in order to make amendments, but I think that in the near future we will have an answer to this question. Of course, here is the question: if there are contradictions, how can we proceed? But at least at the moment, it seems to me that if it is possible to proceed with one bill, as it is on our tables today, it makes sense to move forward. Otherwise, possible legal vacuums may arise when ratifying the law and, at the same time, delaying or not adopting internal procedural rules. I'm not sure it's useful. But once again, in answer to your question: should there be a situation where, in the light of our internal procedures or the logic of proposing amendments, we need to start thinking about breaking up the drafts, we need to come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U294	Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U295	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The draft gives the European Union Affairs Committee quite a lot of rights to act on behalf of the Riigikogu or to give an opinion. In terms of operationality, this may be right, but if you take it the other way around, the Committee on European Union Affairs is actually only one working body of the Riigikogu, in my opinion not more important than, for example, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Did the committee also discuss how or whether the draft could be supplemented in such a way as to increase the possibility for the Riigikogu as a whole to participate in the ESM issue and also the obligation of the government to report to the Riigikogu on these matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U296	Thank you, good questioner! I would say that actually 80% or even more of 100% went to the analysis and debate of competences. The financial side of the bill may have stayed in that 20%. Yes, we did, and consequently we asked both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs for an opinion on how they would provide for this procedure. Many people are left with the understanding that the Commission on European Affairs has developed a great and colossal power. In fact, the opportunities of this House are now much greater than those of the EFSF. In the case of the EFSF, there was a question about Spain that, even if the programme of the Spanish bank had been wanted to discuss it in the Chamber, this option would not have been possible. Those things are gonna disappear. In fact, all the important issues now lie within the remit of the House. The Minister here gave a practically complete overview of what the House's tasks would be when answering the last three questions. Yes, we can ask who will decide when there is an urgent debate on the matter. This is now an evaluation point, as the European Union Affairs Commission really will have the opportunity to adopt important national responsibilities and decisions when it comes to urgent issues or secret issues. If, in the case of the secret, you can understand that somewhere else, the question of where this someone is said to be secret, then in the case of urgency, the question of interpretation arises. I think that these issues can be discussed and also resolved between the first and second readings, i.e. whether there is any need to clarify the concept of 'fast' or whether it is a common logic or not. And if there's a common logic, then what's a common logic? These are the topics we can discuss between the first and second readings. But I dare assure you that, above all, compared to the EFSF, this House now has a much greater competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U297	Please, Mr Kalle Laane, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U298	Thank you, Mr President, and the Chairman of the Commission. In the case of the ESM, there has really been a great deal of talk here about the issue of supervision, and one of the supervisory bodies, as the Minister mentioned, is the Chamber of Governors, which is made up of finance ministers, if I understand correctly. The media have been saying that the Minister of Finance will be remunerated separately for this work. My question is, is this true? My next question in this context is who will determine this fee and what it will look like.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U299	Would you be so specific that what is true? Is it true that the job is rewarded? You know, good colleague, in that sense I'm just as smart as you are and reading everything on paper. You see what Jürgen Ligi's doing in the back room. I guess that means it's not true. Jürgen Ligi can certainly answer for himself, perhaps we can ask him or later see from his declarations whether there has been a separate income line. But at least the move he made from afar says no, he's not gonna make a profit from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U300	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I have a slightly speculative question. Mario Draghi, Head of the European Central Bank, has spoken about a fiscal measure, namely the printing of euro. You, who, along with other finance ministers in Brussels, have you been to these more intimate meetings, do you think that one of the hidden objectives of creating the ESM is also the controlled distribution of the new amount of money issued, for example through the ESM to the markets? Maybe the ESM isn't just oxygen, it's enriched oxygen.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U301	I strongly reject any hint of intimate meetings with finance ministers. Of course, I can't remember the question now, because it excited me more. You were referring to some kind of money mission or something like that. These are the many variants that have been or have not been provided over time. Still, eurozone critics ignore the fact that the printing of money for the government is banned in the euro zone, while the central bank has done non-traditional things. When Mario Draghi opens his mouth and hints at something like this, all the expectations are up again and people think that now the money press is going to work, but then it turns out that he's talking a perfectly normal story, as usual: the mandate is ahead, the limits are ahead. Then the markets say they're disappointed, and they fall back. It is not possible to do anything in Europe, but non-traditional instruments have been sought. This arsenal is well limited. The banking licence to the ESM has not reached our table, and I hope it will not. ESM is not my creation. My creation is homework, so that all countries can clean up their homes early and adapt strongly. The ESM is a disgrace, although it must exist as an instrument for moments of crisis. The ESM is the shame of the beneficiary countries either way. Mistakes have been made somewhere, probably for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U302	Please, Mr Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U303	I don't want to put these things in very legal language or in a tangible form. Politics is about respect for values, cooperation, etc. What am I still trying to define this standing up here? Nothing bad's gonna happen. Well, we look stupid, but it's not a special case, it's just a fact. I guess I'd still be there because I have to be at that table, but open my mouth like I don't want to. I think my successor would be in exactly the same situation. It would be an empty feeling, because these are the things that are discussed at the meetings and why I will be there, but how will I not be there when it is scheduled and the invitation has come? I don't know. But I'm not the country, and it's not my pain that you have to follow. You politicians always have very pragmatic interests and ideological desires that Europe could satisfy. It must be considered whether they are enforceable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U304	Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U305	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Listening to this debate is the feeling that we really are some negative raffles. If we wanted to join the European Union and expected us to get all the subsidies quickly, then we thought that the eurozone was very good and the euro was very good, it would increase our credibility. Now, if we could take an adequate and dignified response, our idea is that we would rather go away from home or hide our head in the sand. I am asking you straight: is such an understanding of us as rags widespread, and is it already rather embarrassing for the Minister of Finance and other representatives of Estonia to be present at these meetings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U306	No, I have still been proud of Estonia's state and finances. I can choose if I take the floor or not. Everyone knows what kind of authority someone has, not only on the basis of the size of the country, but also on the basis of their actions. But what you were talking about could happen. I will not fail to mention before the end of my performance that the role of the red lamp in the ESM debate is not something that would honor us. Otherwise, there's nothing now that's cracked. It would be nice to wrap it up today, adding that Europe is still a system of values, not just costs and benefits, financial obligations and rewards. But as soon as the money comes into play, these values will be tested hard. I do not recommend that the Riigikogu test these values or question our ability to follow them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U307	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U308	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I want to hear your understanding of how Estonian and Estonian parliaments should act when Estonia becomes a member of the ESM. § 5 of the draft law prepared in your house states that from now on all MOUs should come to the grand hall of the Riigikogu, but they may not come if the deadline does not allow the Riigikogu to adopt the decision. Two weeks ago, we had a "practical" in connection with the EFSF, when it was a Spanish bank programme. ELAK discussed this issue two hours before your telephone conference. It was then said that it was not now possible to discuss in the big hall, and now it is urgent, even though you had ten working days of this memorandum of understanding in your hands. What now gives us the assurance that future discussions on customer countries will arrive in the Riigikogu, rather than hindering this debate, for example, because the coalition happens to have no 51 necessary votes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U309	Thank you. This history, of course, can be clarified. I'm just saying that there have been two cases lately when only Friday was between the fact and the reaction. One time it was only Friday afternoon, and already Saturday morning there was a telephone conference. I do not see the possibility that this House has been able to meet. I don't remember any time we aged a memorandum, I don't remember a time we didn't deliver. In the case of Spain, information has always been received in fragments. Cooperation has been in such a form that we have encouraged Spain to make decisions so that we can discuss something. Should we, then, have organised a plenary session in order to listen, we decided to encourage Spain, now come together and discuss it? If Spain decided to make a request for assistance and the finance ministers had to discuss it, then this House would have had to meet in one day. I don't remember any stretch of the memorandum. This whole process has been staged. I said that a clear banking restructuring plan would only come in the last quarter. How many plenary sessions should we have done in the meantime to really treat this House with full respect? Everything shows that what Riigikogu wrote to the government in the case of EFSF has worked well. ELAK has really worked well, there has not been an unnecessary amount of political rhetoric, but there has been a lot of substantive interest and operationality. But it hasn't always been enough. You asked about the plenary of the Riigikogu. I'm trying to give you that list. What is the role of this House? First of all, the amounts paid by the ESM are recorded in the state budget, which is decided by the Riigikogu. The Assembly shall decide on the accelerated payment of the capital to be paid up and on the increase in the maximum loan volume of the ESM, should this be the case. I hope it does not come out of the bud, but it cannot be ruled out if there are strong arguments. Next, an amendment to the list of ESM financial assistance instruments. There are currently four or five of these instruments, but if a new one is made up, then this House will discuss it and I will explain it. I predict that if we stay within the scope of the subject, this is not a very inspiring debate. To explain what this new instrument is, you could do in a smaller circle. This, of course, can also be done in this House, and that is why we have written it into the law, so that there is greater certainty that this House will not be left out of anything that might interest you. It is not only the choice of ELAK to bring this issue to the full, but we bring it to the hall as a fundamental choice. There are really fundamental choices, for example, there was a fundamental change in support for banking. The increase in the share capital of the ESM, if any, will of course be decided by the Riigikogu. I'm getting bored myself. The general rule is that approval of all memoranda, including recommendations to the Government of the Republic, will take place in plenary. The plenary of the Riigikogu also approves amendments to memoranda, which are important at stake. If the representative of the Republic of Estonia did not support the provision of stability support under the urgency procedure, a consensual decision on the termination of the Emergency Aid Reserve Fund will be taken, including Parliament. The approval of the basic decisions and recommendations on the granting of stability support on the proposal of the ELAK will also take place in plenary. Once a year, ESM stability grants and Estonia's participation in the ESM will be briefed in plenary. The Government informs the Board of the Riigikogu of all the memoranda and draft decisions sent to ELAK, and ELAK informs the Board of the Riigikogu of the opinions given, so that there is no risk that the government will impose anything on it. The Riigikogu receives information and then it is his own choice whether or not he wants to deal with it more seriously. The ESM will be provided with information on the submission of applications for stability support and the termination of the Emergency Aid Reserve Fund and an overview will be made of the significant increase in the risk of recovering the callable capital taken to the Republic of Estonia. All of this is the role of this House. A role like that, I'd say! It must only be worn in such a way that the poor Riigikogu plenary does not seem too ESM-centred institution. Such a small majestic distance could always be kept by the Riigikogu on very specific individual issues, but we have now minimised this distance in the law. Progress from there would seem to me to be a little deserving of dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U310	Please, Mr Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U311	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You've been answering our questions for hours now. How do you feel? Have we been able to ask all the questions, or have we missed something that could scratch the soul?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U312	Thank you. I think 101 wise people can ask more questions than one fool can imagine. So I can't say I know the list of possible questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U313	Please, Mr Vakra, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U314	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm trying to ask a question that hasn't been asked so far. When the European Financial Stability Fund (EFSF) was created, where the Estonian guarantee was EUR 2 billion, it was explained in this Chamber that this fund is temporary, it will last until a European stability mechanism is created and these institutions are merged. Can you briefly explain how these two financial institutions set up on different principles will still merge after we have approved the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U315	Thank you. It's not like there's an answer. There can be no merger between a public limited company and an international organisation. There are also examples in Estonian law that certain organisations cannot legally join, should be eliminated or whatever, depends on how the law is written. But the EFSF retains a certain asset, a certain loan portfolio that needs to be managed. After all, in terms of austerity and single management, the goal is to have a common goal of these technical things. One fact is that the portfolio will be transferred to the ESM at some point. I believe that this is also reflected in the ESM agreement. In any case, the technical details are not yet clear, because they are very different legal phenomena.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U316	No further questions. Minister for Finance, thank you very much for your presentation and for answering questions very thoroughly for almost four hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U317	Thanks for the debate. I liked it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U318	Thank you very much. Let's continue. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Sester, from the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U319	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sending you an overview of the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs where the draft law on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, bearing number 254, was prepared for the first reading. The Committee on Monetary Affairs, as a sectoral committee, has been working on the issue of financial stability in the euro area and the preparation of related legislation in plenary throughout the working period. In particular, Estonia has supported the steps taken since 2010 to ensure the stability of the euro area. In spring 2010, Greece's problems made it necessary to coordinate the euro area's overall crisis prevention and resolution instruments and new economic policies. As Greece's problems and their impact on the euro area were acute, an urgent solution was found in the form of a Greek credit mechanism, bilateral loans were agreed with the euro area countries. Estonia did not participate in this mechanism. The European Financial Stability Fund (EFSF) was then created as a more systematic but still temporary solution, a shorter one, mainly related to the need for assistance and firewalls in some countries. The decision to join the EFSF was taken by the Riigikogu in September 2011. The next development was the establishment of a permanent European Stability Mechanism (ESM) as the successor to the EFSF, which was to replace the EFSF by 1 July 2013. The deadline was later brought forward by a decision of the Council. More specifically, the draft ratification of the European Stability Mechanism and its Treaty were discussed at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 11 June, 16 July, 20 July and 31 July. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; On 11 June, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi gave an overview of the financial situation of Estonia and the euro area, including the current state of play of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, the draft of the European Stability Mechanism, or ESMAL, and the contestation of the contract by the Chancellor of Justice in the Supreme Court. On 16 July a joint meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs was held on the "State Court of Justice decision on the constitutionality of the European Union'. Ulrika Eesmaa, representative of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court, took part in this, who gave an overview of the constitutionality of the urgent procedure of the ESMAL at the Supreme Court. At the same meeting, Andres Sutt, Senior Adviser to the Director-General of the EFSF, presented the principles of functioning and transition between the ESM and the EFSF. On 20 July, a joint meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs was also held on the subject of an overview of the financial crisis and a draft law on the ratification of the EDL. This time, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, Deputy Chancellor Tanel Ross, Head of the European Union and International Cooperation Department Martin Põder and Head of the Legal Department of the same Ministry Tiit Rebane took part in the meeting. The Commission received information and answers to questions on the background, main issues and problems of the draft ESM Treaty ratification proposal under preparation, as well as on the further processing of the draft government plan. On 31 July, with the participation of Minister Jürgen Ligi, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed a specific draft with number 254, a draft law on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, which the Executive Board of the Riigikogu had appointed as the leading committee. From the draft, the Minister for Finance gave you a thorough overview just a few moments ago and answered dozens and dozens of questions. I would like to reiterate here that the aim of the draft is to ratify the Treaty establishing a European Stability Mechanism and to lay down provisions essential for its national implementation. The agreement to be ratified establishes a European Stability Mechanism (ESM) aimed at providing financial assistance to ESM members in financial difficulties. The capital of the ESM amounts to EUR 700 billion and Estonia's participation in the ESM amounts to EUR 1,302 billion. I will add to the information that Estonia's participation in the ESM is 0.186%, which is fixed for the next 12 years. Exceptionally, less than the usual European Central Bank participation in capital results from our lower gross domestic product. The ESM's paid-up capital amounts to EUR 80 billion and will be paid by the euro area countries in equal shares over a period of five years. At this point, I would like to add that, given the latest developments and decisions at European level, payments will actually be made on an accelerated basis over the next two to three years. These payments have already been taken into account in the forecast of reserves and debt in the country's fiscal strategy for 2012 to 2015. The decision as to whether payments are made from reserves or through loans depends on the specific situation. Assuming that the contribution is made from liquid financial assets, the level of Estonian reserves will decrease by approximately 0.4% of GDP by 2015. The loans granted by the ESM are not reflected in the sovereign debt burden. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also give you an overview of the issues and issues raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Most or virtually all of these issues have been discussed here today in the plenary hall of the Riigikogu, but still. The subject was the draft procedure in the Riigikogu at three readings. The draft law concerning the foreign contract is discussed in two readings in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, unless the commission proposes a third reading. Since this draft law on ratification also includes legal provisions falling within the scope of other laws, the Commission decided to propose three readings to the Riigikogu. The subject was also the competence of the Riigikogu's plenary and ELAK, which has been discussed for quite a while in this Chamber today. National procedures for the following decisions relating to the ESM and the involvement of the Riigikogu plenary in these decisions are important. The draft Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty provides that all major decisions will be taken by the Riigikogu's plenary and that decisions of a technical nature and urgency will remain in the hands of the European Union Affairs Committee. The plenary of the Riigikogu would be responsible for decisions concerning ESM's authorised share capital, changes in the maximum loan volume, as well as the approval of new memoranda and major amendments thereto and the termination of the emergency aid reserve. At this point, I would like to stress that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has decided to ask the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for an opinion on this matter. The subject of the debate was the presentation by the Commission of a draft in two separate drafts. The Minister, as a representative of the Government, stated that the Government had considered this possibility of presenting a separate draft ratification and its implementation, but the discussions considered that it would be more reasonable and appropriate to deal with ESM as a single draft. That's how it's gonna be on our desks today. Asked if Estonia would receive financial assistance if it was in difficulty. The Minister confirmed that all parties would receive support if necessary. The questioning of Estonia would also affect the financial stability of the European Union. Cyprus is an example in the form of a small country. If the crisis threatens the euro area, aid will be provided. There was a question of how we could deal with this. The Minister stated in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the lending capacity would be covered by AA-rated countries. If some decisions require more money, then the possibility of raising capital is therefore higher and the price of money is cheaper. This is an over-guaranteed money instrument and is therefore less likely to be recovered. The task of the ESM is to mitigate risks, prevent them from being accumulated and realised. The potential losses in a very unrealistic, so-called black risk scenario will first be covered by the reserve fund and then by the part of the paid-up capital. Estonia's share is up to EUR 50,2 million for one example, which is also included in the explanatory memorandum. The probability of payment of ESM's callable capital is low. The Minister has confirmed this today, both from this point of view and from the Commission, because the ESM's risk of insolvency is reduced by the fact that the financial assistance it provides is strictly conditional and that the ESM is always a senior creditor. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there was also a question of whether, for example, the Committee on Monetary Affairs should not decide on such an agreement in the future instead of ELAK. It was clarified that ELAK is responsible for parliamentary oversight of government activities at EU level in order to ensure that legislative power is included in the European Union's decision-making process, the national coordination mechanism for EU issues. The draft provides for the right of ELAK to be involved in the plenary session, including the possibility to appoint the Committee on Monetary Affairs as the lead committee. The question was to record the exact amounts in the law so as to know what would happen after 12 years. The Minister explained that this was not practical, rather it was even misleading. It is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. This could be misleading precisely because, during this period, new members and changes in capital keys may be added as a result of changes in GDP. There was a question of the transfer of EFSF liabilities and credit capacity to the ESM. Estonia was known to join the EFSF last year. The Minister stated that, at present, it has not been detailed in detail, such general wordings are. When the ESM starts to work, there will also be final clarifications. It is worth noting that EFSF and ESM borrow on a different basis from the market; loans cannot be 'directly transferred'. It was asked whether Estonia would borrow or use its reserves if the recovery came. The Minister explained that the ESM is self-functioning and will do everything in its power to ensure that recoveries do not need to be realised in real life. If there is a payment disruption, it will not be 100% and initially the ESM will buffer it itself, but we will be able to serve on budget lines, reserve, cash loan, if necessary, budget change and certainly borrowing. There was a question of the government's financial commitment to all activities related to the ESM. Here the minister also explained in the committee that once the Riigikogu has made its decision to join the ESM, the role of the government after that is essentially a cash operation. The question of the financial participation of problem countries in the ESM. The answer was that the beneficiary countries must participate in the ESM and their loan programmes also provide for ESM obligations. They asked if it was possible to step out of the ESM. The Minister's answer was that it was not regulated, at least at present. The question was also about the procedures for Finland to join the ESM. The Minister replied that Finland would be in solidarity with others when joining the ESM, i.e. no guarantee would be required for the ESM. In the case of EFSF, as the Minister has already mentioned here today in Saalisk, Finland paid in all the money, with a guarantee of 40%, and in this case, as information is available, this money does not generate any substantial interest. The Commission was also asked about the personal immunity of the ESM leaders. The Minister mentioned that there is, in essence, an analogy with the IMF: decisions are sovereign, but this does not preclude prosecution of possible other activities. The question was about the procedures of the MOU, or 'Memorandum of Understanding', when ELAK proposes that the Assembly be involved. How should this procedure take place? The minister replied that the government would then submit a draft decision and the procedure would be carried out in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. It was also a question of the inconsistency between the rescue mechanisms and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Minister stated that there is no contradiction, the Treaty allows them to be created voluntarily today. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not regulate it and therefore there is no need to amend the law. The creation of rescue mechanisms has features of European Union law which explicitly provide for the possibility of creating a stability mechanism. The question of the provision of the funds necessary for the performance of the contract was answered by the Commission that everything is governed by budgetary law: the funds are provided for in the state budget. Separate decisions are possible, after which the state budget will have to be changed. The state has a financial plan, reserves, cash loan to serve its obligations. There is no need to amend the basic law of the state budget in the light of the Treaty on European Stability Mechanism. The 2012 state budget, which we adopted at the end of last year, has allocated EUR 30 million, and an additional EUR 30 million will need to be amended in the autumn of this year if the current draft is adopted. There was also a question of private capital, i.e. involving the private sector in aid programmes. The Minister explained that he would also seek to involve the private sector. In particular, in the case of the Greek banks, bank holders also made very clear losses. Finally. The Commission took the following decisions: firstly, to bring the draft before the plenary session for the first reading on 8 August. a (this was a consensual decision); propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped (by 7, 1 against and 3 abstentions); set a deadline for the submission of amendments. 21 August at 10 a.m. (the decision was consensual); propose to discuss the draft at three readings and ask the Constitutional Committee, ELAK and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for an opinion; the deadline for the submission of opinions was 15 August at 16 a.m. (the decision was consensual). Finally, during the period between the first and second reading of the draft, it was decided to invite Chancellor Teder and Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson to attend the meeting of the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U320	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It seems to me that, in recent times, one argument has been overexploited, perhaps used to silence the possible votes against the ESM with their ridicule. The claim that you're like rappels, you ask for a lot of grants, you get them, but you don't want to help others. At the same time, the general principle of the European Union and the logic of entering it are that those who are 'less capable' are supported. But Estonia is starting to pay in more and more all the time. That is the logic of the functioning of the European Union as an organisation. Does it seem to you, as I do, that the ESM debate could keep a little bit apart from the European Union's subsidy-sharing system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U321	Thank you. Can we keep the ESM debate separate from the European subsidy system? But I would like, a good questioner, to ask, have we, today, held some fundamental debate on European subsidies? I don't think we have really talked about how many structural grants Estonia has received during the 2007-2013 period, for example, and how much we have actually paid back. I can say that this ratio is three to one, and this money is not a guarantee that has been given, but real money that Estonia has. We haven't opened such a debate, good Tõnis, here today. I think these things have been kept separate, at least I don't think we've connected them. We do not owe anyone today, it is not that we have joined Europe at one point and, say, out of feelings of debt or guilt, we join an organisation. I don't think this is a matter of debt or guilt. It is a financial stability pact, and now it is a question of believing whether or not a potential fall in a country's bankruptcy could have a domino effect, whether or not the fall of a country could fall in another country. The same unfortunate Greece, in essence, accounts for only 2% of Europe. We are increasingly talking about Greece having to keep certain promises. If he doesn't keep those promises, he won't get any more money. More and more people get used to the idea that you won't get money until you keep your promises. In the meantime, it was quite the case that the belt was getting more and more relaxed. I think we're in this family together, and we can't get through it or around it. On the one hand, we do not have a debt and such guilt, but on the other hand, being in this family, we must, whether or not, act in accordance with certain rules. One such thing is real participation in rescue actions in such bad situations, which means taking on our responsibilities. We have to go along with it if we don't want to. We can't say we're only together at the wedding. It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U322	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. No further questions. Thanks for the presentation. Let's move on to the negotiations. I call on the speaker's desk as a representative of the Group of the Rõivas Reform Party. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U323	Mr President, fellow officials, above all, the good people of Estonia! Riigikogu committees have discussed ESM more than 20 times and worked through hundreds of pages of documents. We have received opinions and analyses from representatives of the Supreme Court, the EFSF organisation, Eesti Pank and independent experts. I do not remember any decision of the Riigikogu in the last five years, which would have been preceded by such a thorough preliminary work. But there's a reason. There are few decisions on which so much depends. By far, I do not mean the 1.3 billion euros that Estonia guarantees when joining the ESM. Estonia's current obligations in ESM's predecessor, EFSF, are much higher and our share of each new aid loan would decrease by more than a third if we joined the ESM. When calculating the facts in this way, joining the ESM is also the objective interest of the largest Eurosceptics. By far, I do not mean EUR 148.8 million, which Estonia will pay in five instalments of ESM capital. In the coming years, the taxpayer will contribute much more to the investments of many state companies, and Estonia still owns large amounts of euro area sovereign bonds. We are also participating in the International Monetary Fund (IMF) with a significant contribution, and so far there has been no reason to regret joining a few decades ago, on the contrary. By far, I mean no more or less than the financial stability of the European Union. The stability of the world's largest single market for people and businesses in Estonia, created by the desire of many countries to live more prosperously with loans. Estonians know that a loan can only lead a more prosperous life for a short time. We have an old saying about a loan bread and a flatfire. We believe that economic success can only be brought by proper public finances and, of course, we are concerned by any country that conducts diametrically differently with the state's purse, seemingly kind, but loosely in reality. There is no doubt that the Estonian economy is directly linked to the European economy, and European stability is our most direct interest. We expect rapid and sufficient efforts from the countries that have shaken Europe's financial stability to balance our budgets, and we are not ashamed to say this out loud. The ESM can be a painkiller for debt disease, or a time-winner; an antibiotic course, or actual treatment, must be carried out by the countries themselves. This treatment requires structural reforms, cuts in excessive and excessive expenditure and substantial improvements in tax receipts. Of course, a certain course of medicine would also be useful for some countries that have not yet come to ask for an aid loan. Good Estonians! I do not see any people in this Chamber who do not have a single speck of hesitation about the future of Europe. I see a couple who believe that they know a better solution to the crisis than the ESM, and they therefore hesitate in principle. I understand and respect their views, although I myself see much greater uncertainty about alternative solutions. I try to understand, although with difficulty, also those who vocally demand a referendum or simply oppose it. I understand, therefore, that, in the case of complex issues, slogan opposition is certainly a popular tactic in the short term, but with difficulty, because the call for a referendum on a subject where the Constitution clearly excludes it does not honor any serious politician. There are topics, external agreements, financial commitments to the state including, which cannot be simplified to yes-no choice. These decisions require thorough knowledge, consideration of many aspects and a fully considered decision. This is what the good people of Estonia have chosen us for: responsible and thoughtful decisions, not populist exclamations. I see many in this Chamber who are convinced, as a result of a thorough approach to the issue, that the creation of the ESM and lending under strict conditions is an essential step towards helping a number of sovereignised countries and with them a new uprising across Europe. They soberly calculate that the welfare of Estonia and Estonians depends most directly on the success of Europe. The amount of our salary, our pension and our national budget allocations will depend on it. They know that 71% of people in Estonia have faith in the future of the euro area, and according to opinion polls, they support the euro as a currency. Does the ESM provide a 100% guarantee to resolve the debt crisis? Absolutely not. But no one has formulated a holistic solution that is more likely to succeed. The cost of bankruptcy of any euro area country would probably be much more costly for Estonia and the people of Estonia, including. Estonia is the last country in the euro area whose parliament is discussing joining the ESM. We know that a large part of Europe is waiting for our decision. But we also know that the people of Estonia expect us not to rush, but to make a deliberate decision. We wanted to be sure that joining the ESM was in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, and we got it. In fact, we got much more, and the Supreme Court gave a number of questions of fundamental importance. I'd quote two, even though there were a lot more. One: 'In a situation where the rest of the euro area would be in difficulty, Estonia would probably not be able to succeed financially or economically, including in terms of personal income, quality of life and social security. ' Secondly, 'Estonia cannot comply with its constitutional objectives by means of the measures planned to achieve or achieve the common goal of the euro area countries. " The Supreme Court made it clear that financial stability is a constitutional value. In other words, in order to ensure the welfare of the Estonian people and economic stability in the Estonian country, we cannot stand aside from maintaining the stability of the euro area as a whole. Good fellows! Those who expect the Reform Party Group and I, as their representative, to agite someone here today to vote in favour of joining the ESM. The only thing we expect from you, good fellows, is a state-manly and well-considered decision and abstinence from populism and slogan opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U324	Thank you very much, Mr Javier. Now I would like to ask for the speaker's colleague, Mrs Vassilyev, as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U325	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to talk a little bit about what state we are in, the financial crisis and the ESM in this context. In fact, we are on the verge of a very deep crisis and this crisis is probably deeper than many politicians would like to admit. When we talked about EFSF here a little less than a year ago, Portugal and Ireland were the main topic and Greece was the focus. Today, the situation has become that Cyprus and Spain have been added to them, and Italy is also being talked about very seriously. Even if these countries were to play a role as beneficiaries, this would mean that a third of the euro area countries would be beneficiaries, and this is a very, very black scenario. While the potential domino effect of market distrust was identified as one of the threats in the case of EFSF, it is now being fully realised, and new countries have come. Any bad or negative news for one country or another has an impact on the price of the bonds of the following potentially problematic countries on the market. In fact, we have come to a situation where countries that should not be directly affected by the debt crisis are starting to feel on their own how the mistrust of the financial markets also reaches the real economy. A good example is the northern neighbour of Finland, Estonia's main economic or export partner, who has to talk about adjusting its economic growth practically close to zero. There is only one step from there to our own exports and from there to our own real economy. As a result, three opinions have spread, which could even be described as naive. These are all relatively black and white opinions, none of which actually apply. First opinion: If the ESM fails to enforce, it will not give a noticeable negative signal to the already fragile financial market. I'm sure he will. The second view that the ESM is the key to resolving the debt crisis is equally naive and does not correspond to reality. The third opinion is that the guarantee we provide, which is capital to be called up in the sense of the ESM, is purely theoretical, must never be faced with realising it, and it could even be said of as an investment from which dividends can be expected. This, too, is extremely naive given the depth of the current crisis. Now, if you come to the draft we're discussing, I got to read the essay from the good finance minister yesterday. It spoke of the Estonian language and its use. I quote: 'The clarity of the word and the credibility of the giver require a sustainable word, a purposeful thought development, and abstinence from the parasites. ' Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U326	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U327	Unfortunately, the same draft, which the Minister was forced to defend here, goes a long way past this very principle. The same can be said of the explanatory memorandum, which is long, but unfortunately not very thorough, and which lacks any focus. In the case of the draft, it can also be pointed out what the Minister for Finance has said publicly, i.e. that the ESM debate should not be held in public, much more reasonable to do so between the walls protecting the Commission. From this point of view, this bill is included. It tries to give the European Union Affairs Committee a significant amount of competence, to change how the Riigikogu currently works, what the rights of the Riigikogu Board are, what the rights of the grand Chamber of the Riigikogu are. All these rights are laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act and the Rules of Procedure Act also provides for the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. In other words, if the Riigikogu wishes to give part of its competence to the Committee on European Union Affairs, if the majority of the Riigikogu considers that the Minister of Finance is right and the competence of the Riigikogu and, after that, the competence of the Riigikogu is not such as to hold these debates and debates in this large Chamber, then in itself the Riigikogu is entitled to do so. But this right of the Riigikogu cannot transcend the current Constitution and should, in procedural terms, comply with it. In general, it could be said that this government bill is quite embarrassing, one might even say, that it is shameful that such a bill has come from the government to the Riigikogu. It would certainly be a disgrace to the Riigikogu if this bill were adopted in this form. The Social Democrats certainly cannot support the adoption of the draft in the proposed form, whether or not one of our members supports the ESM in itself or not. If there is a desire to accept it, then this procedure should certainly work hard in the Riigikogu and move forward. Finally. In the case of the ESM, there has been a great deal of talk about solidarity in the past, and the Minister of Finance spoke today about dignity. The Social Democrats believe that solidarity and dignity should be enjoyed not only by being at a table with the finance and prime ministers of other countries, but also by the parliament of the Republic and the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U328	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. I would like to invite my colleague Jüri Ratas as a representative of the Central Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U329	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! Today, in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, we are discussing the law on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism. This is a very important issue that not only takes on the responsibility of the government currently in power, but also the responsibility of its law for the following governments. Decisions that are so important take time, because they still need to be considered from all sides and from different angles. On 12 March, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder addressed the Supreme Court with a request to declare Article 4 (4) of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, signed in Brussels on 2 February 2012, incompatible with the Constitution. Article 4 (4) of the ESM Agreement allows for the use of the urgency procedure for the adoption of decisions. In that case, a qualified majority of 85% of the votes cast shall be required for the adoption of the decision. This means that the six largest countries can push their wishes through despite the opposition of others in urgent proceedings. In the judgment of the Supreme Court of 12 July, it was found that Article 4 (4) of the ESM Treaty affects the financial competence of the Riigikogu, but the interference was justified in the opinion of ten Supreme Courts by a stable economic environment based on the ESM, which is essential for ensuring constitutional values and fundamental rights. Essentially, these ten judges were guided by ancient diplomacy: the purpose consecrates the means. Nine judges of state held the opposite view, or considered Article 4 (4) of the European Stability Mechanism to be incompatible with the Constitution. In addition, the Supreme Court warned that the mandate of the 2003 referendum, which has so far been given in the last referendum, will be exhausted and the people have not agreed to delegate Estonia's competence to the European Union without restriction. There are similar litigations in other Member States, such as Germany. Estonia's participation in the ESM is 1,302 billion euros, of which 148.8 million euros are to be paid in real money, plus the required capital up to 1.1532 billion euros, which can be enforced against Estonia. This is a very large amount of money coming from the wallet of Estonian taxpayers. In 2023, our contribution to the ESM will increase by a third. In a situation where Estonia's public debt is only 6.6%, but our child benefit is 19 euros per month, the average old age pension is 318 euros per month and a fifth of the population lives in relative poverty, it is understandable that many Estonian people are critical of lending to richer countries. Today's draft says that the amounts paid by the ESM will be included in the state budget and the Government of the Republic will submit an additional draft budget to the Riigikogu after taking decisions. This year, Estonia will have to pay around 60 million euros in real money to the ESM, half of which is foreseen in the 2012 state budget, but the other half is still open. The ESM's predecessor, EFSF, had to be or would be a fire extinguisher and the ESM had to deal with substantive problems. However, it does not seem that there have been any substantive problems to date. According to Eurostat, 12 euro area countries exceeded the 60% debt ratio set out in the Maastricht criteria in the first quarter of this year. The fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria cannot be a mere goal of joining the euro area; these criteria must be followed by all Member States on a daily basis. Issues are also raised by the treatment of the ESM's national proceedings. The Central Party of the Riigikogu is of the opinion that decisions of such importance cannot only be taken by the Committee on European Union Affairs, but must be taken at the plenary sessions of the Riigikogu in order to ensure maximum representation and transparency in the debate. I'm asking for half a minute more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U330	Please, a minute more!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U331	In addition, we believe that one draft should not include the ratification and national implementation of an external agreement. We want this draft to be split into two, one for ratification by the ESM, and the other for national implementation. Consequently, the Centre Party Group proposes to reject the draft 254 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U332	Thank you. Finally, I would like to ask Mrs Sven Sester as a representative of the Group of the Isemaa and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U333	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months, Estonia has been increasingly talking about whether we really need to contribute money to Europe's financial crisis regions, but we are small in terms of volumes and opportunities. The slogans that were previously essentially on the lips of the Eurosceptics have quietly found ground among the general public. Many have raised questions: what are the values of being in Europe, why the ESM is being created, and what are our transfers to European financial and economic markets, how much will we receive from Europe and how much will we pay back? The financial crisis that hit the world economy at the end of 2008 has had a number of adverse consequences for the economies of the Member States of the European Union: the severe instability of financial markets, the recession, the deepening of fiscal deficits and debt burdens. Financial difficulties in some Member States could pose a serious threat to financial stability across Europe. In order to support Member States in financial difficulties and thereby safeguard the financial stability of the European Union, a stabilisation-oriented package of activities has been set up within the European Union. The ESM is part of this package. The ESM will be set up as an international financial institution and will be set up with a specific objective: to provide stability support and financial assistance to ESM members in severe financial difficulties, under strict economic policy conditions, where this is essential for the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and its Member States. I stress that aid can only be granted under strict economic policy conditions. Participation in the ESM is a guarantee for Estonia that euro area countries in economic difficulties do not jeopardise the security of the euro area as a whole and do not jeopardise Estonia's financial stability. However, when assessing the importance and necessity of the ESM, we cannot overlook the possible situation in which we ourselves have to ask for external support in order to stabilise our economy and finances. Although the fiscal policy of the Estonian state has been conservative and every additional commitment is carefully considered, joining the ESM gives us a long-term guarantee to obtain loans to ensure the functioning of the state and the fulfilment of sovereign debt in crisis situations where the state does not have access to loan money or the conditions of the loan offered are clearly unreasonable. Today's debate and questions show that this is a difficult and difficult decision. This is not just a financial issue; it is a question of trusting the European economy. Trust, however, is not an exact science. Trusting people and people are neither perfect nor rational. Let us look at or the US debt burden and compare it with that of Europe, but nobody talks about the crisis in the same tone. It is clear that southern Europe needs reforms and these aid packages are one, although apparently an expensive way to achieve this. Unfortunately, countries do what is necessary mostly when there is nothing else left. I am not convinced that the current packages will actually not allow reforms to be postponed. Maybe a horrible ending would be better than an endless horror, we don't know that. There is currently a choice of support packages in Europe. In any case, a situation cannot continue indefinitely where countries that have played by the rules guarantee the costs of those who do not act by the rules. It is neither moral nor viable for other countries in the long term. Aid can only be granted under strict economic policy conditions, even if promises are honoured. Estonia is more symbolic in the ESM package and, in European terms, a non-financial player. Yes, it is a lot of money for us, but for Europe, we are players with less than 0.2%. At the same time, no European country is losing our role in European decision-making. The main costs are borne by the large countries, in particular Germany. The question is how long Germany still has the capacity to take on commitments. If there's a border in Germany, there's nowhere to go. This limit is no longer far off and therefore the following similar packages are already relatively unlikely. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners, To say that our guarantee may not go into operation, that we never have to spend that money, and that the costs will be refunded would not be fair. It is difficult to predict the future and it is difficult to estimate any probability. We must always consider that we must actually pay out these sums. This must always be taken into account by each guarantor. This situation would certainly be difficult for Estonia, but not economically intolerable. I stress: this amount does not put us at risk of being ourselves, but it is also a border for Estonia, from which it would be very difficult to go. The firewall in which we participate also protects Estonia. If Europe falls into a crisis and the major economies go into a real recession, then it will also mean costs for Estonia because export revenues and, as a result, tax revenues will disappear. For example, a 10% reduction in tax revenue represents more than EUR 400 million per year for the state budget. A 1% reduction in GDP means EUR 159 million less goods and services that we can consume less. I would point out here that gross domestic product fell by almost 15% in 2009. Tax revenues decreased drastically, the economy was on its feet, the state reserves melted like early spring snow. On the one hand, thanks to heavy cut decisions, on the other hand, thanks to the reserves previously collected, we managed to get out of that hole. We have not yet called for a guarantee, as Finland has done. It is also morally more difficult for us to do this because the European taxpayers who supported Estonia with nearly 3 billion in recent years do not require guarantees from us. They don't even ask for that money back, they're gonna help us. Estonia will receive nearly EUR 3.5 billion in structural support from Europe for the years 2007 to 2013, while we will pay back nearly a billion to Europe at the same time. As I said earlier, it is not about guarantees or credit, but about real money that Estonia has received and is about to receive. A specific issue is the extension of a model in which countries are no longer formally participating, and the essence of the situation is that the European Central Bank will start lending money to countries without laying down substantive rules and conditions. At first glance, it is beautiful, but it is clear that at one point it will mean a real decline in inflation, people's and corporate savings. This should be done with caution. Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL is not in solidarity with the living, and the IRL Group is in solidarity with those who defend the stability of our common economic space. The IRL Group considers that the Riigikogu's plenary must play a clear and dominant role in the implementation of the European Stability Mechanism. The IRL Group supports the completion of the first reading and the work on the draft in order to clarify possible powers and competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-08-08_U334	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. As all the representatives of the political groups have been able to perform, I will conclude the negotiations. However, a proposal by the Estonian Centre Party to reject bill 254 at first reading has come to the board of the Riigikogu and we must vote through it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to reject the draft Act 254 on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading. Please vote! 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 56 were against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 254 amendments in s. 21 August 2010 at 10 a.m. First reading of Bill 254 is complete. Dear Riigikogu, please pay attention! The following extraordinary session would be held on 30 August at 10 a.m. On the agenda is the second reading of the draft Act 254 on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. The extraordinary session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 4.21 p.m.
