ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 48 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 53 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U2	Let's start with the first question. Mr Mikko has a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U3	Estonia has served congratulations in Brussels by a NATO Member State, which, as one of the few, spends 2% of its GDP on defence with the US and Great Britain. In fulfilling the allied responsibilities in the fight against terrorism and wishing to gain the best battle experience, the Estonian company is not a safety issue in North Afghanistan, but a unrest in South Afghanistan. However, the situation in Afghanistan has become sharply strained in recent days. This has been facilitated by the desecration of U.S. marine bodies in January, the burning of the Islamic Scriptures in February and Sunday by the American soldier's amok race, which meant the killing of 16 villagers in Afghanistan. What exactly has the Estonian Government done to ensure that the security of Estonian Defence Forces is ensured in Helmand now and in the future that we do not have to worry about Estonian boys?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U4	Thank you. First of all, of that 2%. 2% of GDP is not just a promise that Estonia has made to its NATO partners, but contributing 2% to national defence is our vital need. Our defence needs to be strengthened. As a reminder, we started building national defence 20 years ago. If other countries have been able to contribute to the protection of their country for decades, even hundreds of years, we have only been able to build considerable defence forces in 20 years, but they are not yet ready. There are no safe places in Afghanistan. Perhaps a few very safe, area-limited areas can be found, but it is generally not right to share Afghanistan on the basis that the base is safe and the south is unsafe. Threats can threaten people in any region in Afghanistan. In a war situation, threats are assessed daily and action is taken according to threat assessments. The Estonian contingent in Afghanistan has never lost its sense of safety, and this cannot be done even if it is known that the end of the Afghanistan mission has already been determined.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U5	Please, Mr Mikko, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U6	Before the American soldier killed 16 villagers, Washington Post and ABC News conducted a survey. This shows that 60% of Americans are required to end the war more quickly in Afghanistan. In view of our 150 soldiers in Afghanistan, I ask: does Estonia have a plan B, for example, if the situation in Afghanistan should take a particularly bad turn for NATO?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U7	The situation in Afghanistan is not taking a very bad turn for NATO. Yes, it's regrettable that one soldier's actions came out of his mind. Both the Secretary-General of NATO and the President of the United States have apologised for this. Not only in Christian culture, but in all cultures, when heartfelt repentance and apologies are made for something that has been badly done, they are also forgiven. Let it be said that this year the losses of the ISAF have been much lower than in previous years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U8	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U9	Let me get this straight. The government hasn't given us an Afghan signal in these three days, so that our boys need special security?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U10	Thank you. You're acting like a very strong expert. You could also suggest why this signal could be transformed on site. The safety risks of our boys, as well as of girls and women, are assessed daily and every hour. If the risks increase, security measures will be taken. No one has ever had, nor is it planning to lose their sense of danger in Afghanistan either now or in the future, I mean Estonia's contingent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U11	Now three issues registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Tõnis Kõvus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U12	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Indeed, the security of Estonian soldiers, but indeed the security of the entire Estonian state, is a very important issue. That is why we have joined NATO and we will also contribute 2% of GDP from the state budget for the first time this year. Understandably, national security has a very clear link to the money it contributes to its defence capabilities. Did you understand that at least one Social Democratic Riigikogu believes that this 2% expenditure should not be reduced in this year or in the following years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U13	Thank you. I've given my opinion many times, I can repeat that again. National defence is not something that needs to be dealt with or can be dealt with in good times and which does not have to be dealt with when times are no longer so good. National defence is not a luxury for one nation and state, but national defence is a responsibility of the people and state and must not be neglected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U14	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U15	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I agree with you that there are certainly no safe places in Afghanistan. I also agree with you that the security situation is being monitored daily and everything is being done to protect our defence forces there. It is known that these unfortunate incidents of burning the Koran as well as killing civilians have exacerbated the situation in several regions, certainly both in Kandahar and Kabul. In the news, we have seen demonstrations in Jalalabad, for example, in the eastern part of the country. Are you aware of the assessments of the evolution of the security situation in relation to these incidents in Helmand? Have we been informed that the situation there and the attitude towards the ISAF forces in the areas where our defence forces serve have undergone some kind of change?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U16	Thank you. Based on some serious data, it is not possible to claim that the attitude has changed or that the attitude has not changed. In Estonia, too, it is not possible to conduct opinion polls in such a short period of time to confirm changes in attitudes in different counties, even though it is not possible to do so in Afghanistan. For every television viewer, including you, and for me, it is clear that the burning of the Koran and the killing of 16 civilians in the local population could not create positive feelings. Desperateness is understandable to me, to you, to the Secretary-General of NATO, and to the President of the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U17	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U18	Thank you. Prime Minister! The defence forces and our NATO allies will hopefully be able to respond adequately to the changed security threats, although this may not be the case with regard to the morals of our soldiers. We know that a few days ago, the German Chancellor visited Afghanistan, and now the US Secretary of Defense was there. Does the government intend to take such measures to provide moral support to our soldiers in this new, very tense situation in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U19	Thank you. We have tended to see either the Commander of the Defence Forces, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister in the crisis area, including Afghanistan, attending at least once a year, more frequently if necessary. That is what we intend to stick to in the future. None of the countries whose Prime Minister, President, Minister of Defence or Minister of Foreign Affairs is planning a visit to Afghanistan will be notified until they are present in Afghanistan. This is not a matter of internal decision in this country, it is an agreed set of rules to ensure the safety not only of these people, but also of the Afghan people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U20	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U21	The next question is from my colleague, Yana Toom, to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, On Saturday, I read a newspaper on the plane for three hours. It was the Postman with your opinion on "The Truth and Right of the Dialogue." Because of my circumstances, I read it several times. I really liked it, I'm telling you the truth. You blamed the strikers for all kinds of violations and injustice of good practice in dialogue. One question, however, was, in my opinion, completely unanswered. Would you be willing to say a few words about whether as a member of your government you learned anything from the lesson that we were all witnesses of last week in Estonia when there was a huge strike wave?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U23	Thank you. Of course I did, and I think whoever read the story was gonna make sure of it. However, my views, which have not changed, can also be read in this text. I certainly did not condemn injustice to anyone, but rather a lie ("unfairness" is not the exact word), a false background and the wrong estimates used to justify this crisis. In my story, I did a little dissect these motives, such as the topic of support strikes and social dialogue, or directly estimates of teachers' salaries, which were still very exaggerated. I never call the teacher's salary high, but I don't think it's right to manipulate lies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U24	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, As you probably know, I've been elected more of a representative of the Russian community. Can you, please, decipher such sentences to Russian-speaking people: "As a result, the strike woke up the inherent fears that Estonia hoped to cope with in the decade before last. Red flags, foreign language demands to exchange government, threat of paralyzed energy supply, national language and other advocacy to the state, these talk about the failure of the game with fire"?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U26	Thank you. As the representative of your Russian electorate, you are certainly much better at deciphering and translatoring it than I am. You also understand that this is a reference to Estonia's security and national relations. If there is still a clear political demonstration in the Estonian region and on the wrong pretext, if this demonstration is extended to protest against the fundamentals of the Estonian state, then I think it was necessary to say these sentences. But you're a better explainer. We have always had our own Russian wing in the party. I have explained to these people that their greatest mission is still to prove that the two peoples have common interests, not different interests, that politics does not need to represent one nation, but the entire Estonian people and the common interests of the nations. As far as the interests of smaller groups are concerned, for example, in the case of culture, the Estonian state, despite the fact that we have Russian-speaking ambassadors, will never need to appear as a defender of Russian culture. However, the best defender of Russian culture is the Russian state; Estonia must focus its scarce resources on Estonian culture. That's what the Constitution says.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U27	Please, Mr Toom, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm going to be more specific. Did you say that during last week's strike wave, there were some Russian-speaking, pro-Russian or pro-Russian demonstrations that threatened the security of the Estonian state, or did you refer to the teacher's meeting at the Liberty Square, which included posters such as "Uchiteljam Dostoinjuu Zarplatu" (Teachers' Dignified Salvation) when you wrote this article? Do you think these posters threaten the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U29	Thank you. I was most concerned with economic security in terms of security. In the late 1980's and early 1990's, the Estonians were terrified by the idea that the steppe would be pulled out and simply starved and frozen into obedience. It was fear. I think you know those times, too. But calling for the government's resignation, when presented in a foreign language, is something that frightens many people in Estonia, awakens old fears from the time that Interrinne, who had similar slogans, ravaged Northeast Estonia and Tallinn. I remember something like this from 2007 when, unfortunately, there were also demands in Estonian on the surface of the most acute disturbances that the government would resign. But in Russian, these slogans will undoubtedly be the most frightening. If people are still coming from Russia and are being demanded, then I think that those who are now conveying this idea and recall these times, so that as if the government were to be attacked, should blush. These are the public figures who warm up these old things and claim that the Estonian Government had great choices here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U30	Please, a matter registered on the spot, my colleague, Mrs Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U31	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ligi! The government came up after the strike with the message that trade union demonstrations and support strikes were political and pro-Kremlin. I also happened to watch "The Three-Brong," where you said that the strikers were interns. The host corrected you and asked if you thought the teachers were one of them. Then you said so and so. Then Siim Kallas came in with his article, where he said that only Bolshevik politicians politicise strikes. But how is it possible that the strike is not political? How is that even possible? In my opinion, the strike is still behind the political demands. What happened in front of our house today was also a strike against price increases and all that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U32	Thank you. Where do we start now? The government hasn't come up with the same message. I've written my own speeches and articles. It was my duty to show the other side, too, because the organisers of the strike have so far not been subject to any criticism in the media. Sorry, but in the last few days, things have improved, mostly in restricted media. I certainly didn't call strikers inter fronters. I told you this company and their style would largely overlap, and those memories were resurrected. As far as political strikes are concerned, it can be said that so far there is a consensus in the Riigikogu that we do not support political strikes because they are very dangerous, it is a game with fire and, among other things, a game with national relations. You can't deny that, can you? As far as policy is concerned, the organisers of strikes were recently assessed in a study by the European Commission as having Marxist-Leninian perceptions and roots. It's not my fiction, it's an independent assessment. They certainly think that red flags and a strong attack will overthrow every power, and that is what brings wealth. They think so, just like you. I think you are a strategic alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U33	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U34	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You mentioned in your reply that the posters that carried the message that the government should resign were frightening. Were they frightening for you as a member of the current government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U35	Thank you. I'm not a coward and I'm above these things. If it doesn't go too far, then I'm willing to be a victim, but I'm certainly not giving in to such fears, I'm not giving in to such pressure either politically or financially. However, I pointed out that these were inherent fears that were awakened when we saw this style on TV, these demands and these threats that if there were to be an obstacle to the reduction of electricity generation, there would be serious consequences. Those were the words that sounded from the national broadcasting. Please note that this was a call for physical rebellion. At the same time, this protest was certainly built on false grounds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U36	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U37	The next question is from my colleague Jaan Õunapuu to Minister of Culture Rein Lang.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U38	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In July 2006, the government confirmed the objects that it wanted to support with European money. The amount was EEK 790 million, half a billion of which had to go to the Estonian National Museum to build a new building. Estonia was clearly told that the cultural objects proposed are eligible. This has also been demonstrated by future practice: these items have either been funded or are still being funded. The government changed in April 2007. Following this, regional minister Kiisler incomprehensiblely amended the current content of the implementing regulation to the public, which meant that the 2006 decision became null and void and a new application round was announced. For the sake of historical truth, I would like to know whose pressure and why it was necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U39	Thank you, Jaan! As always, I answer honestly: I have no idea, I have no idea! In 2007, I dealt with other things, not cultural investments. If you have some kind of document that clearly shows that ERM as a cultural object had qualified for European Union funds, I would be happy to take this document and look at it. As we know, the European Union does not have a measure at all that could be translated into Estonian as a measure for preserving cultural heritage, as a measure for national museums. The English term for this is national heritage. ERM money was also requested from another measure, a measure to strengthen the competitiveness of the regions. In essence, it is a tourism measure. But once again, if you have some official document that makes it clear that Siim Valmar Kiisler has changed the decision on the basis of which the ERM would have had money in its pocket, I would be happy to look at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U40	Please, Mr Õunapuu, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U41	Thank you. The 2006 Government's decision on this exists. However, the years 2007 and 2009 have been described by former Minister of Culture Laine Randjärv, who has claimed that the coordination of the new draft was slowing down because the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Interior had a different understanding of the main objectives of the operational programme. An agreement was reached again in May 2008 and it was still a long time before the government decided in March 2009 which projects would be included in the investment plan. As far as the rest of the items that were listed in 2006 are concerned, they are basically all funded, as I said on my first question. Mr. Minister! If there were no confusion or a new call for proposals opened, would you think that the ERM building would be ready for today on the Tartu Raad?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U42	No, absolutely not. I think, Jaan, you're confusing something. This internal regulation is one thing, but the rules under which the European Union finances certain projects are quite another. I am absolutely certain that there could not have been such a regulation in Estonia in 2007 either, which would have unambiguously confirmed the financing of ERM construction from European Union funds. Absolutely not. But once again, if you had such a document, I'd be happy to watch it too. At least the Ministry of Culture has no such paper registered. The second question is whether the drafting of new documents was delayed in 2007 in connection with the change of government. One more time, I don't know. I didn't participate in this process. Maybe you know better. But what really happened was simple in itself: this project did not qualify as a tourism promotion project.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U43	Please, Mr Õunapuu, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U44	Thank you. Yes, Mr Lang, indeed, you were Minister of Justice since 2005, but you were still one of the ministers of the government. Okay, let's come from history to today. You, as well as the Prime Minister, have said firmly that a museum will be built for Raad despite the loss of money from Europe. It is well known that almost €9.3 million was needed to prepare the project in 2007-2011. The secret is not that there are other suitors for this cultural capital money, we have heard and seen it lately. I know that in the near future, it will be a matter of decision. Will both sides of the government be willing to approve the financing scheme for the construction of ERM?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U45	Thank you. Once again, as a person who knows the matter, you should know that the share of cultural capital money intended for the construction of cultural objects of national importance can only be used in the current legal space established by the Riigikogu to finance two objects: the building of the Estonian National Museum and the construction of the second stage of the building of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. You said there were other suitors. There can only be one suitor legally if the Riigikogu does not change the lawroom. Yes, of course, the government must make a decision on how to finance the establishment of ERM in this situation. It is clear that cultural capital cannot put out all the money for the construction of ERM at the same time. According to the current tax laws, it drips into the brow, sorry, culture capital on Mother's Day must speak Estonian beautifully over a long period of time. The government will come to this issue tomorrow and hopefully make rational and sensible decisions, once again taking into account the legal space in force. The decision of the Riigikogu of 1996 clearly states which cultural objects are of national importance. There are three of them: Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, Kumu and ERM. This list has not been extended by anyone; it is a final list. This is not a model list.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U46	Now two issues registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Tarmo, from Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U47	Thank you, good manager. Minister Lang! Is this money going to the ERM spread over the years? Is there a prophecy as to how many years ERM will take so much money out of cultural capital that no one else will be there? Has it been calculated that these objects, who would also like to become an important part of national culture and receive money from cultural capital, would know how long they have to wait or how long they have to look for money and find somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U48	Thank you, Tarmo! Don't think anyone might think he's just gonna be on that list! This list is established by the Riigikogu. Which objects are included in this list and which are important cultural objects at national level depends on you and your 100 colleagues. No one in Estonia has the legitimate expectation that the Riigikogu will include him on this list. This is clearly a decision of the legislator. But in answer to the first, substantive part of the question, how long will it take for the cultural capital to finance the entire ERM project, I say that, according to current calculations, 10 to 12 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U49	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Lukas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Following the opinions expressed in the press, it seems that Tartu is far from civilization in a dark primordial region and little about the tourist's foot never stepping there is likely that no Estonian interested in going to the museum, or at least cultural people are not so far from Tallinn. In their applications, the Estonian National Museum has shown that 130,000 visitors are planned each year. I, who I think there is a lot of culture in Tartu, and cultural people from all over the world and Estonia get there often, think that people will definitely go there at least in the first few years, maybe more will come, the lack of people is not a problem. Can you tell if people will end up in the Estonian National Museum in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U51	This question had a very nice start. By the way, I came from Tartu last night. I didn't see bears walking the streets, but maybe they haven't woke up from hibernation yet. Tartu has indeed developed very well lately. A good example is the AHHAA centre established in Tartu, on which success may have been predicted, but certainly not such a success. There are different estimates of the number of people to attend the Estonian National Museum. We note that this is not a traditional museum, one museum among museums, but also a research and educational institution, which gives ERM a completely different task compared to the museum of applied art in Tallinn, for example. Indeed, the project submitted to the European Union states that 130000 people are expected to be there a year. The sociology lab of the University of Tartu, led by Marju Lauristin, has carried out a survey among Estonians and has received a completely different number of clients from ERM. This figure is about twice as much as what we wrote down in the documents that we submitted to Europe. What's the reality, it's only practice, everything else is hypothetical. Many people are already going to ERM, despite the fact that they are operating in the former ENSV railway club. This museum will certainly be one of the great pearls of Estonian museums when it is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U52	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U53	The next question is for Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, my colleague Ester Tuiksole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, In May last year, you submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, which limited tax incentives for the use of fuel. You claimed in the Riigikogu that you are reforming this law in two stages. The second phase was to concern agriculture and the amount of aid for specially labelled fuel used there. You had to submit this draft in autumn 2011. How far away is this system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U55	Thank you. I have a proposal to move on to the next question because I answered an identical question a week ago. We have technical difficulties in implementing this, but we are making further efforts. The idea is right, the idea is fair, it is responsible taxation if we do not support agriculture on the basis of the burning of fossil fuels, but support it differently. But the offer of this scheme is rather the technical work of the Minister of Agriculture. This work is certainly not easy and it is not finished, but we will continue to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U56	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U57	Thank you very much, Madam President. I still want to know how far it is to create this system and when we can come back to it. The winter is coming to an end, spring comes, the same tractor carries out both forest work and agricultural work, and farmers have a legitimate expectation. Will the creation of this system delay you another winter or what opportunities do we have here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U58	Thank you. Once again: let us give time to the following questions, because I have already answered that question. It's working, we'll let you know the results, and it's not easy. But you can ask the Minister for Agriculture the same thing, because he has the big deal in this area right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U59	A question registered on the spot, Mr Sõerd, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The 2013 state budget is currently being prepared. The verification of specially labelled fuel was known to be a beautiful resource-intensive process for the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, which required chemical analysis and sampling. Now that the first stage has been implemented, can we talk about some considerable resources in the Tax and Customs Board, which can be directed from this area to control, for example, the payment of VAT or the payment of envelope wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U61	We're channeling resources to where the violations are greater. That's what we do. I don't know exactly what to say to you because the question was unexpected, but I can tell you that the idea itself, starting with this job, is the right one. The economy cannot be supported by the amount of fossil fuel being burned. Even if it's moral, I think it's better now than it used to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U62	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U63	The next question is from my colleague Neeme the Great to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! On Monday, when you answered the question, you said that the principle of subsidiarity is a central principle in democratic countries. The subsidiarity principle is the principle of subsidiarity, according to which decisions must always be taken at the lowest administrative and political level possible and as close as possible to the citizens. In practice, however, we see that the Estonian state is moving away from the principle of subsidiarity. How, for example, can we talk about the self-determination capacity of local governments when the share of autonomous income in local budgets has fallen from 30% to 15%? If there is no budgetary autonomy, the concept of subsidiarity is meaningless for municipalities. That's my question. What is the government doing so that local governments can actually be self-decidors with appropriate rights and resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U65	Thank you. The current practice must be continued. On Monday, according to my memory, you demanded that all standards be established at the level of the law or, at least, the government. Now you have reached the second extreme and you are calling for all decisions to be made at local government level. If we kept the wagon on the road and didn't move from one ditch to another, things would go well.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U66	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the first point to be clarified. Please ask questions faster!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U67	I was just a little confused, but it's okay. I shall continue with the point to be specified. Only service units remain in smaller locations in the state offices. The decision-making right moved from counties to regional centres a few years ago, but now Tallinn is largely concentrated. Only recently were the regional units of the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board and the Road Administration abolished as independent agencies. Hence my question: how does centralisation in national administrations comply with the principle of subsidiarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U68	Thank you. I am pleased that the result of my Monday's focus is that you have discovered for yourself the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of subsidiarity, but I regret that you have not understood that subsidiarity concerns decision-making, the decision-making process and not the procedure. The state agencies you mentioned are dealing with matters, not decision-making. It's worth going on, so I guess we'll get to the core.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U69	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U70	Yeah, we're definitely gonna get to the core. The procedural processes of these agencies may also include decision-making moments which, unfortunately, have shifted very far from the local level. But more examples. The Emergency Act established in 2009 essentially eliminated the county crisis committees. If there was a problem last year that there was a large number of family doctors missing in the country, the first solution offered by the Ministry of Social Affairs was to move the organisation of family medical care from the responsibility of the county administration to the responsibility of the Health Board. The organisation of rural public transport is intended to be transferred from the county administration's responsibility to the Road Administration. The result of these processes is a sectorally fragmented and centralised public administration model within the sectors. We can read all of this in the OECD report on governance of the country. You said on Monday that the principle of subsidiarity is a central principle in democratic countries. What does this principle of subsidiarity mean in your approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U71	Thank you. The principle of subsidiarity, the principle of subsidiarity, means in a democratic country that decisions are taken at the closest political or administrative level to those of the citizens concerned. I ask you once again: do not confuse decisions and executions. That's two things. Processing and deciding are not the same, they are not synonymous. You referred to a family doctor's appointment. The organisation of family medical care at county level has not ensured that a family doctor has been found in each family doctor's centre because the problem is greater, it is not possible to find a solution within one county. If the central coordinating institution is the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is possible to place family doctors across Estonia in such a way that there is a family doctor at every geographical point. The county alone may not be able to complete this task. It does not have any contact with subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U72	The issue now registered on the ground, Mr Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U73	Thank you. I will also ask about the subsidiarity principle on mother tongue day. Good Prime Minister! In your reply, you mentioned that one way in which the subsidiarity principle could continue to be implemented is to continue with the current policy. Is it clear from this that the government is planning to further reduce the tax autonomy of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U74	If you considered the abolition of sales tax and boat tax imposed by the Social Democratic Party in Tallinn to reduce tax autonomy, then it is already done, it is no longer necessary for the government to continue. I find that the introduction of sales tax and boat tax by you was evil, it raised prices and did not encourage the development of entrepreneurship. Losing sales tax and boat tax was a good and right thing to do. I hope that the Tallinners and the Tallinn entrepreneurs will soon recover from the wounds they have suffered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U75	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Iva.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U76	Thank you. Prime Minister! There was quite a lot of talk about early childhood education about the teacher strike last week. Kindergartens are currently organised and delivered by the local government. In many cases, it has turned out that kindergarten workers are not satisfied with the relationship they have with the local government. They proposed that both the wage bill and the salary should be handed over to the State. What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U77	In a European context, this can and can be different. In Europe, the largest number of public services has been taken to the level of local authorities in the Kingdom of Denmark. Denmark accounts for as much as 60% of all public expenditure at local government level. Denmark is followed by Sweden and Finland in terms of the share of public expenditure at local level. Estonia with its 25% stays in the centre of the European Union. On the other side there are countries where less than 5% of all public expenditure is incurred locally. I do not think that there is a need to reduce the level of public spending currently being made at local level in Estonia. I do not think that we should move towards a more centralised state in Estonia. However, if the people in free democratic elections give such a mandate, I will not rule it out. This is not contrary to the perceptions of European local democracy, but I do not see the need for it at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U78	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U79	The next question is Mr Tammelt, Minister of Finance, for Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary of Finance! Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education, promised to raise the junior teacher's salary to at least 700 euros a month during the teacher's strike. Would the Minister of Finance agree to this guarantee and would be willing to sign it today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U81	Thank you. Am I willing to give guarantees of an increase in teachers' salaries, was that a question? My colleague here was so critical of me that he confused me. I'm sorry! If the Minister of Education says so, I'm sure he knows how to change the education money. Of course, I wouldn't want to increase the incentive for more money to come from somewhere. No, there's no extra money on strike, actually, the strike's gonna get even less money. But the Minister of Education has long wanted to make structural changes within the budget. I'm his fiery ally, and I'm willing to keep that fire on me a little more than my duty. School reform is an option. The second option is that the current costs of education need to be shifted. This is a faster and more operational solution. But I'm sure he knows what he's saying. He also basically introduced me to what he was thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U82	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U83	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I also hope that next year the pay of teachers will rise and rise more than the minimum wage of a junior teacher. But what do you think, Mr Minister, of teachers, kindergarten teachers and others who get paid from the municipal budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U84	Thank you. If anyone gets more money, or anyone else doesn't get more money, the others' share gets smaller, I'm afraid. That's the reality. That's what the president said about the deck ripping situation. It may impose greater justice, but someone will be colder after that, that is absolutely certain. Municipalities have also played a bit of a cynical game here, so you can't generalise, for God's sake, they've behaved completely differently, but if you say by population, there's really much of a cynical game played, the strike has been encouraged and played, including strikes and demonstrations against the government in kindergartens that belong to the municipality itself. It is a highly innovative idea to make their institutions demand a wage increase from the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U85	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U86	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Do you agree with me that when we talk about teachers' average wage, we should also talk about wages according to normal wage levels?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U87	Thank you. You can talk in different ways. When wages were actually cut in most areas during the recession, it also happened that people had to work harder at the same time. It happened to the teachers that the salary wasn't cut, but there was a slight increase in the standard load, that's true, but that was the situation. Less people had to do just as much or even more work. As a result, Estonia is in a much stronger situation today. Speaking of prospects, this is the main reason why Estonia has much better prospects for growth than the overall level of Europe. That way, we all know that, there's gonna be an actual raise, not that we're gonna pull the neighbor's blanket on ourselves, and then we're gonna demand a change of government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U88	A question registered on the ground, Mr Allik, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U89	Minister of Finance! You have said many times, and you have also confirmed today, that supplementary salaries for teachers can only come from within the education system. At the same time, the Minister of Education has promised Estonian teachers 20% higher than the average wage in the country by 2015. You must be stronger than me in math. Can you tell me how many teachers should be concentrated or let go in three years to make this happen and whether any calculations have been made, or whether they have been submitted to you by the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U90	Thank you. The words of the ministers are very strongly distorted by opposition and certainly also by the media. I suggest you use a direct source and ask the Minister of Education what he has actually promised. I do not know that he would have promised teachers 20% higher than the average wage by 2015. I don't believe it. Well, my calculations won't allow that. It's such a big chunk that I'm afraid the teachers won't just survive because they'll be too few. We don't need that. We must not give the wrong impression. All these fine protests to have more rescue commandos and different occupations will end when given up, actually with a lower salary. And vice versa: if we demand a higher salary, we must make structural changes, which the Minister of Education has also promised to organise. But we'll see this plan when it's concrete. The Minister of Education has met me personally on this matter. He's bringing this subject to the office this spring, even this month, as far as I know. I wouldn't underestimate the complexity of this issue, but it might shift a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U91	Thank you. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U92	Thank you. I ask briefly: does the Minister of Education have any calculations on how to find money within the education system for a 20% raise?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U93	Thank you. This is the Minister of Finance speaking. I'm gonna get a fresh look at the education minister's calculations in about a month. I still don't want to be a middleman. I warn everyone who wants a big financial victory that it can be very painful because that money comes at the expense of someone or something. In the case of education, at the expense of education itself, not, I'm saying, at the expense of those whose wages have already been actually cut. In the public sector, I still know very few of those jobs where wages have not been actually cut.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U94	Thank you, Minister of Finance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U95	The next question is from my colleague Jaak All to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U96	Mr Prime Minister! Twenty years of participation in Estonian politics have shaped my conviction that there is one person in our country whose will and word pay. It's the Prime Minister, regardless of who he is. You said that the ERM must be built, and I am absolutely sure that this will happen. Thank you for that. Why do you not want or do not want a new and beautiful building of the Academy of Arts, which has won an international competition for architecture, to be built between offices and department stores in the centre of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U97	Thank you. I've wanted and I want. I have repeatedly confirmed my will in various forums, such as the government press conference. However, coming or not coming to Tallinn city centre in the form designed for the new building does not depend solely on the will of the Prime Minister or the strength of its will. No one of us could have foreseen, when we made the decision to allocate money in the government, that there would be problems of light and shadow that would not allow the building of the Academy of Arts to be authorised by the deadline. Unfortunately, these problems have arisen. I was unable to anticipate these problems, and I am far from accusing the rector of the Estonian Academy of Arts or other leaders of the Academy of Arts of the inability to anticipate such problems. I know that the leaders of the Academy of Arts themselves have also come to the conclusion that during the current financial period, it is not possible to build this building by the deadline, so we need to focus on the resources of the next period. It doesn't mean a very long break in time, most of all this year. The project definitely needs to be taken forward. I do not understand those who think that an empty hole could remain in the centre of Tallinn, where the art academy has always been.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U98	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Our time is up. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for asking questions. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for answering the questions. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U99	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, it is time to hand over drafts and enquiries if colleagues wish to do so. No requests, let's move on with the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement on Privileges and Integrity between the Republic of Estonia and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, initiated on 12 March, of which the commission is the National Defence Commission; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on Competition, initiated on 12 March, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the Development Bank of the Council of Europe" submitted on 12 March, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder. Please, let's do the presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U100	Ladies and gentlemen, We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on collective agreements initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? I call on the speaker's colleague Eiki Nestor as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Social Democrats will vote against this bill. Allow me to explain this to you in the next five minutes and perhaps in the next few minutes, because it seems to have been difficult to understand. I begin by saying that the Chancellor of Justice has not proposed that the Riigikogu amend the law. Why he has not done so has been overlooked. Look, he's avoiding going to the Supreme Court on this subject for one reason alone. A collective agreement is also a contract and is a contract law, but a slightly different contract law. In a contractual relationship, you are, for example, when you go to the store and buy a sausage, but the contractual relationship is also when someone hires a workforce. Contract law in the area of employment relations is, in this sense, a special right to have its own standards in force. For example, in the case of the Employment Contracts Act, these rules are justified by the fact that one of the parties to the contract is already in a weaker position. In the case of collective agreement law, these different rules are linked to the fact that society, knowing the risk of not signing these agreements, is trying to avoid this situation. In other words, the current law is special because, in principle, it is our desire that disputes be resolved through negotiations and agreements, not through strikes or shutters. What happens when this law is passed? A situation arises where one of the parties to the contract receives a large advantage. This contractor, who receives a major advantage, is the employer. At the moment, our law does not have such a concept as 'a permanent collective agreement' and there is no permanent collective agreement. According to the current law, a contract can be concluded for one year unless another deadline has been set. If someone really has written in a collective agreement somewhere a provision that this agreement is eternal, there is nothing simpler to avoid it than to change a completely different section of the law and to say that collective agreements cannot apply for more than three, four or five years. This section does not need to be amended. Now we are doing this paragraph, which means that one of the parties to the contract, or the employer, will have the opportunity during the negotiations, if the other party comes to ask for a higher salary, say that it does not agree with it, and if there is a long fuss, it will also deprive the employees of everything that had previously been agreed. What happens then? There's a much higher probability of a dispute. If Estonian Air had difficulties with the pilots' agreement, it would have been more appropriate to resolve these problems through negotiation. The law in force is no different from that in other parts of Europe. In other words, when the term of validity of the contract is over, the terms of the contract shall be fulfilled until the conclusion of the new agreement. This is linked to the logic of collective and individual employment, since individual employment contracts must comply with collective agreements. I was surprised to hear the inaccuracies here last week. I do not think that the Prime Minister should be very familiar with what is going on in one of the Riigikogu committees, but those who fed him the points of discussion in the "Actual Camera" deliberately lied. The amendments tabled on the draft were written out of a simple logic that this relationship between individual and collective employment contracts should be maintained. One of the solutions offered was the introduction of a national mediator. For example, contracts currently in force have been concluded without this provision. Even as far as they are concerned, the conciliator could have played a role. Then, indeed, the three-month period of notice is too little, so there was also a conciliator. There was a proposal to change it and to move it to six months. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U102	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U103	When they say it was some kind of big response, there are three ways: first, a person doesn't understand what he's talking about, second, he wants to lie a little bit, third, he wants to lie a lot, or he needs this trick for public relations. I generally rely on the knowledge that the members of the Riigikogu are wise and know what they are talking about. Therefore, there are other possibilities, or simply points of conversation, to say the wrong words. If these improvements had really worked out, the buses would have been in Tallinn last Thursday. But they did not, for the simple reason that all of these men have had a 35-day vacation since the first collective agreement concluded in 1991, and they do not want their employer to have the right to say that he will no longer give it to them in the next wage negotiations if a new agreement is made. It is not fair to employees; it is not the right basis for contractual relations. If anyone thinks that Estonia needs more collective labour quarrels in their most extreme form, it will achieve this with this bill. We don't think so. We believe that employers and workers need to talk more among themselves and make agreements, and it is therefore reasonable to reject this draft. It is clear, even if we look at today's reports from the social partners who want to negotiate between the parties in the area of collective labour relations, that these issues can come back. It must also be impertinent if the right of the majority of the Riigikogu, which it has, is considered right to accept that the law is correct. You can't do that. I call on you to vote against this draft honestly, also for the sole reason that this law should enter into force on 1 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U104	Thank you very much, Mr Nestor. As a representative of the Group of the Randper Reform Party, I would like to ask the speaker's colleague Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! We've just listened to Eiki Nestor, and I'm warning you that I'm gonna get back to the story about lying and lying. We'll see what Eiki says after that. But let's start from the beginning. Why was there a need to amend the law on collective agreements? The current collective agreement law is based on the principle that, while a collective agreement is concluded for a limited period of time, the parties to the agreement retain the obligation to continue to comply with the concluded collective agreement. The obligation to continue the completed collective agreement will last until the conclusion of the new collective agreement. If a new agreement fails, such a solution will lead to the continuation of the old agreement forever. There is currently no regulation in the collective agreement law that would allow the end of the concluded collective agreement to cease to exist. This situation is contrary to the Constitution, which has also been brought to the attention of the Chancellor of Justice. In his letter to the Ministry of Social Affairs a year and a half ago, the Chancellor of Justice brought out the conflict between the collective agreement law and the Constitution on three points. One of them was freedom of contract. Freedom of contract means both the right to conclude the contract and the right to withdraw from the contract after the expiry of the deadline, but the freedom of contract could also mean the obligation to comply with the conditions contained in the existing agreements. The freedom of contract cannot be a one-way street, which, when waving rattling and red flags, is blocked by a party who spits not only on traffic rules but also considers the Constitution to be a piece of paper that can be changed by extortion. The International Labour Organisation (ILO), which is loved to quote here, has made it very clear about 'eternal collective agreements' that they hinder normal social dialogue and ignore the genuine interests of workers. Let us talk a little bit about how this process of change and the procedure took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Over the last few weeks, there have been constant complaints that trade unions were not involved, were not informed, were not asked and their opinions were not taken into account. That's completely wrong. Trade union representatives have visited this house repeatedly, they have met both the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs, with whom we held a separate meeting. They have been to the Committee on Legal Affairs; they have tabled their amendments. At present, I have in my hands such a semi-secret "agenda" of trade unions, which states what they actually wanted to achieve by amending this law. Eiki Nestor told me that the wrong points of talk were fed up. So I'm quoting now. Maybe it's not very nice to quote a half-secret document, but since I didn't steal it from someone else's mailbox, I read it from my e-mails, then I quote. Trade unions' proposal No 1: "In order to achieve an optimal solution, an extraordinary cancellation could take place through a national conciliator. Possible wording: "An irrevocable collective agreement may be terminated exceptionally by either party after the conciliation procedure provided for in § 11 of the Act on the settlement of a collective labour dispute has ended, giving notice to the other party at least three months." " Now listen to the alternative proposal 2. It provides that if the legislator does not consider it possible to implement the previous proposal (i.e. the conciliation procedure to which you referred) the deadline for the termination of the collective agreement should be extended so that the parties can resolve any conflict of work by peaceful means. The possible wording coincides entirely with the wording that the amendment to the collective agreement law contains today: three months before the deadline and six months after the deadline, the contract can be cancelled. Trade unions have written exactly this: if the legislator does not consider it possible to implement the previous proposal. Eiki said here that it was meant to be accompanied by this other one, so that the national mediator could be involved, etc. I am simply because I am a good person, allowing the unions here today to point out that if an employer has the intention to cancel a collective agreement with a six-month notice period, then this time could also be used to go to the national mediator. We need to try and resolve these matters kindly. If this doesn't work, there's nothing I can do. I will say a few more thoughts to the trade unions after the events of last week and last months. First of all, so far, the legislator had given you the malaka and the negotiations took place in a position of strength. For many of you, it has not occurred to me that the success of your employer is a prerequisite for your success, not the other way around. We love to compare ourselves to our neighbors. Politicians, especially those in the opposition, believe that we should not compare ourselves with our own fellow fates from the former socialist camp, but from the Nordic countries. I'm going to ask you a comparison and a question. We all know that Sweden is rich and Estonia is slightly less rich. Our common denominator is, for example, that we, as well as they, have social democrats and trade unions. Since the Socats and their henchmen exist on both sides, they cannot therefore be the source of Swedish wealth. If we continue to look for differences, I will offer you some possible differences: Atlas Copco, Boliden, Scania, Electrolux, SSAB, AstraZeneca, Volvo, Swedish Match, ABB, Hennes & Mauritz, Ericsson, Sandvik, etc. These are just a few Swedish companies whose existence and success have made Swedish society as a whole a success. The market value of Ericsson alone is about four times greater than the budget of the Estonian state. Do any of you believe that this value is due to strikes and threats to shut down electricity in all of Sweden? Or maybe there's years of work behind this wealth. It may sound very boring and tragic, but wealth is created by work and not by strike, wealth is created by companies and not by the state. Now a little bit about last week and then about democracy. The Riigikogu elections took place a year ago and the elections were won by the Reform Party, and together with the IRL we formed the government. The only promise made by the Reform Party in the elections was that we would keep public finances in order. I would like to remind you once again that the elections were not won by the Socialists or the Centre Party, who promised the people a cake jam that they intend to pay with car tax, real estate tax, progressive income tax and loans. Dear opponents! Try to accept the idea that you lost the elections and that the majority of the Estonian people do not believe in the fairy tales of your cake jam! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U106	I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U107	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U108	Please reply, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U109	No, I'm staying here...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U110	Since my name was called in the speech, I'm entitled to a reply. That's not a question. Mr. Randpere, you may leave.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U111	Wait a minute, there's no dialogue! Please! (Moaning in the hall. Andres Anvelt's interjection: "Get out! ") Please, Eiki Nestor, the line!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U112	Thank you, manager. First of all, the call that sounded. If our changes had worked out, employers would have been able to go to the conciliator. At the moment, this will remain an appeal because the national conciliator has no right to deal with such waivers in any way. Secondly, I would like to say that free microphone time is Monday. Thirdly, on the basis of a reply, I would like to say that this draft law and, for example, the exclusion of unemployment insurance benefits, were not allowed by the parties currently in power either before or after the elections, but they are doing so now and now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U113	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi, what is the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U114	Today's English day, I want to express my frustration. In my opinion, it is not appropriate for the Estonian Parliament to use such words as 'pull out'. It was my first time in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U115	I'm sorry, but it wasn't a procedural question! Let's continue the negotiations. I would like to ask you to speak as a representative of the political group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Apart from the extensive wave of strikes and demonstrations, it should also have become clear to the coalition how much the protesters were affected by the draft law amending the collective agreement law, among other demands, which is intended to be adopted today by the coalition's votes. Since this bill unexpectedly appeared on our tables, it has been accompanied by rattles and lies. We never found out who did this bill from Randpere, the leader of the bill. The answer that this was made by the Committee on Legal Affairs is not really true. A letter from the Chancellor of Justice was drawn up, but this letter was sent to the Minister of Social Affairs in June 2010, so almost two years ago. I would stress that it was not sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs but to the Minister for Social Affairs. The Minister of Social Affairs, Pevkur, did not consider it necessary to amend this law at that time. There was no mention of a conflict with the Constitution and its swift elimination, just asking for an analysis of one aspect or another. This letter was not written in an ultimatic nature. In addition, this letter spoke of the need to ensure the stability of employment relations, to take account of the continuation of the terms of the collective agreement even after the expiry of the agreement. Two years later, suddenly it was so urgent that there was no time to wait for this bill to be submitted by the Ministry. The reform of collective labour relations is part of the coalition's work plan anyway, but it was nevertheless desired to change one point separately at an extremely rapid rate. For a week now, we have heard the argument for both the media and the strikers that the law had to be changed quickly in response to a request from the Chancellor of Justice. I repeat: I cannot talk about the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice because it has not come to the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu of this type of vassim and lies do not increase confidence in our work; they bring down not only the reputation of one or two members of the Riigikogu but also the reputation of the entire Riigikogu. Neither does the fact that, although labour market issues fall within the competence of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, it was in any case intended to do so in its own committee. I can say that the Committee on Social Affairs was very offended that the Committee on Legal Affairs did not take into account our written proposal to focus on the possible social consequences of this draft and the analysis of the impact of the draft. The opinions of the contractors have not been taken into account at all, although the contractors are the hardest affected by this draft. The problem is not whether we leave six months instead of three months to complete the agreement. Trade unions have not said that only an extension of the notice period would be sufficient. The very common proposal of workers and trade unions was that a national conciliator should definitely be involved in the procedure for the termination of the collective agreement. This proposal was run over by a so-called roller coaster. However, it is the neutral institution that should decide to what extent the agreement will be terminated and under what final conditions. In Estonia, where the social partnership culture is not yet sufficiently high and the contractor is weaker, this additional condition would certainly be needed. We do not understand why it is at all the case that laws and regulations are trying to regulate what should actually be agreed on in the collective agreement itself. For example, it is known from Nordic labour law that, for more than a hundred years in the Scandinavian countries, the culture of social partnership is deeply rooted and employment relations are regulated there by collective agreements, not by laws and regulations. Then why do we do it differently? According to the principles and practice of the European Social Charter, the Member State must also create a very favourable climate for social dialogue and direct the parties to the conclusion of agreements rather than to their conclusion, as the draft authors want. If we look at the way Europe's developed countries are currently operating in this situation, we will see that there are two options: whether working conditions will be extended after the end of the agreement (in very many countries it will be for about a year) or whether this matter will be left to the collective agreement itself. There are countries, for example, where, if there is no agreement, the same working conditions will be transferred to individual workers' contracts. We see that the author of the draft has given priority to the interests of employers, which is a stronger party. In any case, this draft does not talk about the culture of social partnership; rather, it is the economic interests of the employer. Employment stability has not been the aim of this draft. The Centre Party Group considers that the draft reduces the possibility of dialogue between the social partners, narrows social guarantees for workers and goes against the principle of people's fairness. That is why the Centre Party Group will not support this draft and we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U117	Thank you very much, Marika Tuus-Laul. Please, colleague Valdo Randpere, the line!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U118	Since Marika Tuus-Laul named my name, I also take the right to make a small reply. I'm quoting a letter that Marika Tuus-Song probably hasn't bothered to read, otherwise she couldn't have talked like that. It's a letter from the Chancellor of Justice, which was the initiator of all this change. I quote only three lines from this letter: 'I would like to emphasise once again that the contested provision infringes the fundamental right of at least three employees, the employer and the party to the collective agreement. That is why I am hoping for the swiftest possible elimination of unconstitutionalism. " If it wasn't an impervious letter, I couldn't write a worse letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U119	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my colleague, Marko Pomerants, as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U120	Good afternoon. I have no written text, I try to choose my words well, and no previous speakers will be named by name. However, I would like to say that we have reached the third reading of this bill, and this debate has been taking place for a long time. For a longer time, this has taken place in recent months. In my opinion, there should no longer be any trade union leaders today who would not have gone to their employer to ask what is the plan in the case that employment relationships have been broken or there has not been a valid collective agreement and there has also been no negotiation of it. It is completely wrong to see what, unfortunately, came on TV on strike week as well, that the employer can at any time renounce the collective agreement if this law enters into force. It's not like that in any way. As far as the role of the national conciliator is concerned or not, the role of the national conciliator remains. If one of the parties to an employment relationship receives a letter from another that it does not wish to renew or withdraw the collective agreement, then there is always the right to propose the opening of negotiations on the collective agreement and this proposal must be responded. The result can be, for example, a new fixed-term collective agreement. I would certainly like the Estonian state to have money, for example, from the Social Fund, for which the trade unions could contribute to educating their membership in economic relations at all. I understand that people have received strike training, but it would be very good if there were training on what the pieces of the economy stands for. The better-educated social partners will certainly be able to achieve better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U121	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. As the representatives of all the political groups have spoken, I will conclude the negotiations and go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law amending the law on collective agreement initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs 153. Please vote! 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U122	We begin the third reading of the draft Act amending the Law of the State Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, Mr Stalnukhin, as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U123	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Estonian Centre Party cannot support the law amending the Law of the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice Act. And in the next few minutes, I'll try to explain to you why. Maybe I'll start in 2009, when a great story happened. Namely, a rather well-known member of the IRL, who dealt very much with child protection, was arrested for problems involving children at all. That same year it turned out that he had his own personal interest in the matter. He was arrested in April if memory didn't fool me, but the public only found out about it at the end of October or at the beginning of November, they don't even remember it. Anyway, it was after the two elections had passed. I didn't know how to explain how such a thing was even possible. Typically, paedophilia cases, when a person's guilt has been proven, have been quite widely reported in the media. But this time it was total silence! Now we learned last week that one of the influential members of the Riigikogu tried to exert influence on the Toila Vallavolikogu, and afterwards I can present a version of what happened in 2009. One could have called an equally powerful member of the IRL and announced that, since it is an IRL member and he is very concerned about the fate and fate of the party, it would be good if he could, well, not release the man from the charge, but at least keep the subject out of the press. Or otherwise, the prosecutor's office will be deprived of port money, this port construction money is, of course, brought only in parallel terms. Understood? Since this activity has been declared to be entirely in compliance with the law, it is not excluded that more and more such pressure will occur, and two institutions, the Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office, are definitely at risk. Because often the National Audit Office has to make critical assessments of what is happening in ministries and agencies, but the Chancellor of Justice has to assess quite often the constitutionality of one law or another. And how nice, if there's a way to call him, tell him of some party interest and something to threaten him with, I mean the material aspect of his activities. The more the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice have social security, the more reliable they can be, and certainly there are cases where pressure is being exerted on them. We think that the National Audit Office, being one of the few institutions of the state who criticises and, let us be honest, looks for weak points and also finds them, is worth it that it is brought from such blows to the maximum. We are trying to do the opposite now. The smaller the social security, the greater the chance that they will be subjected to any pressure. So our group cannot support this law in this matter immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U124	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us now go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of this draft as a law, please do a verification of the presence. Eighty-four MPs registered to be present, 17 missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act amending the Law of the State Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice Act 151. Please vote! 59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 20 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U125	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act. To give a presentation, I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Kõiv, from the Committee on the Environment, to give a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act was completed on 8 February 2012 and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 22 February. No amendments were received, but the Estonian Taxpayers' Association sent them on 20 February. a a letter to the Committee on the Environment containing the following proposal to supplement the Packaging Act. Text of the proposal: "The obligations set out in subsection 1 of this section in respect of the recycling targets of packaging waste from the packaging company that has transferred to the recycling organisation may be taken into account in addition to recovered packaging waste from the recycling organisation, only recovered packaging waste which has been collected independently by that packaging company from a site in its possession." Here are two main keywords: that you must be independently collected and, secondly, that you have a place of business in your possession. According to the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, there are at least two problems in practical life that their proposed change would solve. Firstly, the packaging company, which has transferred its responsibilities to the recycling organisation, has the right to continue collecting packaging independently. After all, it is natural that, for example, merchants collect sales and transport packages independently, this is the most rational working arrangement. It is also in no way appropriate to require the packaging company to collect packaging waste which it also owns by means of a recycling organisation. On the other hand, such a change in the law would solve the problem that some market participants would also understand the purchase of the relevant service from the waste manager by self-collecting the packaging company. This, in turn, creates the possibility to confuse the pricing of a strictly regulated recycling organisation with the obligation to use the revenue generated with that of a waste operator operating in competitive conditions on a free market. Waste operators are not legally obliged to have public prices, to treat customers equally, to invest profits in their activities, in particular the development of the system, including public information campaigns and such. Before the deadline for submitting amendments, a member of the Committee on the Environment, a good colleague of the Riigikogu, Annely Akkermann, sent a letter to the members of the committee, in which he expressed his support for this amendment. However, it was not drafted as if the amendment had to be drafted. The draft 155 was dealt with at the meeting of the Commission on 5 March, where the main issue was the possibility of supplementing the Packaging Act with a regulation allowing the packaging undertaking, which has transferred its obligations for the collection and recovery of packaging and waste resulting from Paragraph 16 (1) of the Packaging Act to the recycling organisation, to continue collecting packaging and packaging waste at the site in its own possession and to take account of its collected packaging and packaging waste when meeting the recycling targets. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, NGO Eesti Pakkergu, NGO Estonian Re-use Organisation, OÜ Producer Responsibility Organisation and NGO Estonian Waste Operators Association were invited to the discussion held in the Committee on the Environment. During the debate, a number of arguments were put forward and it can be confirmed that almost all participants agreed that the clarification of the law would make the conditions clearer and clearer. A representative of the Ministry of the Environment also agreed. However, the Ministry considered it necessary to consider further possible amendments to the implementing acts. The Waste Operators' Association wanted to discuss the matter further in its relevant committees and since, according to a representative of the Ministry of the Environment, a draft which plans to amend the same section of the Packaging Act will arrive at the Riigikogu within the next few months, the Environment Committee did not propose any improvements itself. As has been said, there were no other proposals formally to amend the draft. At the same time, I repeat that we attach great importance to clearer rules and fair competition, but also to the public and peaceful debate on changes. Thus, the Committee on the Environment proposed that those who participated in its meeting continue the relevant discussion with the representatives of the Ministry and, in reaching solutions, formalise their proposals in the draft submitted to the Riigikogu by May this year. Technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft 155, which in no case alter the substance of the draft. For example, as a linguistic amendment from § 1 (4) of the draft, which gives the concept of agricultural plastic, the sentence "except packaging" has been deleted because that part of the sentence is redundant, confusing. As according to subsection 1 (2) of the Packaging Act, all packages of goods placed on the market in Estonia and resulting packaging waste are covered by the Packaging Act, the Package Act also covers packaging and packaging waste for agricultural products and they no longer need to be mentioned separately in the definition of agricultural plastic. At its meeting on 5 March, the Committee on the Environment decided to make a proposal to the Riigikogu plenary to conclude the second reading of the draft 155 and, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U127	Thank you very much, Mr Kõiv. Now the questions. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Paragraph 1 (4) of the draft provides a definition of agricultural plastics and rightly it also contains a cover net and a plastic cord. Are the biodegradable covernet and the plastic cord that have recently been used also the subject of regulation of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U129	Thank you for your question. As a rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, who must shed light on the discussions, on the substantive work that took place in the Committee on the Environment, I must say that no one raised this issue and that was not the case. And according to the logic of the bill, we will not change this regulation, which currently applies to the material you have asked for, with this bill. It's what it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U130	Please, my colleague Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U131	My first attempt to propose an amendment remained, in a formal sense, weak, but it certainly does not interfere with further consideration of the content. We have a duty to recycle 60% of waste, but the current statistics show a difference between the different declarations. Did the Commission have the impression that there was insufficient regulation in this area? However, how do different parties declare the recovery of waste in different volumes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U132	Thank you for your question. This was one of the main concerns expressed by the representative of the Ministry of the Environment at the meeting of the Commission. Currently, data come together from different sources and their differences are greater than the normal small statistical error that may arise in the collection of data. Data differences are greater than would normally occur, so some kind of problem in the system that needs to be solved is making it clear that there are fewer differences, so that the figures overlap, so that we have no doubt that we will also meet these targets for recycling, as we have promised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U133	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U134	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honourable waitress! Can you unequivocally confirm that this bill will not increase the cost of a farmer handling agricultural plastics when he becomes a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U135	Once again, I must say that, at least before sending to second reading, this issue was not raised during the Commission's debate. As far as the price or what farmers have to pay is concerned, one thing is clear: they will be freed from the excise duty that they currently have to pay when this bill enters into force. How much of this becomes part of the price of the goods sold to them later, i.e. how much the price of the goods sold to them may rise, no one can predict or predict. That is more of a question of prophecy. And least of all, I can assure you here that some kind of price or less cost will remain the same for farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U136	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U137	Good President! Good Tõnis! Paragraph 23 (2) of the Packaging Act states that if the package to which the deposit has been lodged does not have a security deposit label or bar code or is not clearly visible and legible on the packaging or on the label or is physically damaged, the package is to be withdrawn in accordance with the procedure laid down in § 20 of this Act, but the deposit is not returned. Did you have a debate in the Commission on this matter: is it still right that if an entrepreneur, whether deliberately or out of his sloppyness, fails to put on the packaging a mark, but I, as the end user, have paid for it, will not be able to return the package and get paid for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U138	Thank you for your question. In the case of packages, the element bearing the security deposit is that the deposit is returned when the label is on the package. The sign is really money. It's a confirmation that you've paid for it, so you're gonna have to get that money back. If there is no such confirmation, there is no way to determine with any system whether this is the case or not. In fact, there is no definite possibility of resolving the question of refunding the money paid for a tare without a security deposit sign or bar code. In order for the consumer to know that his rights are protected, he could pay attention to this by buying goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U139	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U140	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. A representative of the good Commission. I come back to the same question that my colleague, Kalev Eagle, has put here. What are the additional costs for farmers to turn this bill into a law? Did you discuss this in the Commission before you sent it to first reading? The explanatory memorandum also states that there are no additional costs to the state budget, but it must be analysed what the impact on stakeholders is. Why don't you remind me, will farmers' costs increase when this bill becomes a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U141	I repeat: we had no reason to discuss this when sending it to second reading. However, in preparing for first reading in the Commission, this was still under discussion as to how the farmer's costs could change. One very clearly measurable factor, which you will find numerically there, is how much less excise duty is collected, because the obligation to pay farmers is therefore lower. After all, we also accepted this, and it was clear that there was no such thing as free. If the excise duty does not have to be paid, these expenses are not covered by the excise duty, then there is still some part of the cost of collecting the resulting waste. It will not go away and some of the value of these waste will not be covered. The film used in agriculture still has a positive residual value after use, which is not just ice, but ice with a positive monetary value. The answer that this ultimately means for the farmer would have meant an evaluation already, and that is not the way we went in the Commission. We were guided by the logic that the farmer would be excluded from the direct financial cost of excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U142	Please, Mr Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable speaker! I have two questions. The first question is, did you discuss the quantities? At present, packaging companies will have to pay 100%, for all packages with a barcode or a security deposit mark you mentioned on your head. As I recall, there is a statutory obligation to collect about 65% of the packaging. One question is: who's gonna get the 35% money? The second concerns the addition to § 23: if the package to which the deposit has been lodged changes the deposit mark, the packaging undertaking which sells packaged goods to the end user or to the consumer shall cease to sell the package with a valid mark 12 months after the introduction of the new mark. What was that 12 months? And does the price remain the same for the new and old signs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U144	One question at a time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U145	Thank you for your question. In a matter of minutes, you can ask a number of questions, as long as you can read them. But if you answer the first part of your question, of course, when discussing the changes we're going to make, we didn't even know exactly how one or the other percentage would come together. In the case of the pawn packaging, it was very important that we make the system even clearer and more understandable with this 24-month regulation, which concerns the volume restriction on the introduction into Estonia. We would still pay out only the money that has been paid into the Estonian recycling system. Here, the logic of the 24 months is perfectly there, the goal is that the packaging is not left in air for an indefinite period of time. And in order to avoid the question that maybe some will not be able to retrieve the package of goods they bought within 24 months, I assure you that according to practice, the packages will return to the system in most cases if my memory does not deceive me, within a few weeks of my purchase. The same bar codes make it very easy to take into account. So there's no problem with that. And how does the price on this deposit sign change? It doesn't make sense to assume that the price you put on it will remain in force forever. After all, that is why the numbers are replaced by letters for this mark. It is precisely because there is no need to constantly amend the law or other legislation by stating that now 50 have become 60 or two have emerged instead of one. Such changes need to be flexible and to accompany life in a simpler way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U146	Please, Mr Erki Arrow, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U147	Thank you. This set 24 months is very understandable and logical. After all, storage of packaging does not require heating in itself, and if you predict that the tax rates on packaging will rise, it is reasonable for you to keep it in a cold store somewhere. It's perfectly understandable. My question, however, concerns the 12 months that have been set again. Let's say the goods are sold under the D-mark or under the A- or B- or C-mark. But if the new mark comes out, will it be sold with the old mark 12 months old or at a new price? That was my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U148	At least on your first question, and probably also on this point, you referred to a paragraph, a good colleague, which reads 24 months. But it's clear that at the price on the deposit note, the buyer has bought it from the store, so he has to get it back. What he has paid cannot be changed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U149	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kõiv. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are no proposals to amend this bill. The second reading of bill 155 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U150	The next item is the first reading of the draft Defence Forces Service Act 172 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I invite the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U151	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The government will present you with a draft law on military service. The aim of the draft is to organise and update the existing regulation of the Defence Forces and to bring it into line with changes in society. If you ask why a new law is needed, the answer is that during the drafting of the bill it was established that it is reasonable to present a new full text of the Defence Service Act. The law that was adopted in 2000, which is currently in force, has survived its time and has been amended 57 times in these 12 years. The draft on your tables started already in 2009. Officials involved in the military service have been involved in this process. Several interested parties have also issued opinions during the drafting of the draft. The process took account of the reform of the public service, which has already taken place and is being prepared. The draft provides for a regulation on the emergence of a military duty, military service and replacement service, conditions of service during a period of peace and state of emergency, and guarantees of service. With a view to legal clarity, provisions on the discipline of the Defence Forces have also been included. The drafting of the draft also involved reviewing, updating and supplementing existing terms. In view of legal clarity, the order of the rules has been changed. In my small presentation, I will highlight the main changes to the regulation of the Defence Forces. The greatest innovation in the draft as compared to the current law concerns the obligation of the Defence Forces. The automatic obligation of defence remains valid for all Estonian male citizens. In view of Estonia's international obligations, the minimum age of the military obligation has been raised from 16 years to 17 years. The obligation of the Defence Forces lasts until the age of 60. Compared to the current law, no longer will the obligation of the Defence Forces be discharged before the age of 60. The new institution has the option of taking on the duty of the Defence Forces of its own accord. This is primarily about women, but also about those men who were released from military duty under the current Defence Forces Act. For example, a member of the relief service was relieved of his military duty, but he will remain for military service until he arrives at the border age. According to the draft, women can also take on military duties, and women aged 18 to 26 have been given the opportunity to receive military training through military service. As a second substantive amendment, the draft provides for different health requirements for conscripts, reservists and active troops. This approach takes into account the differences in recruitment and allows for more effective service, taking into account the different possibilities for participation in military activities. The draft emphasises that the assessment of the health of an active officer must take into account, in particular, its suitability for the post and its capacity to perform the duties assigned to the post. This amendment creates the possibility to serve persons with different medical conditions, including persons with disabilities. The third major change concerns active employment. The appointment of a person on the basis of an active service contract, which is the main practice so far, shall be replaced by the appointment of another civil service. The current contractual regulation has not justified itself and does not have the characteristics of the contract. The person's duties and other working conditions are laid down for appointment. The first entry into service is for a fixed period and, in the case of ten years of continuous service, the service becomes permanent. Each post shall have the requirements of education, training, health and physical capacity and shall be subject to an assessment of compliance with the requirements of the peacetime position. The condition for taking up active service is the existence of a duty of defence, including female active troops. This will ensure that all deputies from the Defence Forces can be involved in the reserve service. The current law did not allow this. As a fourth group of changes, I would like to mention the pay order of the Defence Forces. The government has set as one of its objectives the transparency of public sector wage arrangements and this principle is reflected in the draft. The remuneration of a member of the Defence Forces will be fairer as the function, responsibility, experience and performance of the active employee will be taken into account. The CEO's salary will in the future consist of two components: a basic salary and a variable salary. The award has been waived as a non-employment bonus and differentiation. Thus, the main change compared to the current wage regime is the change in the wage components. A regulation similar to that contained in the bill will be included in the public service law that will soon come before you. The size of the salary does not in itself concern this bill. These issues depend on the budgetary possibilities and, according to the law, the decisions of the grade system are delegated to the Government and the Minister of Defence. Now for the social guarantees of the Defence Forces. With regard to them, the draft does not change the existing situation. The Defence Forces must have confidence that if something happens to them in their service assignment, the State will provide them with appropriate and complete treatment and support. The draft provides for social counselling, rehabilitation services, prostheses, orthopaedics and other facilities for persons who have suffered severe damage to their health due to the performance of their service tasks, as well as care in the institution where necessary. In addition, social counselling, psychological assistance and rehabilitation for members of the members of the members of the members of the members of the armed forces who have suffered or died during an international military operation. The development of new principles for health requirements has also created better opportunities for the continuation of a injured military officer in the Defence Forces. The draft ensures that members of the Defence Forces are entitled to a special pension. The pension of the previous years is called an active pension. In view of the changes in the payment of wages, the concepts of calculating the amount of pension have been changed, but it is still based on the remuneration earned by the active armyman. Persons in active employment, including the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Chief of General Staff, are entitled to active pension. The pensions included in the Defence Forces Service Act are to be regarded as part of the motivational system of the Defence Forces and the publication of state recognition. In conclusion, I would like to confirm that the draft before you has been developed in active cooperation with the Defence Forces. We believe that it meets the needs and expectations of the Defence Forces on the one hand, but also takes into account the changes that have taken place in society and in the judicial area and will take place in the future. That is why we are proposing to approve the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U152	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Let's start with colleague Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U153	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. How does the Defence Service Act regulate the state's relationship with people with grey passports?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U154	Citizenship is a prerequisite for the obligation of the Defence Forces. Persons who do not have the nationality of any State shall not be obliged to serve in the armed forces. They do not have to go to military service, and they will not be able to join the active service later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U155	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The draft law on military service increases the chances of serving in the Defence Forces. I'm interested in women's chances, they can now volunteer to join the Defence Forces. What expectations do you have in this regard? And what could be the interest of women in volunteering for military service and military careers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U157	Thank you for your question. I don't have any in-depth social research data with me. But it was clear in the drafting that this was certainly a major change in society that would respond. We believe that this meets to a certain extent the expectations of society. It certainly creates great opportunities for those who prioritise the philosophy of equality. But we believe that the military service itself has become so diverse that creating the possibility of female persons entering the service of military service means going along with changes in society. The Defence Forces are no longer a cannon with sweaty, tired, uneaten boys running in front and behind, if you want, but on the contrary, the Defence Forces have become very versatile. And that's why the gender restriction has been artificial. I think that this is an important step forward in terms of social cohesion. Of course, we can also debate the introduction of compulsory military service for women, but I believe that this would be too radical a step now. But we very much hope that this step will certainly motivate young men to enter the armed forces even more. Although, yes, this motivation is high enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U158	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U159	Thank you very much. Minister Parts, you indicated that stakeholders were met during the drafting process. I am asking: which stakeholders were consulted and were all the recommendations included in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U160	Most importantly, it is worth pointing out that the Estonian Assembly of Political Officers presented a number of alternative approaches to basic military service. I dare say that, to a certain extent, the main ideologies for drafting the draft, who are mostly active defence forces and experts, officials and politicians, have different views. According to the opinion of the assembly of retired officers, a highly respected assembly, the central approach could be that the Defence Forces Service Act must show more the special nature of the military service, not only its material and legal aspects, but also its patriotic, patriotic relationship and will. However, the working group that drew up the draft was indeed focused on defining matters of practical legal significance for the draft. It's like a difference. As regards the views of the assembly of retired officers, I believe that, in principle, they do not differ at all from those of the working group, but the question is whether we can regulate the will to protect by law, make this volume stronger, if that is what you can say on mother tongue day. I don't think it's gonna work. In this sense, this bill remains a normal bill. It is a relatively dry legal text from which the will to defend, patriotism and patriotism may not appear. Of course, I have no doubt that there are still individual details on which the Riigikogu can discuss. But there has already been the most serious discussion. The Defence League and various ministries have also said their positions, and there are no very serious differences of opinion. I believe the National Defence Commission is still discussing the draft with the board of retired officers. Certainly, the initiator of the draft has not had any desire in any way to show that the views they have are unworthy of attention. There are no differences of opinion in the principle, rather the question is what is the subject of the draft and what is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U161	Please, Mr Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U162	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I read Article 77 of the bill, which talks about the release of persons in reserve from the invitation to attend a study assembly. There is a possibility that the chief of defence may exempt farmers from the study gathering, with the exception of two exceptions. One exception is those involved in the production of fishery products, and the other exception is those involved in the production of cotton. As Minister for Economic Affairs, can you tell me how many cotton companies in Estonia must leave their field feed and go under the gun?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U163	Thank you for this sharp and very delicious question. I would leave this provision between the first and second reading of the impact analysis. I cannot answer now how many of our fruit producers will have a follow-up to be served in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U164	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U165	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You were talking about the military service being special. Yeah, that's exactly the way it is, it's very different and different. One of the very special types of military service, not in principle, but in organisational terms, has been active service in the Defence League. How do you think this bill will affect the active service in the Defence League? Maybe it's getting clearer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U166	I'm absolutely sure it's getting clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U167	Please, Mr Mikko, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U168	Thank you. My question concerns international operations and related guarantees. We have injured more than a hundred people on international missions during the period of independence. It is widely known that missions are carried out to earn money. Of course, it is clear that missions may lead to the loss of life, but rather, the armed forces realize that they may be injured. And now my question is: what social guarantees have been added to them compared to the current law and do you think there are enough guarantees?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U169	In the big picture, they still remain the same. This concerns the basic treatment of the injured military officer, rehabilitation, possible other work if he continues in the armed forces, not to mention the dwelling and support while he is in treatment. These guarantees are an entire complex and I believe that there is no radical change in this regard. But you will always be able to come up with proposals that you should definitely consider. Surely everyone is convinced that if someone has been injured in the service of the country, especially on an international mission, the state must do everything in its power to enable the person to continue his life as far as possible in the event of his injury. We see that we are spending relatively large sums of money to ensure this. But if there are suggestions, we are always prepared to consider them. Maybe there's something I've missed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U170	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I now call on Mrs Mati Raidma, Chairman of the Committee on National Defence. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U171	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft Defence Forces Service Act 172 before submitting it to the first reading at three sessions: 14 February, 21 February and 5 March. On 14 February, the Minister of Defence Mart Laar and other employees of the Ministry of Defence, as well as representatives of the Defence Forces, took part in the meeting. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces took part in the meeting on 21 February. The draft provides, as has already been mentioned, for the subjects of the armed forces, the military service and the replacement service, for their legal status, for the organisation of the execution of the defence force and for incentives for the defence forces, for grounds of disciplinary liability, disciplinary penalties and disciplinary procedures. As defence service is known to be one of the special types of public service, it should be noted that the Riigikogu is also dealing with the draft law on public service 193, which harmonises the principles of public service throughout the administration of the state. It is therefore also necessary to monitor how the draft law on public service is being dealt with in the course of the procedure under discussion. However, we have the issues of the Defence League that were asked above in the draft Defence Union Act, which will also be examined in sync with this draft. At its meeting on 5 March, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included on the agenda of the eighth working week of the Riigikogu for the first reading of 172 by Wednesday, 14 March, or today. A speaker was appointed on behalf of the Commission. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the first reading of the draft law and, on the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set 20 working days, i.e. the deadline for submitting amendments. 12 April at 6 p.m. A longer deadline than usual for submitting amendments is due to the fact that the draft law on the Defence Forces Service Act and the draft law on the implementation of this law are large-scale material which requires serious work and analysis. For example, the law's explanatory statement is about 300 pages thick. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U172	Thank you. Dear colleague Mati Raidma, could you repeat when the deadline for tabling amendments is 11 or 12 April?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U173	As I mentioned, April 12th.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U174	Thank you. And now let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Kalev Lillo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U175	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'd like to come back to that cotton question. I've had the cross-breeds of Estonia driven through, and I've never seen any cotton fields floating anywhere. Where is such a legislator's will to write an exception to the law that cotton farmers will still be engaged in active service?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U176	Indeed, the Commission was also surprised by the specific requirement of the legislator to invite cotton farmers to study gatherings. We were told that there was some European Union document behind it. I suggest there may be a typographical error. But the Commission has decided to work very thoroughly on this draft, we are going to examine the text by chapter. Other facts that raise eyebrows have been found in the bill. The Commission is working hard and, hopefully, at second reading, we will come to you either with sound reasoning or with a different wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U177	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U178	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have such a request that you explain a little about the age limit for military service, especially the upper one. Experts have been asked for an opinion on this and it has been found that it could be raised to the age of 30. What is your position and was the Commission discussing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U179	The Commission also wants to discuss this issue in depth. Our view was that there are a number of issues, but this is an extremely necessary draft and we will do the first reading. After that, as true legislators, we will begin to correct the law and perhaps also to obtain assurances of some of the facts that are written here. We do not foresee the urgent processing and adoption of the draft. As far as this age is concerned, there are different opinions. A slight surprise, the age of men and women is in some kind of shift. We'll discuss it. There was already a small debate in the Commission over this 30-year period. There are different opinions. I am currently representing the position of the Commission sitting. So let's just say that the final decision, whether or not to confirm the age in the draft, is not yet there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U180	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U181	Thank you, good manager. Good Mati! Can you tell me why the Defence Service Act deals with the substitute service?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U182	Yes, I can. I suggest, by the way, that everyone who tries to understand this very complex text should look at page 16 and page 22 of the draft explanatory memorandum, which simply and figuratively outlines a new 'definition engine'. Very many concepts have gained new content and have developed new concepts. When we are talking about the substitute service, this is one type of engagement of the armed forces, including the type of active performance of the obligation. It is an obligation of the armed forces, and therefore it is stated in this law and has not taken this route to draw up a separate law to regulate the substitute service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U183	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U184	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Perhaps you can name the most important changes concerning the active service in the Defence League? Are there significant changes to the new law or are there no changes? Did the Commission discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U185	The Commission has not yet discussed this issue, but we will certainly do so. As I mentioned, we will discuss the draft by chapter. But as for those active troops who serve in the Defence League, for them, the innovations are the same as in the Defence Forces. For example, the Minister was already talking about a new salary arrangement. With this bill, the ranks will disappear, which, as we know, has existed for a very long time. And there are many, many other changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U186	Please, my colleague Andrus Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U187	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Would you mention the reasons why the service has been transitioned from indefinite to fixed - term service?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U188	Again, I apologise for not having a specific and detailed explanation. Our committee has just looked at this draft as a whole at the meetings so far, and we have decided that we are going to the first reading with it, and when the first reading is over, we will go into the details. As I mentioned, there are extremely many details, 300 pages of the explanatory memorandum being quite a challenge not only for members of the National Defence Committee, but probably also for experts who have written different parts of the explanatory memorandum. It'll take time. But surely your remark has been remembered and we ask the initiators to justify this regulation in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U189	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, as representative of the Group of the Ülo Tulik Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U190	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to highlight once again the importance of this draft and to invite a fellow to think, because this law really makes quite a lot of changes in the activities of the Defence Forces. Minister Parts has already talked about the need for the draft and highlighted the main changes, and as a member of the National Defence Committee, I would like to add that the Assembly of Reserve Officers has indeed been the most active in drafting this law. They have received the most amendments and will be discussed by the Commission next week. I would also like to say that with this law we can solve the very serious problem of farmers. It came up especially acutely this spring, many farmers were concerned that their successor, the master's son, was invited to reserve training. Since farms have, as we know, also assumed production obligations when applying for aid, there was a risk that some farms might go under a hammer pretty quickly. Several farmers have claimed that this would happen if the future owner of the farm or the successor of the master went into service. As a result, many of the peasants' sons gave up their reserve service and simply paid the fine. This bill regulates this problem very well, and I'm here on the remote to invite you to come back. We make this bill a law that satisfies both our defence forces and most of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U191	Thank you very much, Mr Tulik. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 172 amendments on 12 April at 6 p.m. First reading of Bill 172 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U192	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 173 on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, please report to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U193	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This bill is part of the previous bill. It is now common practice for more extensive laws to be implemented by a separate law. The implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act takes place by two separate laws. One is what you are currently dealing with, the other comes in a while. They concern amendments to the law which require a constitutional majority to be decided by the Riigikogu. The draft provides for amendments to more than 23 laws and also provides that the Defence Forces Service Act will enter into force on 1 January 2013 of course, if the Riigikogu is able to discuss it sufficiently in advance and reach a decision. According to the draft law implementing the Defence Forces Service Act, the basic principle of implementation is established and it simply reads: decisions made under the current law will remain valid even when the new law enters into force. When the law enters into force, members of the Defence Forces will also continue to serve. Persons who have received an invitation to take up the service must continue to appear in the service at the time indicated in the invitation and no new invitations shall be sent. The conscripts and the reservists will continue to serve until the end of the term assigned to them by the law in force. The contracts for the current operational service of the active troops who continue in active service shall be considered terminated and the person shall be automatically engaged in active service. A person who previously had a fixed-term contract shall continue to serve for a fixed-term period, and a person who has an indefinite contract in service shall continue to serve for an indefinite period. However, persons who do not wish to continue their service upon the entry into force of the new law will be given 30 days to notify their wish to leave the service. Since the new law provides for active service only in the presence of an obligation of the armed forces, persons who do not have the responsibility of the armed forces must, within 30 days, give their consent to be registered for the purpose of the defence forces. If consent is not given, the person shall be released from active service. Although the new Defence Service Act amends the current wage regulation, this bill as a law will ensure that the salary paid under the Act in force until now will continue to be paid. As regards the amendment of other laws resulting from the amendment of the Defence Forces Service Act, the amendments to 23 of them are of a technical nature and relate in particular to the change of concepts. The Defence Forces Organisation Act is complemented by a chapter on the provision of health services. This is an area regulated so far by the Defence Forces Service Act. However, since the activities of the Defence Forces as a health care provider are not related to service matters, it was decided to transfer these provisions to the Defence Forces Act on the Rights of Functions of a Governmental Institution. The Government proposes to approve this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U194	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would now like to ask Mrs Mati Raidma, Chair of the National Defence Committee, to present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was also discussed by the National Defence Commission at its three meetings before the first reading: 14 February, 21 February and 5 March this year. The purpose of the draft is to create the conditions and procedures for the implementation of the new Defence Service Act. In addition to the way in which the transition from the existing regulation to the new one will take place, Bill 173 also provides for amendments to other laws which are in contact with the Defence Service Act in force to date or the need to amend which is due to the adoption of the new Defence Service Act. At its meeting on 5 March, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include this bill for the first reading on the Riigikogu agenda on 14 March and to appoint a speaker here as a rapporteur for the National Defence Committee. The committee also decided by consensus to propose to terminate the first reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, to ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set 20 working days, i.e. the deadline for submitting amendments. 12 April at 6 p.m. The longer deadline is again due to the large volume of the draft, but also to the desire to involve and negotiate with different stakeholders during the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U196	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. No questions for the waitress. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 173 amendments on 12 April at 6 p.m. The first reading of Bill 173 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U197	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the laws adopted by a majority of the Riigikogu relating to the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U198	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government will present to you a draft related to the Second Defence Forces Service Act and related to its implementation, the title of which reads "A draft law amending the laws adopted by a majority of the Riigikogu, which is related to the Defence Forces Service Act." The draft provides for amendments to the new Defence Service Act. The amendments are made to eight laws, the amendment of which, according to the Constitution, requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Most changes are made in terms of changes in terms. Major changes will be made to the Peace Time National Defence Act and the War Time National Defence Act. The amendments to these laws are in turn based on the transposition of the provisions of the current Defence Service Act. The provisions to be transposed do not concern the day-to-day military service; these are activities that only apply in emergency situations, such as the application of a departure ban to increase the level of military preparedness. Therefore, in view of legal clarity and expediency, it was unreasonable to regulate all this further in different laws. The rules to be transposed into the Peace Time National Defence Act relate in particular to the preparation of mobilization and the actions of the Defence Forces in case of increased preparedness, unless the declaration of mobilisation is yet to be made. The amendments to the Wartime National Defence Act concern the military service following the declaration of martial law and mobilization. During the war, all persons engaged in armed activities in the armed forces shall be considered active troops. During the war, it is also possible to include non-defensive personnel, and it is important that the person meets the requirements of the active military at the time of the war. The date of entry into force of the draft is set at 1 January 2013 as is the case for pre-trial drafts. I propose that this bill be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U199	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I would now like to ask once again for a presentation by Mrs Mati Raidma, Chairman of the Chair of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U200	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was also discussed by the National Defence Committee at its three meetings on 14 February, 21 February and 5 March. This bill is also linked to the implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act. The purpose of the draft is to bring the European Parliament Election Act, the Citizenship Act, the Local Government Council Election Act, the Peace Time National Defence Act, the Riigikogu Election Act, the War Age National Defence Act and the Presidential Election Act into line with the new Defence Forces Service Act. The latest draft 172 passed the first reading today. The above-mentioned laws are mainly subject to terminological changes. To illustrate, I would like to highlight from the draft the text of § 215 of the Peace Age National Defence Act, which states that during the mobilisation period, all members of the Riigikogu will perform the duty of national defence in addition to the representatives of other dignified agencies. At its meeting on 5 March, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that it be included on the agenda of today's session on 14 March for the first reading of the draft law and to appoint a speaker as rapporteur. In addition, we decided by consensus to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and, on the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, ask the President of the Riigikogu to set 20 working days, i.e. 12 April, at 18. A longer period than usual is due to the fact that the three drafts, which are moving together, are very large and take time to work hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-03-14_U201	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. There are no questions. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline of 12 April at 6 p.m. for the submission of 174 draft amendments. The first reading of Bill 174 is complete. Our agenda is exhausted and the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 15.46 p.m.
