ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the fifth Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. I ask for a speech chair from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Waste Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U3	Thank you. Please, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party and the IRL Group will initiate a draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. To put it simply, this bill means raising child benefits on an ad hoc basis and in families with three or more children. In short, the draft aims to increase benefits for families with children living below the relative poverty line in two stages: mid-2013 and early 2015. Support for families with three or more children is planned to be increased universally from €57 to €95.9 from 2015 onwards. The lump-sum birth allowance for triple births, as well as for the higher number of multiple births, should increase to EUR 1000 per child, i.e. EUR 3000 for triple births, etc. A special provision is introduced for 16-year-old and older comprehensive school graduates, according to which family allowances are also paid for the summer months, July and August. An important point is that additional benefits are not included in income for the payment of income support. As a last principle, I will mark that all existing child benefits will remain in force, no reduction of any allowance will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U5	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. 11 Members of the Social Democratic Party Group wish to report an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The question raised in Question Time on access to tools for people with special needs has led to a large number of calls from individuals, families and disabled people's organisations. We appeal to the Minister for Social Affairs on seven questions to find out how it is planned to resolve a situation where, as from July, the state's allocated money has ended for people who are entitled to benefits for the acquisition of aid instruments, both diapers and many other aid instruments. We will ask these questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and await answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U7	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U8	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws. As of July this year, 444383 citizens had been registered in the criminal record in Estonia. These statistics refer to a clear overcriminalisation of social relations or overexploitation of social relations, as well as to the fact that the way of simplification, haste and agreement has taken place in order to determine what is called a procedure. In the debate on a crucially important national issue, one of which was clearly overcriminalising society, Leon Glikman stated that there are too many cases where decent people are caught between the teeth of the law, and the biggest problem is pre-trial inquisitional procedure. This has also been pointed out by the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Leas v. Estonia, or Leas Estonia, who has found that the guarantee of a fair trial is primarily an opportunity to prepare for protection and to have equal knowledge and opportunities with the accuser, the prerequisite of which is to examine the files, so that it is possible to question the evidence of the opposite party and to obtain information on the evidence justifying it. That is why we have brought here the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws, which aims to bring the Code of Criminal Procedure and the related laws into line with the requirements of international law and the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu's board of directors. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Wednesday, s. On 17 October, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questions of the members of the Riigikogu to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir and the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 83 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, there is no 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U10	The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Order of Defence Forces Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Secretary of Defense Urmas Reinsalu of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! The Government of the Republic has submitted to Parliament a draft law amending the Order of Defence Forces Act, which has four key elements. First of all, the defence forces are being added to the task of protecting persons. Secondly, the law provides for the possibility of involving defence forces in the performance of police duties without the right to exercise direct force. Thirdly, a new structural unit will be created for the exchange of the Commander of the Defence Forces, the Estonian contingent of the NATO Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation. Fourthly, there is a change that was made in the Committee on National Defence in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence in advance of reading: a new structural unit will be created for the exchange of the Commander of the Defence Forces, a special operations unit of the Defence Forces. In addition to these amendments, the draft introduces two technical amendments due to the adoption of the new Civil Service Act and the organisation of the related concepts. Speaking of giving the Defence Forces the task of protecting persons, it has to be said that in Estonia, at present, only the police are responsible for protecting persons, who must ensure that the police and persons mentioned in the Border Guard Act are protected. But in reality, the protection of persons is also guaranteed by the military police, who have repeatedly participated in ensuring the security of foreign guests arriving in Estonia, mainly the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. It therefore makes sense, in the interests of clarity of regulation, to entrust this task to the military police and to determine the circle of persons to be protected by the military police. I would stress that the military police have the capability to protect persons in accordance with NATO's general standards for the protection of persons placed with the military police. Secondly, the law provides for the possibility of involving defence forces in the performance of police duties without the right to exercise direct force. At present it is only possible to use the Defence Forces to assist the police in the cases mentioned in the Emergency Act and the Emergency Act. These are situations where it is necessary for the use of the Defence Forces to be decided by the Government of the Republic with the consent of the President of the Republic. There are cases where the police would need support from the Defence Forces, but the defence forces would not need to be granted the right to use force. For example, the Defence Forces may have the technology and the personnel they have learned to use it, which the police would need to carry out a specific task. It would not be reasonable for techniques to be acquired separately by two public authorities. The need to involve defence forces in police tasks may also arise in other areas, such as search. The arrangements for providing assistance are laid down in a government regulation and the condition is that the police themselves must not have the means to carry out the task. As I emphasised, the defence forces do not have the right to exercise direct force. As a third change, the Estonian contingent of the NATO Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation will be brought into the immediate command of the Commander of the Defence Forces as a separate structural unit. Its aim is to make the Estonian contingent more logical in the structure of the Defence Forces. Putting the Estonian contingent under the direct command of the Commander of the Defence Forces would be a sensible step, given the status of the Centre as an international military headquarters and the political visibility involved. The fourth amendment envisages the creation of a new structural unit for the exchange of the Commander of the Defence Forces, a special operation unit for the Defence Forces. It shall be established as a separate structural unit of the Defence Forces under the immediate authority of the Commander of the Defence Forces. Currently, the Special Operations Group is part of the Reconnaissance Battalion, but the activities and tasks of the Special Operations Group differ greatly from those of the Reconnaissance Battalion, such as small unit tactics, military support, direct attack. Therefore, there is a difference between the command and the service rhythm of the Special Operations Group and the Reconnaissance Battalion, so that one of you could be seriously disturbed in the future. The creation of a separate structural unit also helps to emphasise in Estonia as well as in the eyes of its partners that Estonia considers it necessary to have this ability and to develop it. We have also provided for the development of special operations capabilities in the military defence development plan and action plans. The definition of a specific operation is based on NATO's definition of a specific operation. This direct submission to the Commander of the Defence Forces has also been suggested to us by our partners. It can be said that in other Baltic States and Scandinavia, a special operations unit is an independent structural unit; it is not a member of another unit. In a number of countries, there are even different types of troops. It is certainly important for the development of special operations capabilities that, in December, a special operation group of 15 members is scheduled to be deployed in Afghanistan in the framework of the ISAF operation, which is responsible for the training of Afghan security forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U12	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I think it is absolutely right that, in certain cases, the police should also have the right to include defence forces in the performance of their duties. Although, as far as I know, many police and defence leaders have opposed this in the past, claiming that the functions and tasks of these structures are fundamentally different. But I ask you this: in the light of this bill and the future law, is it quite precisely regulated when might the defence forces be involved? Can't it be that if the police, for example, just lack human resources, the defense forces will be involved in some kind of police operation, even for my sake in the morning 'Everybody blows' action or whatever?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U14	Thank you. With regard to the more precise arrangements for inclusion, the law gives a list of cases in which inclusion is permitted, with a reference to the performance of the tasks set out in the Police and Border Guard Act. The detailed arrangements will be laid down in a government regulation. I would like to say that the point of this cooperation is rational use of resources. It makes sense to strive for security and security so that we can use our resources more wisely. An example of life is that military tug machines are used to haul out trench trucks. The long legal discussion involved how the armed transporters of the Defence Forces could be used for the transport of euro, so that the transporters would be led by defence commanders. It was found that this could not be done under the legal order at the time. This, too, is one area that we would like to regulate. Once again, I would stress that these would be exceptional situations. The condition is that the police's own resources must be exhausted. Secondly, this is not about the use of coercion. The Defence Forces must, of course, also have the opportunity and the ability to provide this assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U15	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U16	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I, too, recognise the principle that it is reasonable to use resources rationally. If the state needs to do so, the defence forces will have exactly the same resources as any other. I see one small problem, or rather I would like to ask you, have you thought through the fact that if the defence forces are involved in controlling street riots, they are under a rockstorm, but they do not have the right to use force, how should the defence forces react if they perform the task of a state that requires the use of force? After all, this is a direct threat to the life of a military officer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U17	Thank you. If, for example, we look at bronze nights and other such situations, the defence forces will be used to resolve this situation at the discretion of the government and with the agreement of the President. As far as the use of the Defence Forces in public order is concerned, it can only take place in a supporting function, not in the form of 'immediate threat' and coercion. As regards the rights of the Defence Forces in the current order of the Defence Forces, the right to self-defence is self-evident. The Defence Forces also have the right to use force by guarding the Defence Forces within the perimeter of their territory. Self-defence and the protection of your territory, your property, are the rights that the Defence Forces may exercise. They can be realised by the Defence Forces in providing such assistance. There will be no additional rights compared to other officials or civilians.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U18	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary of Defense! I'm asking you about the definition of special operations. You said this was NATO's definition, but if we read this definition, we'll see that it's empty. It says here that a special operation is part of a defence force's activity, which takes place in a different way than that of other units, using other tactics and other methods. That's the whole definition. Could you give us a little more details on what these special operations really are? If you can't, then you have to say you can't explain it. But then maybe it would make sense to take this point out of the bill at all, because there is no point in writing an empty definition into the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U20	Thank you. There was also a debate in the National Defence Committee on how to define a special operation. If we look at the wording of the draft, I agree that it is possible to accommodate a wide range of activities under this definition. But the core of the word'special surgery' is not just that'special' makes it more important or subtle, but the essence of the concept is actually a speciality. This means that special operations are activities carried out by a unit set up for this purpose, using different tactics and different methods from other units. Different tactics and methods are the content. What is the objective of specific operations in achieving military objectives? In general, special operations are used to achieve military objectives because units have been set up to carry out them, who have been trained to use techniques and practices other than conventional warfare that are generally not used by conventional forces. Special operations can be divided into two operations on a broader scale. First, there are support operations, such as military support and training of local units (this will also be done by the Estonian Special Operations Group in the context of the ISAF mission). Secondly, when we're talking about military action, we're dealing with targeted combat operations. Entities conducting special operations are usually small, mobile and autonomous and generally do not require external support for operations. They are able to operate in any environment, and because of their training and equipment, they are able to use combat methods that are not available to regular forces. So this special means, let's say, professionalism. We analysed how special operations are defined in other countries. We have based our definition on NATO's definition of NATO's concept of special operations. The definitions of special units in other countries are also similar to those of NATO in the main components. The main tasks of the United States' green berets are non-conventional warfare, special intelligence, military support, targeted attack operations and counter-terrorism operations, with non-conventional operations being highlighted as the most important, as we have pointed out in the definition. The Norwegian Special Forces, which are considered to be the best in Northern Europe, are also directly under the command of the Commander-in-Chief, with the same main tasks: Special Intelligence, targeted attacks, military support, combat support, rescue operations. So this list of activities is similar in countries, it is always an illustrative and open list. However, in the light of military objectives, it is very difficult to define briefly and with a closed definition what military support means. This could mean training security forces, but also direct combat operations to support someone. This is why, given that the Estonian Defence Forces Special Unit is part of the NATO Special Forces and follows the concept of NATO Special Forces, we have based on the same definition of NATO Special Operations Concept. Of course, the specific tasks and activities of the Special Operations Unit will be defined in the Basic Regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U21	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The use of the Defence Forces to solve a civilian task and closer cooperation are understandable and welcome. However, if the use of the Defence Forces in civil matters involves the violation of fundamental rights and freedoms of people, it should be strictly regulated by law, because, according to our constitution, the restriction of rights and freedoms can only take place on the basis of the law. I would like to draw your attention to this and also to ask whether it is sufficiently thought-out if the use of the Defence Forces is accompanied by significant interference with rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U23	Thank you. While we are talking about a supporting function in the sense of this law, above all a logistical and assistive function, the draft does not provide for a possible violation of fundamental rights by third parties, whether legal or by practice. Would this require any additional fixing or regulation at the level of the law? I think this is appropriate, and I am sure that this draft will be discussed in the Committee on National Defence. We have based on examples of this type, such as when a plane crashes and starts looking for people, or when they're looking for a missing mushroom. It's all about helping the police and rescue services. But surely in order to rule out ambiguities or possible miscalculations, it is important to analyse it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U24	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm afraid you don't like my question, but I still want to ask. Doesn't the government trust the police and the border guard that he's calling for backup? I understand that there was no problem for 20 years, and the former governments did not allow themselves to take such steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U26	Thank you. I'm sure the government trusts the police, including the border guards and the militia. The capacity of all these organisations has increased in these 20 years; there is no doubt about that. It's about using resources. It is clear that defence forces, due to the nature of military protection, acquire techniques and special equipment that can also be used in civil circumstances to protect the safety of people, save lives or ensure public security. Therefore, it is rational or practical to also use, in civil circumstances, those technical opportunities whose real strategic purpose and main task is undoubtedly the military defence of the State. This certainly does not show that we have any problem with police or border guards. These are expensive equipment, Estonia is a small country, and I am sure that in many larger countries it is optimal to use them exactly as we plan. By the way, cooperation between the police, the Defence Forces and the Defence Union has been established through a wide range of cooperation agreements at different levels. It is established at county and unit level, with more than 30 contracts signed. Certainly, if amendments to national defence laws are being prepared, I consider it appropriate to further regulate this cooperation, so that we rely on the fact that there is one safety room and one security room to which the state is contributing. In view of the different nature and types of tasks involved, it is appropriate to regulate them differently legally, but this does not mean that they should be absolutely isolated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U27	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, My question concerns the Estonian contingent of the NATO Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation. The question is about young people: how much can this structural unit become or have already become a career choice for young people studying in information technology?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U29	The Cyber Defence Cooperation Centre employs six researchers in particular. But I think it can be said without exaggeration that in cyber defence, Estonia is a country with a very good reputation. We are considered to be one of the owners of know-how and a spokesperson for rhetoric in this area among our allies in the European Union, NATO and other organisations. I therefore think that this area is increasingly being identified as a separate capacity in the NATO Action Plans and also under the auspices of the European Union's security and defence policy. Rather, the question is whether it makes sense for young people to specialize in this subject. I think that in the future, this area will offer broad opportunities for action. Certainly young people who learn in the IT field will also have the opportunity to join and contribute to the Union for Cyber Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U30	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand from your answer that the police do not currently have up-to-date technical equipment. Is that it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U32	Thank you. It is clear that resources are a limited phenomenon. In a specific case, such as a lifesaving operation, there may be a situation where the police may not have any capabilities, but this technical equipment is available in the armed forces. It would be irrational and shielding not to lay down in law how this equipment could be used without stretching. I recall that when the Polish plane crashed on Lake Ülemiste, the defence force pulled the crane off the ice in time with a very strong lifting force, and the oil leak did not occur. These are examples of this type. The Defence Forces have, as I said earlier, many specialized techniques designed to protect and contribute to the country's military defence. But it is clear that in some situations, this specialized technique can also be used to ensure the safety of people and save lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U33	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, When I listened to my colleagues' questions, I too had a question. On the basis of this bill, we can use the support of the Defence Forces in law enforcement as well as during civil disasters or emergencies. Is this a situation unique to Estonia, or is it still a common practice in Europe, NATO and the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U35	Thank you. It is certainly common practice to try to make optimal use of resources. One issue, of course, is transnational cooperation, seeking solutions for so-called smart defence to optimise national defence costs, in a situation where there is a very strong pressure on national defence budgets in several countries. The second issue is how to make more efficient use of the instruments that go to the wider security and security agenda, and combine them. I think the alternative would be to reduce people's security or safety, or to say that these things cannot be used. Another option is to buy in parallel with the addition of techniques and equipment, all of which would come again at the expense of the taxpayer. The third option is to use military technology with precise and clear procedures in civil situations. I think it's a smart way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U36	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U37	Honourable President! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act 256 before submitting it to the first reading in three sessions: s. a on 17 September, 8 October and 15 October. At the meeting of 17 September, the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Head of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence Riho Rõngulep and Deputy Head of the Legal Department Ingrid Muul participated as representatives of the initiator of the draft. At the meeting on 8 October, Riho Rõngulep, Head of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence, Ingrid Muul, Deputy Head of the Legal Department, and Riho No, Lieutenant Colonel, as representative of the Defence Forces, took part as representatives of the draft. The purpose of the draft is, as the Minister has already listed, to include the protection of persons in the tasks of the military police, to provide for the right to use the defence forces without the right to use direct force to assist the police, and to change the structure of the defence forces by creating new structural units under the immediate authority of the Commander of the Defence Forces: the Estonian contingent of the Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation, which will perform the functions of the Estonian contingent of the current CCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyPyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCyCy On the basis of § 98 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee, in cooperation with the initiator of the draft, submitted the draft law under discussion in its first reading as amended. The amendments to the draft text are underlined. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided to submit an additional explanatory memorandum on the amendments for the first reading. The explanatory memorandum of the Government of the Republic, or the original explanatory memorandum, is in the original text of the draft. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the first reading of the draft law and the deadline for submitting amendments to the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act is 10 working days, i.e. the deadline is 30 October at 18. Before that, the Commission decided to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U38	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 256. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 256 amendments at 6 p.m. on 30 October. The first item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U39	We will go to the second item on the agenda and we will discuss the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice on the restriction of the authorisation of the general pharmacy. I will present the course of the debate on this issue. First of all, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder's report, which lasts up to 20 minutes. This will be followed by a presentation by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which will also last up to 20 minutes. The report will then be presented by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, who also takes up to 20 minutes to present the draft of the Act before the Riigikogu proceedings. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. The negotiations will then take place. After the negotiations, the matter will be put to the vote. I'm asking for a report from Chancellor of Justice of the Chair, Indrek Teder!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable ambassadors! I have submitted a proposal to you, which shows that §421 (1) to (3) of the Pharmaceutical Act is in breach of the Constitution. Let me make a few introductory remarks. When this amendment was adopted in 2005, a very strong restriction was essentially introduced on the market, on the basis of which those entering the pharmaceutical market cannot establish a general pharmacy in cities with a population of less than 3000 inhabitants per general pharmacy, i.e. demographic restrictions. In addition, there was a geographical restriction: pharmacies could be established in rural areas where the pharmacy did not exist so far. That was the nature of this legislative amendment. I would point out that the Chancellor of Justice immediately stated that the restriction is unconstitutional. Since 2007, it has been under the procedure of the Chancellor of Justice. In the meantime, the state of the pharmaceutical market has been analysed twice by the Competition Authority and this year the National Audit Office did so. A few words about the nature of the pharmaceutical market. Although the impression has been given that it is a retail pharmacist, a pharmacist's market, the reality of Estonia is different. As retailers and wholesalers in Estonia are so-called vertically integrated, i.e. more than 90% of pharmacies are essentially connected to wholesalers, the Estonian pharmacy market, the pharmaceutical market is a wholesale market. Only a few large wholesalers dominate there. They dominate in the sense that without them the producer cannot enter the market. It has to sell to a wholesaler, it cannot sell directly to a person, to a consumer, because retail sales are limited to pharmacies. Figuratively speaking, it is a narrow pipe where the pump is a wholesaler. I stress that there are hardly any so-called independent pharmacies in Estonia; there are only less than 10% of them; all the rest are connected to wholesalers. This is an important aspect of the treatment and analysis of this restriction. Next, I will analyse the contradiction with the Constitution. I will bring out three contradictions. First of all, this restriction is directly contrary to the principle that the Constitution requires the protection of public health to be guaranteed. Secondly, it is directly discriminatory. Thirdly, this means a disproportionate restriction on the freedom to conduct a business. First of all, I am talking about a contradiction with the protection of public health. As is apparent from the analysis of both the Competition Authority and the National Audit Office, the availability of medicines in Estonia is quite limited and the medicines are expensive. If there is a dominant on the market, which is a couple of wholesalers, they will inevitably dictate to the manufacturer what to put on the market and what not. Consequently, it affects the price, and the price is high on the Estonian market, precisely because there is this restriction. Newcomers don't get on the market. As can be seen from the National Audit Office's audit, for example, medicines are sold to hospitals more than 10% cheaper than to pharmacies. We all pay a higher price for medicines, partly because there is a restriction in 2005. The fact that medicines are not well available and expensive is directly contrary to the principle of public health protection. In addition, a 'depreciation' with a restriction was created as if it were solving the issue of the existence of land pharmacies. But we have analysed for many years and found that, firstly, this restriction does not solve this problem, the number of land pharmacies is decreasing anyway, secondly, since this restriction is very strongly affecting the market, it is likely to contribute to the reduction in the number of land pharmacies. The question of land pharmacies is another thing that is artificially connected to this subject. Furthermore, there is a contradiction between the principle of equal treatment. Currently, companies are divided into two groups. One of them is the companies that were already on the Estonian market at the time of the imposition of this restriction. I am referring to wholesalers, because this market is a wholesale market. There's no one else coming. This recommendation that please set up a pharmacy in rural areas has not worked and cannot function, because the pharmacy must at least recover its costs and revenues, but if there is no demand in rural areas, this is not possible. Consequently, the division of the two groups is contrary to the Constitution. It is not only contrary to the constitution but also economically unreasonable to grant such a privilege to those on the market. Thirdly, this restriction means a disproportionate restriction on the freedom to conduct a business. The pharmaceutical market is already closely regulated and putting such a complete market lock means that traders, or wholesalers, who would like to enter the Estonian market and maybe by setting up new pharmacies expand the variety, cannot come here. Consequently, such an absolute restriction is completely disproportionate. Honourable ambassadors! This deterioration in human health has been going on for quite a long time. My proposal is to lift this restriction immediately. If the issue of land pharmacies is to be addressed, it is a separate issue. If there is no profit for rural pharmacies, then a social programme is needed in its own right. But my request is to lift the above-mentioned constitutional restriction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U41	Thank you very much. We go to questions and answers. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U42	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I want to debate now. By the way, in the interest of human health, it is not only the low price of medicines, but also whether a person can buy them somewhere. But my question is about the freedom to conduct a business. Do you think that the sale of medicines differs from the sale of petrol in the sense of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U43	Do I start with freedom of business or people's health? I can start with health. The question is that the price of a medicinal product is one component, as well as the variety, also the availability. In Estonia, as in many other countries, the pharmaceutical market is very well regulated. In Estonia, medicines can only be bought at a pharmacy. A separate issue that I do not want to touch on right now is whether over-the-counter medicines can be sold only at a pharmacy or somewhere else. It has to do with other restrictions. I stress that this restriction, which is currently under discussion, creates an absolute market lock and is not attributable to the existence or disappearance of land pharmacies. This connection is artificial. From an entrepreneurial point of view, economic principles apply to all companies. We can always point out specific features, but the principle that you must, figuratively speaking, get your revenues and expenses after all, is valid everywhere. If this is not the case, then someone, either the local government or the state, will have to subsidise this activity if they consider that the pharmacy is, for example, socially necessary. I know a specific case where the parish subsides a pharmacist who opens a pharmacy one day a week. But it is not real that the entrepreneur is told to go to the pharmacy to open up somewhere where he gets a loss. Who's paying? In this sense, the answer is: economic rules apply in the same way to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U44	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Pharmacists have claimed that they are not purely entrepreneurial. There is no black and white solution here; simply by banning it, obviously, we will not achieve what we all have to aim for, including by not achieving the preservation of land pharmacies. If we develop some kind of new package of measures to support entrepreneurship, such as land pharmacies, in addition to abolishing the restriction, this could lead to different restrictions, without which the situation will not come out of the way either. In this sense, the situation is relatively complex. Please comment on this in a few words.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U46	Thank you. I would stress that this restriction, such a rigid market lock, is detrimental to public health. It's coming out of our analysis. It doesn't make sense to have any kind of aid programme yet. First of all, this restriction should be lifted. Another, separate topic is land pharmacies and access to medicines on land. Like I said, it's a separate subject. But this restriction created an illusion as if this restriction would help. That's not helping! Actually, it's in the very best interest of a couple of wholesalers. Of course, there is a "intrinsic" and "intrinsic" difference in each business area. For example, a breadmaker gives bread to society, but he cannot overcome or reverse the fact that he must at least balance his income and expenses. If he doesn't, he'll go bankrupt. The same principle applies to the sale of medicinal products. If we're looking at wholesalers, we can't say it's a low-profit business. It still goes back to economic principles. If this does not go back to them, if there is a need for some sort of dose solution or any other restriction, then this is another issue. We should discuss separately whether this is necessary or not. There are all kinds of models in Europe. As a remark, I would stress that, according to the European Commission, sales of medicines in Europe are still very limited and sometimes unreasonable. This also comes out of a document prepared by the Department of Analysis and Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu in 2010.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U47	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! My question is...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U49	One second, I'll cut you off! Technical problem, the computer doesn't matter the question time. I'll take a one-minute technical break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U50	I'll use the stopwatch. What's on the screens, you can see the hall. Probably that's how the system works. Please, Helmen Hunter, let's start from the beginning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Have you also assessed in your proposal the possible health consequences of deregulation? It is unlikely that an elderly person or a young family living in the countryside will be particularly pleased if the pharmacy manager closes his pharmacy there and instead establishes a new pharmacy in the city, even next to another pharmacy. Perhaps the price of a medicinal product is indeed going to fall by 10%, but these people will have to spend money and time on getting this medicine. Have you considered that, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U52	As I pointed out, these are two different things. Artificially, the restrictions discussed and the lack of pharmacies in the country are combined. Like I said, these are two different things. I would like to stress the following. The audit of the National Audit Office this year shows that fewer medicines are sold in Estonia and are more expensive than in countries with a standard of living similar to us. One of the reasons for this is the restriction on the establishment of pharmacies, which keeps firms that have approved the market in order to compete. Currently, pharmacies are already 90% controlled by wholesalers. You must not sell medicines outside of pharmacies. This issue of how to ensure access to medicines on land must be viewed in a complex way. As I said before, a separate issue is where medicines are sold. But I don't really want to analyze that right now. The removal of this restriction will certainly help to improve the situation. The argument that, after the abolition of this restriction, the last of the land pharmacies would immediately disappear is, in my opinion, speculative.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U53	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You, of course, are primarily dealing with legal matters, but I am still asking you whether you have looked at the Estonian internal market in the field of autopsy. Unfortunately, there is a market with less than 1.3 million people in Estonia, which is small in nature, and the purchasing power of people is small. Perhaps this is also one reason why we do not have as wide a range of medicines as, for example, in Finland or Germany. That's the first part of the question. The other half follows Paul-Eerik Rummo's question. However, is it not possible to apply an analogy, for example, between electricity systems and transmission lines, as well as an analogy with gas networks?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U55	On the first part of the question, I say that Estonia is small, but given that the population is ageing and the number of potential consumers who need medicines is increasing, as far as I am concerned, producers are fully interested in this market. Even with all price restrictions, medicines are ultimately expensive and the manufacturer is still very useful in this business. There is a great deal of interest in this small market, too, as far as I know. If access were freer, there would probably be more players on the market. The second part of the question concerned divorce. Yes, it is possible to impose all kinds of restrictions on ownership. In the case of certain energy carriers, we have the secondary law of the European Union, the directives that do not exist in this case. According to the judgments of the Court of Justice, it is a matter for each Member State how it regulates the pharmaceutical market. I'm afraid if it's done very rigidly, something could be against the Constitution. I'm hesitant about that. I cannot say that wholesale and retail trade should definitely be separated. The National Audit Office has said so. I say this is a legally controversial issue. It's all worked out this way. We're a small society, some kind of system works, though maybe too powerful. Whether it is reasonable to break this system directly and whether it is legitimate, I cannot say that at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U56	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, Chancellor! I want to ask why this proposal did not come up with the Ministry of Social Affairs. Have you discussed with the ministry what possible health policy consequences your proposal may have?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! I have been an alternate member of both the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in discussions on this subject. We must take a decision to deal with this issue in depth in the future. However, the idea that whatever we do, a new decision or a new solution might also be a violation of the Constitution arises. It is a time-prone concern, but I doubt that we will be able to find a solution fully compatible with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U59	Thank you! I'm aware of that argument. If you look at who is more in the service of a person, whether the principle of the Constitution on the protection of health or the freedom to conduct a business, it is a world-view issue. I tend to think that freedom of enterprise is ultimately in the service of a person, including human health. If you are asking how to achieve this better, I think it is incomprehensible why we have wholesale and retail together. If we can separate them in electricity production to create competition if we can separate them in the gas economy, why can't we do it in the pharmaceutical sector? This is a complex set of measures and there is no one, clear and quick solution. The fact that rural pharmacies and city pharmacies operate under very different social conditions is still a separate issue. So this is a complex and multi-layered problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U60	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! Did the Commission also mention that the Supreme Court has confirmed the legitimacy and compatibility of the restriction with the Constitution and even claimed that the restriction is necessary and legitimate in the public interest? Was it also said that there is such a restriction in 15 European countries other than Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U62	There was no specific mention of this in the Commission, although a brief reference to the Court's judgment was made. Indeed, neither freedom to conduct a business is an unlimited freedom; freedom to conduct a business can be restricted. What arguments and how to do that are up to us. I very much hope that, in the course of our further work, we will discuss the choice of restrictions and their justification and make decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U63	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U64	Thank you. Am I on the right track when I say that the real focus of this proposal and the whole problem by the Chancellor of Justice is not that entrepreneurship should not be restricted in the public interest, but that the restriction that is currently being imposed on entrepreneurship has not been achieved and probably does not achieve this noble higher objective of improving people's health?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U65	Good questioner! I agree with you basically. This restriction, which we imposed some seven years ago, was perhaps justified in its own time or was at least furnished with good hopes, but the result that we have today does not meet the hopes and wishes we had. Therefore, they may need to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U66	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, With these restrictions, I believe that the same situation has arisen when, for example, there could be only one hairdresser in the village. So what if this one hairdresser has scissors dull and sometimes he cuts his ear too, but that's okay, the limit won't let another hairdresser go to work next door. In such a case, the people of the country would be far from satisfied. People would collect some money and drive to a centre where the quality of service is better. That is exactly what has happened now. After all, the establishment limit has not given people high-quality pharmacy services. In many cases, it is still a center where there is a larger variety and also cheaper medicine. Was there any discussion in the Commission and, if so, could anyone prove how this restriction has, however, improved the quality of the pharmacy service provided to rural people?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U68	This issue was not directly on our agenda. As I have explained to you, the focus of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is a little different. The content of this question lies in the competence of the Social Affairs Committee. But I fully understand your question, and I also understand it from personal experience. When I go to the country, a neighbor's wife asks for eye drops, another wants to buy ear medication or bladder tea, and I have to get them out of town. It's unreasonable to spend time and money driving into town for these simple things. Therefore, the topic of land pharmacies is indeed a separate issue. If you ask my opinion, I see no reason why non-prescription medicines should be sold only in pharmacies, so why shouldn't they be sold in country shops, so that a countryman doesn't have to go anywhere for simple things?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U69	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, it's amazing when some big things in the country wait six or seven years in line. There is a feeling that we do not have a government, a ministry or a Riigikogu. My question relates precisely to this issue. As Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to ask you: can you tell me what other area of freedom of business is restricted? If this has not been discussed in the Commission, perhaps you are planning to discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U71	I didn't understand well whether you asked for this case, I mean, in relation to pharmacies or at all. No, we have not specifically taken the subject of restricting the freedom to conduct a business within the Commission. It is still a problem-oriented, draft or case-oriented approach. In general, we have not dealt with this issue in brief.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U72	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U73	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The sale of medicines at the store is a long-sought topic. It is somewhat surprising that it was again an issue during this debate. Prescriptions for over-the-counter medicines are known to sound on TV and on the radio. Should they stop saying that if complaints persist or side effects occur, talk to your doctor or shop vendor?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U74	Thank you. When you are familiar (I hope you have done so) with the materials provided by the Chancellor of Justice, you know that he also deals with the impact of a specific restriction on land pharmacies. It is claimed that the number of land pharmacies has also decreased during the period of the establishment restriction. I conclude from this that this restriction is not sufficient and, according to the existing organisation, the availability of medicines is not sufficiently guaranteed in the country. That is why I welcome the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 20, as opening up the medicine law for discussion gives the Riigikogu the opportunity to look at the principles that have been emphasised by the Chancellor of Justice and to take the basis of substantive solutions to improve access to medicines, especially in the country, in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U75	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U76	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. Has the Social Affairs Committee also examined the audit of the National Audit Office? My proposal is that the audit of the National Audit Office and the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice should be examined together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U77	Thank you, good questioner! If you mean the last audit of the National Audit Office, we had representatives of the National Audit Office who presented the main points of their audit on the same day within the framework of the previous agenda item. We will certainly take these views and analyses into account in future work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U78	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U79	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! Since I was unable to attend the meeting of the Social Committee in connection with my stay in foreign affairs, I have the following question. Did the Ministry of Social Affairs present to you the support letter of 92 signed small pharmacies and rural pharmacies, which was forwarded to the Ministry of Social Affairs last year, and also the address of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments to the Ministry of Social Affairs in December 2011? Secondly, we pay the doctors a start-up grant. Do you think this would be one way in the future to encourage pharmacists to be motivated to go to work in the country at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U80	Yes, in some countries wholesale and retail are divorced. But at the moment, such a functioning system has developed in Estonia, and I very much doubt that it will be possible to separate them. There'll be a lot of questions. Businesses can say that this is a disproportionate restriction on the freedom to conduct a business. In my opinion, we can only take realistic steps. First of all, the restriction on establishment in this restricted market should be abolished. The picture will then be clearer and it is theoretically possible that new players will enter the market in such a market situation. Competition offers better solutions for the consumer. We can see that this has been the case in many areas. Of course, this can be discussed, but the reality is that competition guarantees better service and better goods for the consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U81	Thank you. I know the Committee on Constitutional Affairs didn't discuss this issue, but maybe you have a personal opinion. I ask Sven Mikser's question: can we look at it the other way so that we can sell bread and vodka at the pharmacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U82	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In January 2005, I was one of the initiators of the draft restriction on the establishment of pharmacies. I therefore know very precisely what the objectives of this restriction were. First of all, avoid the accumulation of pharmacies in large cities, so-called growth in all directions. Secondly, avoid a drastic reduction in the number of pharmacies in the country. The decrease in their number has slowed down, we can say today. However, I ask: why are you distorting the purpose of the restriction on the establishment of pharmacies and in your proposal misleadingly claiming that, as the number of land pharmacies has not increased, the restriction does not fulfil the objective? We didn't expect that. Secondly, is the ultimate value of society still freedom to conduct a business or to protect people's health?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U83	I have to think about it, but it's not a constitutional issue. Perhaps the Committee on Social Affairs will discuss this, and if the outcome of these discussions reaches this Chamber, we will jointly find an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U84	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am very much in favour of your proposal, and if I could, I would press the green button twice, but I probably won't press the button twice this time. I myself am a rural man and I am well aware that with this restriction, the quality of the pharmacy service has not actually been improved in the country or the choice of services has been increased. When talking to people, it turns out that they have long since failed to understand why one pharmacy cannot have another, why services have not developed, why medicines are more expensive in Estonia, etc. The National Audit Office has also done a very great job. I recognise their work, because the establishment limit has not really achieved its objective. My question is: have the rural people not addressed you with such concerns before? Have you not written letters on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U86	If I remember correctly, the procedure was initiated already in 2007 on the basis of a number of statements claiming that such a situation was unconstitutional. The media may give the impression that the abolition of the restriction discriminates against rural people. I think that's quite questionable. Yeah, there have been statements like that by memory.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U87	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Good Chancellor of Justice! In the Commission, you put forward the idea that wholesalers could set up a fund to support the preservation of land pharmacies. Can you tell us whether Estonian laws give us the opportunity to create such a fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U89	The Commission analysed a number of options to address the problem of the preservation of land pharmacies and the availability of medicines on land. Right now, yes, the Estonian legal space does not give us the opportunity to do so. This is one of the places to consider what to do next. In essence, this is a certain restriction. Whether this restriction is proportionate or not is a separate point of discussion. The foundation has been discussed, but there are pros and cons. As a counter argument, it could immediately be said that this would increase the administrative burden, create more bureaucracy. In other words, it may ensure that keeping a pharmacy in a rural area where there is not enough demand for profit is still profitable. As I said, there are pros and cons here, but this may be an option to discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U90	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U91	Thank you. Good waitress! I ask, inspired by your response to Peep Aru's question and knowing that your experience with the range of French goods is much richer than mine, although I have spent almost a month a year there too in recent years because of the membership of the ENPA delegation: have you not noticed that in France and Germany, perhaps the selection of other goods is much richer because of the size of the market? Or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U92	That's right! I fully agree with you that we put health care first. As is apparent from the audit of the National Audit Office, due to this restriction we have more expensive and less available medicines. Yes, at the time, the drafters had the objective you mentioned, but also on the basis of the most modest analysis, it is now clear that this objective has not been fulfilled by 2012. We divided the market into two parts: the market in the city and the market in the country. But when we talk about wholesale and wholesale, this market is a whole. The simplest thing to say is that this restriction has not worked or is not working; it cannot work. A newcomer does not go to the pharmacy to set up a place where he does not receive a balance between income and expenses. I just put freedom of business in a third position. The first is public health, the second is equal treatment of business groups. You're saying this is a reasonable situation. The question arises as to why those who were already on the market were given the sweetest position. Perhaps, according to the logic of the drafters, these established companies should have gone to the country and an open offer should have been made in the city. They were essentially granted special or exclusive rights in the area of pharmacy establishment as well as in the pharmaceutical market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U93	Thank you. Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U94	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! The text of your proposal refers to the fact that the establishment limit reduces the number of rural pharmacies. At the same time, both EU regulators and local pharmacies consider that the number of rural pharmacies fell despite the introduction of the establishment restriction and that the establishment restriction has actually slowed down the decline. Can you please describe how you have come to the conclusion that the establishment limit will reduce the number of land pharmacies? In your proposal, as well as in your presentation, you expressed your opinion. But would there be any way to get acquainted with the facts that prove your point of view, rather than to restrict themselves to opinions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U95	First of all, I would like to stress that these are two different issues: the existence of land pharmacies and regional policy as a whole and the protection of public health and access to medicines. In principle, the introduction of such absolute restrictions on the market will worsen the health situation and thus contribute to a reduction in the number of rural pharmacies. In any event, this has not ensured the objective which was originally envisaged. When it comes to the idea that European regulators feel the same way or the other way around, there are very different opinions. However, it must be borne in mind that the European Commission has analysed pharmacy regulations in 25 Member States of the European Union. I will bring out seven regulations that work together, and if one is raised above the others, its effect will be stronger. First of all, educational limitations (mandatory special education, duration of study, duration of traineeship, number of students accepted). Secondly, registration and licensing obligations or compulsory membership of professional associations, examinations and membership fees. Thirdly, the regulation of the monopoly of pharmacists, i.e. who, apart from the pharmacist, can issue prescription and non-prescription medicines. Fourthly, restrictions on owners and activities, i.e. in which cases several pharmacies can be owned and where location restrictions on the establishment of a new pharmacy are available. Fifthly, restrictions on horizontal and vertical integration between wholesalers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and pharmacists. Sixthly, the rules of operation, i.e. the regulation of floor space and advertising, and the requirement for the presence of a pharmacist. Seventhly, price regulation for both prescription and non-prescription medicines as well as profit margins. The first five regulations describe the market structure and the last two market behaviours. This restriction, or absolute market lock, works with other restrictions. From this I conclude that, in essence, if we increase the number of restrictions, it will help to reduce the number of pharmacies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U96	Thank you. Please, Andres Jalak!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U97	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I'll pick up where my colleague Aidma ended up. Indeed, after removing this restriction, there is something to be offered in place. It's no secret there's plenty of pharmacies in town. From a legal point of view, what about the suggestion that those who can hold a pharmacy in the city also have the obligation to keep a pharmacy in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U98	As I emphasised, the topic of land pharmacies is another issue. It should not be the case that the removal of the restriction is linked to the imposition of other restrictions. There is no doubt that a variety of models may be considered, the model you have mentioned may also be considered. But it's a separate subject. In that case, it must be assessed whether it is proportionate to limit that, where a wholesaler has a certain number of pharmacies, he must also keep pharmacies in the country. This is a matter of evaluation in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U99	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U100	Thank you. In most Member States of the European Union, there are various restrictions, in some countries they are tougher than our restrictions, in some countries they are not. Can you tell me which EU Member State regulation for the sale of medicines would be worth following or analysing from whom you could measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U101	Unfortunately, it must be said that such a good example cannot be found. Restrictions in each country relate to a wide range of legal aspects, a wide range of cultural and historical aspects. This area is usually very restrictive. But it can be said that such being together as a wholesaler and a retailer, plus an absolute market lock, is the exception rather than the rule. The European Commission's study also shows that the pharmaceutical market is over-regulated rather than under-regulated. But we have nowhere to set a good example, it is such a specific area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U102	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U103	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have a very strange feeling because you speak very convincingly, but just as convincingly as the Pharmacy Association speaks. Actually, they're both right. I honestly don't think it's about pharmacies. The thing is, we have two major wholesalers who have seized over 80% of this market. The restrictions don't change anything, in the sense that the drugstore doesn't come to the Bear Village. Have you analyzed, perhaps the pharmacy should still be a health care service for which the state is responsible? Actually, everybody wants to do business. Keeping a pharmacy is a business, and it is done in large cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U104	Thank you! Indeed, there is a situation in which two major wholesalers dictate the conditions for the producer on the one hand and the consumer on the other. I doubt that the situation that retail and wholesale are essentially connected can be changed. I don't believe in that. It'll probably stay that way. I do not think it would be realistic for the state to assume this service. However, public authorities can analyse the availability of medicines in rural areas where there are problems, and there are reasonable solutions to guarantee people constitutional access to medicines. But I doubt that even replacing companies with the service provided by the state is prospective. I'm afraid that's not realistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U105	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Do you think that access could be improved by allowing over-the-counter medicines to be sold in rural shops?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U107	Whether or not to allow over-the-counter sales is a dispute. At the moment, I would not like to take a position, because it is like opening a new dispute, which should remain a separate item of debate. Yes, there are many models in the world. We know that in some countries wider over-the-counter sales are permitted, in some countries there is not. We are very opposed to this. But I would leave it to myself, not to link it to this subject of limitation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U108	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U109	Thank you, good manager. Your Honor, Chancellor! I apologize for my assessment, but you're performing today as a lawyer for the big pharmaceutical companies. You talked about the limited availability of medicines, medicines are expensive, new entrants cannot enter the market. You also said that the current law restricts the freedom to conduct a business. How do you feel about people who do not receive this service at the same level as they get in Tallinn or Tartu, according to the Constitution, are they hurt or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U110	Thank you for your question. I do not agree with a respected questioner. In my report, I explicitly said that, contrary to public health interests, market power has been handed over to some wholesalers and that the entry of others on the market is thereby prevented. This question of access to medicines in rural areas is, after all, a separate issue, as I have said about six times. It can be socially solved, it can be economically solved, but it is a separate issue. The establishment limit is independent and directly serves the interests of large wholesalers, who dictate conditions for both producers and consumers. As the National Audit Office has pointed out, the availability of medicines in terms of price is much worse in Estonia than in other countries that are at the same level as us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U111	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U112	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I was somewhat surprised that you're supposedly still in law practice. But let's put the ratings aside. I have actually already received an answer to my question concerning the other countries of the European Union, but I would like to ask a little bit more about drawing up a specific analysis. Population density varies across the European Union and as a result there are also a number of regulations on access to medicines in rural areas. When you prepared the analysis, did you look at a particular country with a situation similar to ours? In Estonia, people are known to be sparse and there may be problems with access to medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U113	The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu analysed the regulations of several countries in 2010. There's no gold solution there now. As I emphasised before, there are very different solutions. It is a project in itself to ensure regional access to medicines. But this solution still needs to be found in a specific environment. We can't just write something off. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U114	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U115	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I want to hear the statistics you rely on when you talk about the deterioration of our public health within the framework of the current regulation. After all, statistics are actually the opposite: the number of healthy years of our people is increasing. Where do these data come from, and what are these numbers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U116	My conclusion is based on two analysis by the Competition Authority and analysis by the National Audit Office. I am based on the fact that if the price of medicines is higher and the range of medicines is lower, it makes sense that it is detrimental to human health. Or is it the opinion of the honourable delegates that the drugs are supposed to be expensive and that their variety should be small? I don't agree with that. In my opinion, this is a direct logic and there is no need to carry out statistical analyses here. I'm talking about people's health in terms of access to medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U117	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U118	Thank you. Mr. Chancellor of Justice! It is God's clear that we must oppose any market lockdown that increases the chances of creating monopolies and cartels. That's very clear. But there was a fatalist note running through your report. It is as if we can resist this phenomenon we are discussing. But what about the interrelationship between wholesale and retail trade, which is also an unhealthy phenomenon? Is there no way to resist that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U119	Actually, it's an old subject. It was up before I started acting as Chancellor of Justice. As far as I know, the Ministry of Social Affairs has also admitted that this is illegal. The problem was allowed to be solved. The Government of the Republic discussed this in 2010 and considered that the restriction on establishment should be lifted. The Riigikogu commission commissioned an analysis of this from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery. But that's where it all went. All the institutions are basically aware of this issue; no one will argue that it is in conflict with the Constitution, but it is a subject that continues to fade. That's why I'm standing here. It can't last any longer. It started in 2005, now it's 2012. If all the institutions have repeatedly said that the situation is unconstitutional and not only formally, but also essentially harms people's health, then something must be done. But everyone involved has been informed of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U120	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I would like to invite Mr Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to attend the speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 20 on the restriction of the authorisation of a general pharmacy. Indrek Teder, Chancellor of Justice, Head of Department of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, Kärt Muller, Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice, and Kristjan Ots, Senior Adviser to the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice presented his views, which were very much in line with what was brought before you today. We asked the Chancellor of Justice in the Commission a number of questions. As a result of the discussion, the Commission found that the restrictions on the issue and change of the licence of general pharmacy laid down in subsections 1 to 3 of § 421 of the Pharmaceutical Act are formally incompatible with the fundamental freedoms of business and equality laid down in the Constitution and decided to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. There were 6 Commission members in favour of this proposal, with 1, 2 abstentions. At the same time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs noted that the Constitution also includes the principle of social statehood (§ 10) and the right of everyone to health protection (§ 28), and that the Constitution also sets out the principle of the protection of public health. In view of this, the Commission adopted such a decision by consensus: 'With regard to the above and the support of the Riigikogu of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 20, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it necessary to draw the attention of the Social Affairs Committee, as the committee dealing with the amendment of the medicine law, to the fact that bringing the medicine law into line with the Constitution, must ensure that the free market and health care are protected in the best possible way. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is important that, at the same time as the abolition of restrictions on establishment, an effective measure has been developed to preserve or facilitate the establishment of land pharmacies. In a situation where restrictions on establishment are removed, but no effective measure to support rural pharmacies has been developed, there is a risk that the pharmacy market will not, however, face the expected free competition. In order to avoid such a situation and to protect constitutional principles and rights, consideration may be given, for example, to the separation of retail and wholesale distribution of medicinal products and the implementation of support measures for land pharmacies, such as the Equalisation Fund. " That was the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On my behalf, I would add that the abolition of this restriction requires a very thoughtful and balanced decision and the following steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U122	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U123	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, there is no doubt that the establishment limit restricts the freedom to conduct a business, since it is a restriction. But its purpose was noble, among other things, by means of this restriction, it was intended to guarantee everyone's constitutional right to the protection of health, which you also referred to in your report. If the nearest pharmacy is a hundred kilometres away, it is quite difficult to exercise this right. I believe you agree with me that restricting the freedom to conduct a business is justified in certain cases, such as the ban on the sale of alcohol to minors or the licensing of medical services. Can you, please, take a brief summary of how the Commission came to the opinion that the founding restriction is precisely an illegal restriction on the freedom to conduct a business?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U124	Honourable questioner! I referred to our collective decision that this conflict is formally present, but whether it actually exists, here is the place of the dispute. Our recommendation to the Committee on Social Affairs, adopted by consensus, shows that we should perhaps come back to the subject and discuss it. Since this whole issue is not directly the subject of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but above all the subject of the Committee on Social Affairs, we did not, as you remember, carry out a very detailed analysis, and I am not going to do it here either. It's the subject of future work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U125	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U126	Which situation corresponds better to § 28 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to health protection, is the current situation, where we have certain restrictions that allow small pharmacies to be kept in the country, or what the Chancellor of Justice offers, that there is a liquor store around the port in Tallinn, a pharmacy, a liquor store, a pharmacy, a liquor store, a pharmacy, a pharmacy? In which case have we followed the Constitution better?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U127	Honourable questioner! We like 'no' and 'yes' responses, but unfortunately life rarely offers 'no' and 'yes' responses. Let me repeat a little of the answer I gave to Andrei Korobenik. We found that there was a formal contradiction. This question can be asked, but how to resolve this contradiction is still the subject of further analysis and consideration. This issue is more related to social policy than to compliance with the Constitution. I wouldn't do a personal analysis right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U128	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U129	Thank you. Honourable performer! We know that restrictions really apply in most European countries, and the judgment of the European Court of Justice also says that the protection of human health is a priority over the freedom to conduct a business. I'm asking you now which, in your opinion, is gonna break the constitution more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U130	Thank you. Of course, there is an opportunity. Any decisions taken in the current circumstances, given the current situation and understanding, may prove to be wrong or contradictory in the future. There is no guarantee of that. But that does not mean that we should not strive to find a sensible, optimal and constitutional solution. It must not be used as an excuse that no matter what we do, it is still contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U131	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U132	Thank you. I'm sure you got it right. Indeed, there are also food products in at least some segments cheaper than we do. But coming back to the pharmacy market, I'll tell you, these things have their historical roots. In one country, there have been similar perceptions, in another. Medicinal products, what to say, "status" is then a prescription medicine, a non-prescription medicine, or a general substance that tones through history have gone through the genesis, and each country has decided for itself here. We have not quite gone along with modern developments in order to adapt to new circumstances. Indeed, it does not make sense why a heart tea, a simple painkiller, or a ointment should go to the town to buy from a pharmacy if it could be available on site as well. Take, for example, the online sale of hand-held medicines, which exists in many countries. I don't think I'm an expert on the pharmacy market, I'm just like you, but there are some things that raise questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U133	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U134	Thank you. When we discuss this issue, we get a strange feeling because, on the one hand, we are trying to bring the law into line with the Constitution, but at the same time, the point of bringing this provision into the law was really to protect the land pharmacies. If these same pharmacies and also the Pharmacy Association are now of the opinion that this provision is actually helping them, are we not going to do things in the wrong order if, as a first step, we take down the establishment limit and only after that we begin to think about how to preserve pharmacies in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U135	Thank you. I remember Kajar Lember also raised this issue at the committee meeting. Indeed, it is a place of concern. If we take only one step, we lose this restriction and then we start to work out all the other steps, it may be very late. The proposed steps and legislative changes should therefore be coordinated and well thought out in order to make it clear what to do and how to do it. It is entirely justified to draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U136	Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U137	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The question of a good colleague, Peep Aru, was, in my opinion, well-founded. When you look at North America, separate pharmacies are almost extinct. At the same time, the pharmacy is a grocery store, and together with medicines you can buy both bread and milk. Can you point out a very good argument as to why our country stores could not sell the simplest and most innocent things that are currently sold at the pharmacy, such as as aspirin and plasters?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U138	Thank you for your question. This question was more of a matter of focus. I personally see no obstacle to this, except for the interests of the pharmacists' clan, so that this business segment does not go out of their control and system. That's all I see.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U139	Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U140	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Honourable waitress! I must admit that your approach to the subject must be looked at in different respects is very sympathetic. This is a complex issue, the freedom to conduct a business must still serve wider goals and certainly human health is one of those goals. I fully share these views. But did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also have a map of Estonian pharmacies on the table during the debate on this subject, from which it would have seen how the location of pharmacies has changed over the last few years and also during the period of the establishment restriction?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U141	Thanks for asking. I realized the clue, but if you answer it briefly, I'll say that the map wasn't in front of us. However, the documents of the Pharmacy Association and the surprise surprise-surprise also came to our table from the European institution, which is involved in this area. Behind it, there was the efficient and quick lobbying of wholesale companies. At the same time, the interests and views of potential patients were completely unrepresented. I think that here we should look at who represents the interests and also pay attention to who are potential interested parties on this issue as consumers. I think it is clear now that one side is very massively represented by all kinds of arguments, but the other side is relatively quiet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U142	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U143	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! Did the Commission not discuss the situation in the family doctor system as a comparison? There, too, the state has established certain limits, the size of the lists. If not discussed, do you not see that there is a certain similarity here, because both are health services and state regulated? In fact, the provision of family medical services is basically a private enterprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U144	Thank you! The short answer is no. The Chancellor of Justice put a specific question before us and argued it. We took a stand within the framework of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. We did not extend this issue to the area you referred to. Although I admit that there may be some kind of parallel or similarity, we did not deal with it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U145	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. I call Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U146	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 20 at its meeting on Monday, 8 October 2012. In the Commission, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder was heard about the restriction on the granting and change of the licence of the general pharmacy. The Head of the Department of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, Kärt Muller, Adviser to the Chancellor of Justice, and Kristjan Ots, Senior Adviser to the Chancellor of Justice took part in the discussion. Dagmar Rüütel, Head of Medicine Department, participated in the discussion at the Ministry of Social Affairs. During the debate, it was decided to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 20 on the restriction of the authorisation of general pharmacies, it was also decided that the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 20 will be at the plenary session of the Riigikogu today and the Commission's presentation will be presented by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee (by 4 members of the Commission, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions). I can say that the Committee on Social Affairs in its sitting deepened the debate on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 20 and supported his proposal. It is clear that even if the Chamber of Riigikogu supports the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, the Social Affairs Committee must follow up with substantive work to develop a legislative amendment that takes into account, firstly, the legality and compliance with the Constitution, secondly, the interests of all parties, especially people. The interests of the people are also described in the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice concerning the role of public health in the context of the Constitution. Access to medicines must be guaranteed to consumers throughout Estonia under the best possible conditions and the principle of freedom of business should be violated as little as possible. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U147	Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. Now it's time for questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U148	Thank you. Good performer! We have seen that the Chancellor of Justice has not provided an analysis of the effects of abolishing the establishment restriction on the health implications. Does the Social Affairs Committee intend to carry out this analysis? On the other hand, what are the first proposals that you think should be made to ensure that the land pharmacies are preserved? This is not another question, it is the same question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U149	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, during the debate, the Committee on Social Affairs also stressed the principle that the pharmacy service must become more accessible to people, especially in the countryside. As we know, this service is now available to everyone in the city, although this provision restricts the activities of pharmacies, i.e. the right to establish them also in the city, in a densely populated area. But it's a separate subject. It is certainly necessary to review how the creation permits are actually granted by drawing lots. What will be the solutions? Finding solutions requires that we carry out an in-depth analysis of what will result in the removal of all these restrictions. However, as the Chancellor of Justice said, entrepreneurship can be restricted. In particular, the principle of public health must be taken as a basis, i.e. the best possible availability of medicines across Estonia. I hope that the Riigikogu, despite the very long history of this subject, will be able to develop legislative changes based on this principle, so that access to medicines is guaranteed both in densely populated areas and on land.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U150	Please, my colleague Andres Jalak!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U151	Thank you. Good colleague! The current retail and wholesale system in pharmacy would be unthinkable in some other areas of life. What do you think about divorcing them? Would the Commission be prepared to take this matter forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U152	Thank you, good questioner! I would not like to come up with concrete solutions, as the Committee on Social Affairs is just starting this work. Indeed, one proposal has been to separate retail and wholesale distribution. The question is whether this would actually lead to significant changes. The current and previous Riigikogu and government have dealt with comparable activities in other areas of life. When we talk about electricity, we can say that the network is separated from the manufacturer, and in the case of gas, the same debate is raised. This is one issue that will certainly come up, but it will require a very substantive analysis and involvement of all parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U153	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U154	Thank you. Honourable performer! You said you were going to start your analysis. Wouldn't it have been better to do this analysis a little earlier? When the Chancellor of Justice's proposal came up on the agenda, there would have been something to put on the table. Hence my question of continuation. You've looked into it, and you're going to perform passionately in front of us. Can you name me three land pharmacies you've been going to personally over the last six months and the situation you've been familiar with?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U155	Thank you, good questioner! As far as legal analysis is concerned, today we are talking about legal issues, namely the specific proposal of the Chancellor of Justice No 20, and the Social Affairs Committee has already commissioned an analysis from the Legal and Analytical Department of our office. In the Committee on Social Affairs, a debate was held on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 20. Similarly, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where the Chancellor of Justice visited just before the Social Affairs Committee arrived. We also knew the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U156	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U157	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! The network of rural pharmacies is at the heart of this whole debate. In order to make this assessment, the first question to be answered is whether the current system, the network that the country has, can be satisfied. What's your position? If you are satisfied, the objective of the future draft will be to protect the existing network. If you think you can't be satisfied, how do you imagine this network in rural areas in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U158	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U159	The Social Affairs Committee will solve what can and cannot be sold. But I can say that I have lived in France for 12 years, where there was a large German market right next to it. Medicines in pharmacies were cheaper there, and the choice was much more abundant. Something's wrong in this market on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U160	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U161	Thank you, good questioner! These specific letters were not presented by the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but we will be able to request these letters and take these opinions into account in our subsequent discussions. One possibility is indeed what the Chancellor of Justice has also mentioned that there should be incentives for access to medicines in rural areas, i.e. the provision of pharmacy services. Whether or not there should be an obligation that, if someone receives a passport for a city pharmacy in a densely populated settlement, he must contribute to either subsidising rural pharmacies or supporting pharmacists, is the place of analysis. A number of options exist in the world. We still have this job ahead of us, good Riigikogu. I hope that, in this work, we will, above all, be based on how to improve access to medicines and not on any other interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U162	Please, my colleague Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U163	Thank you. In replying to questions, the Chancellor of Justice mentioned that the restriction on establishment must be lifted immediately. In addition, he published certain scepticism on a few steps, such as retail and wholesale unbundling. Did the Social Affairs Committee also believe that it was precisely the lifting of the restriction that should start, and the next steps will be the subject of the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U164	Thank you, good questioner! We have discussed the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 20, which is also before you and which I am sure you are familiar with. But it is clear that work on amending the law must begin immediately, there must be no moment of uncertainty. The Committee on Social Affairs has expressed its clear readiness to address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U165	Thank you. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Our public administration is centralized and, unfortunately, private business is monopolised. For example, farmland continues to grow, businesses join and grow. We also have big chains and small players in trade, and there are big chains and small players in pharmaceutical sales. Unfortunately, it is in rural areas that these small performers and individual performers in particular. Do you think that the abolition of the establishment restriction will support the development of large chains or the survival of small players?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U167	Thank you, good questioner! We certainly need to do an analysis to find out what the result is. I would like to remind you that this is not about how big or small a particular company is, but about ensuring that we provide citizens with the best possible pharmaceutical services. This should be the starting point. Although the pharmaceutical market is and must be a regulated market, there is also an analysis of whether competition leads to better conditions, lower prices and better service quality than the fixed market situation, which is in some respects encouraged by the current regulation. The aim is certainly to improve access to medicines in rural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U168	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. I'm opening negotiations. I'm asking for a speech chair at Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! Ladies and gentlemen, the Chancellor of Justice and the guests, the representatives of the pharmacists. Today, we have the choice of whether we are in favour of the land being left with small medicine shops, which are held by higher-education pharmacists working for about 350 euros, who have for years come to resist the request of the family doctor and the municipality to receive the necessary medicine in any way, or we are again giving the green road to the proliferation of chain pharmacies in the sweet places of the big cities, the light-filled shopping centres, business streets and tourist attractions, where there are already too many pharmacies. Good newcomers! There are places in Estonia where the pharmacy is expected to be opened. Why don't you go in there and make them? There are about 50 places in Estonia where the family doctor is still working, but the pharmacy is no longer available. Powerful pharmacy chains and their businessmen's owners do not take the pharmacy to the periphery, because there is no money in it, but they drain the countryside from the professional workforce, which leads to the closure of land pharmacies. Yes, in 2005 we adopted a restriction on establishment in the Riigikogu to prevent the mass concentration of pharmacies from the country to the city. The first amendment was made by myself at the time. Statistics from the Agency show that since then the rate of closure of land pharmacies has slowed. For example, only one land pharmacy disappeared last year. I mean, the restriction has begun to meet its goals. Over the years, there has been a desire to lift this limit many times. This is what the Competition Authority, the National Audit Office, the Chancellor of Justice and the Government have wanted to do. When the restriction came into effect, the businessmen's fight against it began immediately. The question also reached the Supreme Court, who once again confirmed that the restriction is legal. Foreign pharmacies have even promised to leave Estonia if the restriction is maintained. The Chancellor of Justice brings the breach of the Constitution as a reason for lifting the restriction. The restriction also undermines freedom of competition and business. Is freedom to conduct a business, then, the ultimate value of society? Putting people at risk as if it wasn't a problem! The Chancellor of Justice even brings parallels to taxi service, catering, and restaurants. But let us understand that the pharmacy service is not the same as the sale of a loaf of bread or a pair of boots! According to the judgments of both the Supreme Court and the European Court of Justice, the protection of public health is a fundamental right which can be seriously undermined by excessive competition as it impairs access to medicines in the countryside and the quality of service in the city. The sale of medicinal products is not a traditional trade because competition on the price of medicinal products does not have a significant impact. The price depends first and foremost on the national mark-up limits, the price agreements between the State and the producer and the benefits of the health insurance fund. A similar conclusion has been reached, for example, in a study carried out by the Austrian Institute of Health and the Danish Pharmacy Association in March this year. It was found that the market alone does not regulate and that national controls would certainly also be needed. The same restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies apply in a large number of countries: Austria, Belgium, Croatia, France, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia and Spain. Nor is this activity free in Finland, Poland, Denmark, Cyprus and Germany, as there is a restriction on licences. The European Commission has also abandoned the requirements for the liberalisation of the pharmacy sector and closed all infringement proceedings on this issue in November 2011. This means that we are based on outdated positions. Hungary, for example, also imposed a restriction, but recently lost it. The same is true in Sweden. But I ask again: is the pharmacy service a health care service or business in Estonia? Is the pharmacist-heed scientist with the education of the University of Tartu a health care professional or is he a shopper like any other wiener seller? The answer is that unlike all other European countries, pharmacists in Estonia are not health care workers and the pharmacy service is not a health care service. Therefore, the availability of pharmacy services in Estonia is not a matter for the state. Medication has become a pharmaceutical business, and the pharmacist is no longer required to be a pharmacist. It could be any shoemaker, as long as he's 18 years old. The Centre Party and Minister Siiri Oviir, in power in 1996, restricted the owners of pharmacies by law. The owner could only be a specialised pharmacist, as is the practice in Europe. Unfortunately, an extraordinary session of the Riigikogu came together the same summer and the new Minister of Social Affairs, Toomas Vilosius, made the pharmacy a normal business. At that time, too, the author of the proposal was the Chancellor of Justice. The Riigikogu bowed to the business world. There were powerful chains, wholesale and retail transfers combined, the pharmacist started to depend on pharmaceutical companies, the choice of medicines was given to him in advance, and it was oriented towards profitability, the salary depended on sales. I think the new arrivals would be sewn exactly the same. Profit has become a priority, not curing people. With this, the country has wiped its hands out of the problem. Why would he subsidise a land-based enterprise? However, in Europe, countries are subsidising rural pharmacies. Our country, however, does not care whether or not there are pharmacies in the country. Earth pharmacies would only be saved by a cardinal change in the country's pharmaceutical policy. Pharmacy services should be brought back from business to healthcare. Of course, retail and wholesale sales should be separated. However, the current restriction is the cheapest measure for the country to support land pharmacies, as the costs are borne by the pharmacy sector itself. If you lose the establishment limit and as a result the land pharmacies disappear, the restoration of the pharmacy network will no longer be economically viable for the Estonian state in the future. Or is losing land pharmacies an end in itself? Then, under the label of liberalisation of the pharmacy market, you can bring medicines to gas stations and shops, and the shop vendor will advise you when you are being treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U170	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Honourable Riigikogu! I think that the question that arose when listening to the Chancellor of Justice, which included a reference to the law firm, was entirely appropriate. Do you know why? In my opinion, the biggest drawback of the document that has been submitted to us is that two things have been allocated to public health interests there. When it comes to public health, a lawyer might really want to talk only about the price, but the Chancellor of Justice should definitely add a place where he can buy something at that price. That would be much more appropriate to the Chancellor of Justice. We can't separate two things and just think about the price. There is also another side: there must be a place to buy the medicine. It is certainly in the interests of pharmaceutical companies to expand their sales network by buying ibuprofen from a gas station. The plus side of this is that ibuprofen is easier to reach. But the negative side is that these drugs, called prescription medications, you won't get away with it. You're gonna have to go a lot longer and spend a lot more money. Estonia is not the only country facing this problem. The logic in the Chancellor of Justice's speech that the abolition of the establishment limit can increase the number of wholesalers in Estonia is extremely naive. I don't know what it's based on. Then why would there be more wholesalers? I'm sure it should be dealt with in order to have more wholesalers, but is this law here helping? Ultimately, what are the options? One that has been used is a state monopoly. It would probably be too expensive to create in Estonia and not an option. Another option is to support rural pharmacies by means of a mark-up. This would help them a little, but the biggest part of the money that is taken from the consumer's pocket would go to those pharmacies that are already profitable. In addition, consumers should pay for it themselves. The third option is that the state subsidises land pharmacies with a fixed amount. This must be the most real opportunity compared to what we're doing right now. But as long as such an opportunity has not been put on the table before us, there is no way to cancel the current system of restricting the keeping of pharmacies in the country. It would be a total crash, first for human health. If there is a clear and firm plan to support which pharmacies and under what conditions, the current system could be abandoned, but in the meantime it must remain in force. There is nothing to do with being in conflict with the Constitution; they are all the reasons that have been sought!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-16_U172	Thank you very much, Mr Nestor. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, we must vote through the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put the following question to the vote: who is in favour of the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice? Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 20 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. Dear Riigikogu! As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, pursuant to § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Social Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the medicine law into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Our agenda is exhausted and the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 12.16 p.m.
