ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! Interrupt the presence check. Ladies and gentlemen, please let us do our presence check again. 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U2	Let's start with the first question. Please, Mr Simson, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question concerns a large, nationally planned real estate project. It has become known to the public as a project of the Super Ministry, where the Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and Communications, Internal Affairs and Social Affairs is planned to be concentrated. When it was said a year ago that a second tower would be built next to the Ministry of Finance building in Tallinn and the old building would be renovated, there has been news recently that the building of the Ministry of Finance is going to be demolished and a twin tower constructed. According to the initial plan, it will cost EUR 20 to 25 million. Which sources are planned to finance the project, and why is it not possible to renovate the old building?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U4	Thank you. I don't think I'm a very big construction expert. I can tell you what I've read and what I've been told. It is very reasonable to concentrate the four ministries you mentioned in a new building, which could be located in the current location of the Ministry of Finance. One of the four ministries' locations, one of the complex's locations, significantly saves the space used. This savings are mainly due to the synergies to be achieved, as certain areas for joint action will meet the needs of all four ministries. In the current premises where the four ministries are located, the use of space is not effective. There is much room for effective use and, unfortunately, all this must be paid for by the taxpayer. Energy savings are also expected to be at least 50% in the new house. It's the kind of thing that's really hard to get when you fix an old house. However, if repairs could achieve 50% or even 70% energy savings according to some plans, the efficiency of the use of the premises cannot be increased, as the spatial distribution has already been determined in the past in this building. Therefore, the experts of Riigi Kinnisvara AS have found it useful to build a new building complex.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! Can you confirm that there is a plan to move to a new super ministry building in 2016? You didn't answer my first question about where this investment comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U7	Thank you. The construction of the new building is planned by Riigi Kinnisvara AS and the investment should also come from Riigi Kinnisvara AS. What are the time limits for construction and the time limits for tendering, which I find quite impossible to comment on. At present it is a design, the project has been submitted for public consultation. What leads to the discussions about when the project will be completed and when it will be possible to organise a public procurement to find the builder, which I, as Prime Minister, find very difficult to predict at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! I understand that, despite the Architects' Association's proposal to maintain the existing building of the Ministry of Finance, you would rather support the construction of a new building instead. The current building of the Ministry of Finance was built in 1977. If we set aside Mustamäe, which was built in 1963, we will see that the government encourages apartment owners to renovate Mustamäe houses. Is it not strange that it is pointless to renovate the Ministry of Finance building built in 1977, while the owners of the apartment are advised of something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U10	Thank you. The owners of the apartments probably have specific calculations that confirm that it is not reasonable to demolish the apartment building, but it is reasonable to heat and renovate it. But I have been familiar with the analysis of the Ministry of Finance, which confirms that building a new building in the Ministry is more useful than repairing an old building. First of all, the spatial distribution has been determined by the architecture of the current building, and it is not possible to adapt it to modern needs at any low cost. Secondly, energy saving issues. Measures such as those taken in the insulation of an apartment building to obtain the necessary effect cannot be taken for this building. I don't think I'm a construction expert to judge the tests we've done. I can simply trust what Riigi Kinnisvara AS has claimed, and it has claimed it not only for me but also for the public. The calculations confirm that, in financial terms and in terms of utility, it is more reasonable to build a new building instead of repairing an old building.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. Starts with Tarmo Griefingham.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U12	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Surely, in addition to any physical savings, staff savings can also be saved. Have you considered that perhaps one superminister would be enough for this one house, because one master is still one master?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U13	I do not consider the merger of ministries to be appropriate in today's Estonia. If the ministries are not merged, then the dream of a superminister is probably not very appropriate either. Estonia is among the Member States of the European Union one of the countries with the lowest number of ministries. The merger of ministries does not in itself result in financial savings. The merger of ministries may lead to closer cooperation between entities, but the merger of ministries does not necessarily mean that the number of officials is decreasing. I do not think that it is possible to radically reduce the number of employees of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs or other ministries moving into one house.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U14	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the spot, Mr Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U15	Thank you. But where does it come from, what kind of investment does money come from for such a big construction? For example, it was acknowledged that the construction of a new house for national broadcasting would be cheaper than the old one, but it was decided to do the opposite. (I do not support the construction of this new house.) But where does that money come from now? We see how we're missing money at every end. Wages are below the figures, long-term unemployment is increasing, cuts are not taken down, poverty is about a quarter of the population and the average pension is falling. Does it make sense to come up with such a project now or in the near future? Perhaps it would be more appropriate to invest in human resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U16	Thank you. I don't want to make this very difficult. I stress once again the energy saving argument. If energy use in the new house is twice as effective, which means that heat bills are reduced by at least 50%, but according to some calculations even by 70%, then the peasant's mind says that the sooner the raging is stopped, the better. It's pure money saving. Where does the money come from for construction? First of all, this is the investment of Riigi Kinnisvara AS. Riigi Kinnisvara AS can sell the buildings currently available to several ministries. Ultimately, the issue is not only that space use improves in terms of surface area, but also that, despite the smaller number of square meters, certain possibilities are created. Once again, it has to be said that it is not the great expenditures that are to be feared, but the small incomes that are to be feared. If the project is cost-effective and well-considered, investments must be made and the pointless waste stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Last summer I was able to visit several smaller rural areas and municipalities. The problem was that the police and social welfare sectors are unfortunately working apart, the exchange of information is incomplete and cooperation is lacking. It must be said that social workers generally serve the territory of one local government, but the police, as a national system, serve a much larger region. At the same time, it is all very much about the same risk groups, people with similar problems. Cooperation would probably prevent many crimes and accidents. Hence my question: do you personally consider such a situation to be satisfactory or should something be taken to a new level in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U20	Thank you for a good question. I don't think the situation is satisfactory. It is quite clear that the functioning of cooperation between authorities is key to a number of social malpractices. Let this be the case, for example, with the violence of a close relationship, which has also been discussed quite several times in this Chamber. The effective cooperation between police, social workers, local government and victim support workers is essential for close-up violence. Unfortunately, there are households in Estonia where there has been not only one case of relationship violence, but there have been quite a few. The Social Welfare Act provides for an obligation to respond to such cases; the police must immediately inform people working in the social field when it comes to particularly serious cases of close relationship violence involving children, for example. However, it has to be said that in many municipalities there is no child welfare specialist; in a good case, there may be one social worker. Quite a number of Estonian municipalities are small. In this respect, too, the disunity of the Estonian authorities emerges. There are strong municipalities, but there are a significant number of municipalities that are unable to respond adequately or adequately to a number of malpractices in society and community. Finally, the police have provided much more information to the municipalities this year. The question, of course, is what will be done with these information messages and how will work with troubled households.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U21	Please, Mr Anvelt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I'll go on from here. Can you give a quick overview of how many existing agreements (except, of course, the Social Welfare Act) such cooperation and exchange of information with either the local government or the Ministry of Social Affairs, for example, in the Ministry of the Interior or in the institutions of its administration? Or has this matter been discussed in discussions with the Minister for Regional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U23	Thank you for your question. I'm a little more specific about the statistics that show how the police transmit information to local authorities about cases of close-relation violence. In the first half of 2011, almost 400 cases were reported to local authorities. This figure increased by 50% in the first half of this year, with some 600 notifications being sent during that period. It is clear that the number of cases of registered close relationship violence has also increased. One reason for this may be that the victims have started to trust the country more. The state, or law enforcement authorities, will be able to respond more adequately to these very delicate cases, as is the case with close-up violence as a whole. This has also led to an increase in the number of registered cases. This mainly concerns physical abuse (§ 121 of the Penal Code), as well as threats (§ 120). There's a lot of forms of cooperation. The Police and Border Guard Board is here in close contact with the so-called cooperation network, especially with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the social workers of rural governments, and certainly with the workers of victim support and women's shelters. Only in September, a few days ago, representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior met. It was agreed to set up a working group focusing on the development of common principles to assist victims of close-relationship violence and to prevent cases of close-relationship violence. The Police and Border Guard Board has also planned several information days with employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs, victim support and women's shelters. Cooperation models have also been updated to reach the most problematic households.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U24	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! It's all ideally beautiful, of course. But one of my last meetings was held at a social assistance centre in Central Estonia, which is located in a county centre where there is also a police station. The people of these two institutions, neither managers nor employees, have virtually met each other over the years. But both of them knew who they were dealing with. Hence my question: do you not think that it is necessary to bring this problem, as they say, from a personal level to a national level, to regulate in some way and, as you said yourself, to achieve serious prevention of close-relationship violence?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U26	Thank you very much. I dare correct you to the point that the picture isn't pretty at all. I gave a brief overview of the steps taken. But there's a lot to do. As far as near-relationship violence is concerned, I think some results have only begun to emerge in recent years. I think that the most important thing is building trust between the victims of close-relationship violence and the state, between the victims of close-relationship violence and the social workers of local authorities and representatives of victim support. This takes time. It will take a long time to build trust, and it will be shattered very quickly. This is an inevitably time-consuming process. The creation of the system is extremely important, and reducing disparities across Estonia is very important. As I said, in my opinion, local governments' inequality is also a problem in many respects. There are strong self-governments who are able to reach such very delicate and disruptive problems in the private sphere of people; they are also able to identify more problematic households. Let us not forget that according to 2011 statistics, 70% of the motive for killings and murders was actually taking place in the private sphere: domestic strife, quite a few cases of drinking, which ended extremely tragically. This shows that we have a lot to do, but we have to consider that this is a private sphere. It is not possible to get involved in this; it must be done very sensitively, well thought out and with a unified system. An individual approach that is specific to community-centred police and self-government work is key here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U27	Now two issues registered on the spot. Starts with colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U28	Thank you. Honourable Minister of the Interior! As the issue concerns law enforcement authorities and local authorities, if you will allow me to expand this subject a little bit and to touch a little bit on the issue of the municipality of Lohusuu. It was only yesterday that there was a very long story in Postimees where the parish elder complained that he suffered enormously from pressure and psychoterror under pressure from the so-called Peipsi Fish King (you know, of whom we are talking about), and the parish is losing even a small amount of money because a very large amount of money is being demanded from the small municipality. We also remember that the IRL has, in the past, captured many of the characters we call the underworld characters, criminals. There was a pretty long list of them, there's been a lot of them. I am asking you: hasn't you, as Minister of the Interior, taken an interest in this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U29	The issue is the cooperation of law enforcement authorities with social workers in local governments. We have also dealt with the violence in the relationship. If you are aware of an offence or possible offence falling within the definition of close relationship violence, I think you will definitely report it and the legal guardians will respond to it in cooperation with the local authorities. If we are talking about another nuance concerning this question of Question Time, I think it should be stressed that the resources used by the state to prevent close relationship violence are never too many, they could always be increased. I can also say here that there is a specific authority in every precinct that is working precisely on the coordinating work that I emphasised at the beginning. Violence in the immediate relationship cannot be eradicated only by the police or the municipality or by relying solely on victim support or other social measures. Here it is necessary to link all forces together and to ensure that there are fewer cases of close-relationship violence so that the problems of individual households can be solved. In many ways, close-relationship violence is a reflection of problems that have their causes and origins elsewhere. This is one of the types of crime that bring together the softer and stronger side. The police have recently considerably increased their efforts to understand the operating mechanisms of other agencies and have also tried to meet the social sphere, precisely in order to achieve results. There is no result alone here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U30	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Kalev Eagle.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, We came here together to recognise that we are not satisfied with the current situation in cooperation between social workers and the police. Does the Ministry of the Interior intend to come up with any specific legislative initiative to start this cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U32	Thank you for your question. The Social Welfare Act, which has already been mentioned here, quite specifically mentions the cases of close relationship violence where it is mandatory to inform the social worker of the local government. These have been very specifically mentioned. I am not the person who believes that cooperation can somehow be imposed regulatoryly. Cooperation is rather due to the perception that we want to achieve results from the administration of the authorities and also from officials. The result in this case is a reduction in the number of cases of close relationship violence, certainly also a reduction in the tragic consequences of close relationship violence (i have already referred, for example, to a strong link with killings and murders). In order to achieve this, the relevant authorities must ask how they can be "leaders," how to build this cooperation on both sides. If the police have problems with the number of cases of close-up violence, then for municipalities and local social workers, these households will certainly pose problems in other areas as well. It is a joint effort that should lead to the building and strengthening of this form of cooperation. With the regulations, with the country's command boards, I don't think we're gonna get very far. We already have a certain legal framework. I would rather ask how, within the current framework, we can apply the law better than we have done so far. Second, the question may be whether the law is really preventing us from building cooperation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U34	The next question is Mr Tammelt, Minister of Finance, for Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U35	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Starting next year, the tax exemption for the land under home will apply, which will mean a loss of revenue for local authorities. In what way has the Government of the Republic decided to compensate local authorities for the loss of income, and does this compensation mechanism ensure that no government's income is reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U36	Thank you. As has been said many times in this Chamber, it is intended to compensate municipalities by increasing their share of income tax. The scheme is structured in such a way that the possibility of someone's income being reduced is minimal, but to rule out this possibility only at an extraordinarily expensive price. The state and the municipality, of course, are not so different and incoherent that this change should be fully compensated, because citizens live in local governments, their well-being is also important for local governments. In general, such deviations have been minimised so that something can become a burden on some municipalities, but the scheme itself is sufficiently, say, full of opportunities. After all, the municipal authorities do not have the same tax coefficients in place so that we can guarantee that nothing will change.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U37	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U38	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Finance! You could also say an increase in this percentage of income tax. As we know, next year's state budget is in deficit. As Minister of Finance, would you have supported the implementation of this law now and what is the cost of this law to the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U39	Thank you. The draft could be dealt with in a normal format. Since this bill has been handed over to the Riigikogu according to my information, it would be nice if we talked about the details during this procedure. My current knowledge or memory is that this percentage turns from 11.4 to 11.57. There's more nuances. Speaking of state budget expenditure: compensation amounts to just over 10 million euros in the first year and over 13 million euros in the second year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U40	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U41	Thank you. It is said that the implementation and administration of this law will cost about EUR 1 million. Is that true?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U42	I don't know. One reason is that there is indeed a need to deal with the information system and registers. But this is a very cumbersome change from the point of view of administration, I must admit that. Ever since home doesn't have a legal definition. For example, registers are structured in a different way. What exactly is a home that is a rural unit, a home, for example, located on one rural unit, etc.? There are also property and rental relationships that make it more difficult. So anyway, it's not cheap, I assure you. But if all the steps in ordering up the registers are necessary only for the sake of this bill, I dare not say that. This is likely to be of wider use.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U43	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U44	Thank you. Minister of Finance! The exemption from the tax on the land under home is legalised in the Riigikogu. But now there are signals that the government is looking for austerity points and wants to extend this land tax exemption to state land. This, however, hurts the municipalities. However, this loss of land tax revenue is not intended to compensate the municipalities. Could you specify which state land will no longer be subject to land tax, whether it is only for land under ministries, or whether it includes land under museums, state forests and polygons? How much do municipalities lose with this planned land tax exemption?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U45	Thank you. I have no text of this law ahead of me. This format is not at all comfortable with a draft to discuss nuances. But we have taken the view that it is indeed public authorities, not everything that belongs to the state. For example, this exemption is not granted for assets belonging to Riigi Kinnisvara AS. There is, in fact, an additional nuance, because it is a public limited company. The logic was, however, due to the fact that the political idea could be applied fairly. When this matter was analysed by municipalities, it was not difficult to note that some municipalities used this change as a pretext for raising the tax anywhere other than the so-called "homeland'. It was a political step. At the same time, this was an additional burden on the country, which had promised to pay for this game. We measured it both ways. Somewhere in that state-owned land tax exemption we stayed. In the Land Tax Act, too, the logic which should then pay this land tax is already in place in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U46	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U47	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! At the end of May, the European Commission adopted recommendations on budgetary measures and economic reforms. A separate document was also made specifically for Estonia. There, a number of problems were brought to the attention. Among other things, changes were requested in the parental benefit system, the long-term unemployment of young people, etc. The Commission specifically pointed out that the abolition of land tax reduces the possibility of increasing budget revenue (this formulation was longer). We are usually accustomed to implementing European proposals more or less. How do we view this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U48	Thank you. Very nice of you to remind me of that. I had forgotten that it was a subject that was ever addressed. What can I say? I have already agreed with the European Commission. I usually agree with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U49	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U50	The next question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U51	Thank you. Prime Minister! The needs of children are known to be different. Some people want to play sports, some people want to eat up. Before this EUR 10 was calculated, were there studies on the needs of children? This so-called "need-based child benefit" might be more appropriate to call it a special case of income support for families with children. We are talking about ten euros based on the possibilities of the state budget. By the way, ten euros compensates for three packs of dumplings and two pairs of socks per month. Please explain what you mean by necessity!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U52	Thank you. I do not agree with your approach to child support as regards the equal treatment of children. I understand that you consider equal treatment when each child receives an equal amount of child benefit. You will find that when an equal amount is paid to everyone, all children's needs are equally covered. There is no way to agree with this, because families have very different lives. It would make sense, with the money collected from taxpayers, to support those who are in urgent need of state aid in particular. In 2011, about 7500 households with children received income support in Estonia, and there were about 13,000 children in these households. The additional, needs-based child benefit offered by the Reform Party would affect around 50000 children. But it also depends on the proportion of children living in relative poverty, maybe it concerns 40,000, but maybe 65,000 children. As I said, in 2011, 13 000 children belonged to households receiving income support. On average, these households received this benefit for six months. About 23% of all households with children receiving income support received income support throughout the year and 14% received income support for only one month. But time has run out, I will continue this reasoning by answering your next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U53	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U54	Thank you. I hope that you will also answer my first question by answering this question. However, an additional allowance aimed at reducing poverty cannot, according to our legislation, be child support, since the National Family Benefits Act aims to partially compensate for the costs of raising, caring and studying children. I repeat: the aim is to partially compensate for children's costs and not to help children living in poverty. Thus, child support is already needs-based, because families with children have greater needs and if there are no children of a certain age, there will be no family benefits. My question is this: why did you not say at the outset that what you are coming up with is not a reform of child support, but an increase in the subsistence allowance for families with children in need?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U55	Thank you. It's a shame I didn't finish my line of thought in the last two minutes. But I hope you remembered that over the past year, 13000 children in 7500 households received income support and on average 13000 children in households received income support for six months a year. If we reduce the number of recipients of income support over the whole year, we can see that there are around 6500 recipients of income support throughout the year. As I mentioned earlier, needs-based child support, this supplement can be granted to as many as 65,000 children. One in ten is the recipient of income support. Therefore, your claim that this is simply some kind of extension of income support is not correct. There are only a tenth of the beneficiaries of income support. I do not fully understand this enormous scepticism about the necessity of this. If you look at the statistics on family allowances in the Member States of the European Union, you will see that Estonia stands out as very special among the other Member States. Yes, two other countries are like Estonia. The share of need-based family benefits in Estonia is 0.000%. This share is exactly the same in Luxembourg. Cyprus is quite slightly different from Estonia and Luxembourg in terms of needs-based support. There, the share of needs-based support in GDP is 0.001%. I do not think that we should be so special that we do not want to learn from any other Europe at all. If the proportion of needs-based support in most EU Member States is significantly higher than zero, then we could also follow this example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U56	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U57	Thank you. Prime Minister! More than 63000 children live on the poverty line or in deep poverty in Estonia, and 40% of them live in a single-parent family. A parent raising a child alone is usually a mother; there are few exceptions to this rule. Has the impact of "need-based child support" been studied and analysed from a gender perspective? Who do you think's going to go to our country to ask for this alms, whether it's women or men? Does such a system have a good effect on men's self-confidence and self-confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U58	Thank you. There is no point in asking a question to which you do not expect an answer. Each person knows that in a single - parent family, this single parent usually has a mother. There are single dads, but there's a lot less of them than single moms. But I do not agree with your attitude towards state subsidies. No one has to consider state subsidies to be a gift of any kind. When a country is asked for support, no one, not even a socialist politician, has to consider it a request for alms. If the State has established laws and regulatory acts under which certain citizens are entitled to state support, this is their legal right. These people should not be humiliated or scolded in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U59	Now the questions registered on the spot. Starts with my colleague Urve Palo.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U60	Despite the fact that the Social Democrats have repeatedly proposed to the government to triple child support that remained at the same level for nearly ten years, the government has not supported this idea. Now the Reform Party has come up with a reverse plan to raise, somewhat, child support for children living below relative poverty. This means that the vast majority of 250000 children will have to continue to accept the EUR 19 contribution per month. In particular, needs-based child support is also implemented by Greece and other southern European countries. This means that the child's family must fall into poverty before the country starts supporting the raising of the child. This has led to a situation where the birth rate in these countries is almost twice as low as in the Nordic countries supporting all children. My question to you is this: why do you want Estonia to have the same fate and why do you start making Estonia into Greece?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U61	My dear ma'am! The proposal to triple whatever level of support is very noble but relatively irresponsible. It would be counterproductive to propose a thirty-fold rate of support, but in that case we would soon be in a much deeper crisis than any country in the European Union is at present. Increasing the level of support is a sure way of crisis. If we have a limited amount of funds, or taxpayers' money, it is responsible to use those resources that have been entrusted to the State in the most efficient way. We have thoroughly analysed a number of options for supporting children. As a result of the analyses, we have found that the needs-based child support offered by the Reform Party is the most effective use of taxpayers' money, which is the fairest option.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U62	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U63	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Despite the atmosphere that prevails in this Chamber, the people of Estonia understand, to a large extent, that there is no escape from needs-based subsidies, and that is right and good. I simply ask: Where does objective and adequate information come from, whether a family or a child needs needs need-based support, whether or not it qualifies? The people of Estonia are very resourceful. We remember the initiatives of Eiki Nestor a year ago, when the entire population of South Estonia turned out to be disabled people, and we also know the situation in Tallinn, where 12 families have been registered in one apartment to get the child to school in the city centre. Is it in vain to rely on human sincerity and honesty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U64	I believe in the sincerity and honesty of an Estonian person. At the same time, people's initiative is usually welcome, but in order for this initiative not to grow too freely, the legislator must set very clear limits on applying for subsidies so that taxpayers' money is actually used effectively. We have offered the limit of relative poverty as a criterion for obtaining this additional child benefit. Relative poverty is defined in the same way across Europe, i.e. 60% of the median income in that country. Each year it is a fixed amount expressed in euro. Everyone who qualifies has the right to apply for this supplementary child benefit. But I will also say in response to Urve Palo's question that child benefit is also paid on an ad hoc basis in those countries where the standard of living is much higher than in Estonia. In the European Union, child benefit is paid on a need-based basis in as many as eight countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U65	I would like to ask you now for the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lember.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U66	Thank you. After the last questioner, it's good to keep going. I am interested in the administration of this measure. As early as next summer, this measure will be implemented. I understand that at the moment, it is still being discussed that the local authority assesses the necessity. Here are the variants that are done either once a month, once a quarter, or maybe once a year. But since this is already the subject of the next financial year, is it also intended to take into account how much additional administrative costs this entails and is it intended to compensate the municipalities in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U67	Thank you. I will start at the end of the question: of course, the additional costs incurred by the municipalities must be compensated. If we manage to manage the administration of income support, we will certainly be able to manage the need-based administration of child support, because, as we know, the administration of income support is much more complicated than the administration of needs-based child support. When applying for income support, the applicant must provide documentation on the income of family members and the expenses incurred in certain areas. When applying for child benefit, only income must be declared, no expenditure needs to be declared. I therefore consider it a much easier task to administer child support based on needs than to administer income support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U68	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U69	The last question is from my colleague, Priit Toobal, to Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! An article was recently published in the Estonian Express entitled "Participants' financier is waiting for the Estonian Academy of Defence to move to its site." The article described how Priit Kotkas, a businessman operating in Ida-Virumaa, actively works to ensure that the Academy of Interior moves to the land of its development project. The author of the story asks if there is a coincidence that after receiving sponsor support from Priit Kotkas, the Reform Party and IRL started to support the move of the Academy of Interior to Ida-Virumaa. I wouldn't ask that. Instead, I'm asking about the internal defence academy units in Pirita, Muraste and Paikuse. These are all areas of great value for real estate development. Does the Ministry of the Interior plan to exchange the plot of Priit Kotkas in Ida-Virumaa for these three plots, to do a kind of land exchange?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U71	Thank you for your question. I think the honourable questioner has got something very wrong. The location of the National Defence Academy has been dealt with for quite several years. As we know, the Cabinet decided in 2007 that Muraste could become the seat of the National Defence Academy. In 2011, the coalition agreement included the possibility of considering Ida-Viru County as the location of the Academy of Internal Defence. That's what we do. The IRL has shaped its position. Our position is that it is important, for security reasons as well as regional policy reasons, to take the Estonian Academy of Defence to Ida-Virumaa, primarily because there is more Estonian state in this region. My own hope and belief is that it will create a 'domino effect' in a good sense and other developments, possible investments and economic recovery in Ida-Viru County as a whole, following this example, because it would be a very important object for the Estonian state and certainly also an important investment. Preparations and analysis are underway. We're preparing a public inquiry to explain the possible location of the National Defence Academy. We have read a number of offers in the media, and today there is a press request that the Academy of Home Affairs be located in one particular place in Ida-Viru County, but they are all just wishes. I find it extremely pleasant that there is more and more of these desires. People in Ida-Virumaa, as well as entrepreneurs, have a clear desire for this step to be taken. IRL's view is that it could bring great benefits to Ida-Viru County and contribute to the security of the Republic of Estonia as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U72	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U73	Thank you. Since you didn't actually answer my question, I'm going to make your life easier and ask the same question again, but in a slightly different way. Can you assure us and are you sure that you or any of your party associates have not promised Priit Eagles after moving to East Viru County at the Academy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U74	What do you think such a promise would look like? I'll explain to you a little bit how the process works in cooperation with Riigi Kinnisvara AS. Riigi Kinnisvara AS is our main partner. The Ministry of the Interior plans to transfer all its real estate to Riigi Kinnisvara AS, as the government, even several governments have agreed in the past. We are preparing a public inquiry that is answered and on the basis of which those who wish to do so submit tenders. Of course, the best will be chosen. No one can or has given anyone any assurance that the National Defence Academy could be located in one place or another, as there is currently no final decision by the Government Office on where the new internal Defence Academy complex, hopefully to be built, will be located. Currently, the Academy of Internal Defence is known to be located in a number of places. He's using 60,000 square meters, which is obviously too much. We have already achieved a significant reduction in this volume in the analysis, and this work will continue. So this whole process is pretty basic. Certain views have been shaped. I have presented to you the position on which I am based: the opinion of the IRL Group is that the Academy of Home Affairs should be taken to Ida-Virumaa. But it's going to take quite a while to make the final decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U75	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U76	Thank you. In April of this year, your home party announced a patriotic decision or your group's position that the Academy of Home Affairs should be taken to Ida-Viru County. It is known, however, that already at the end of last year a detailed plan was established for Priit Kotkas plot for the National Defence Academy. If it was so certain, why didn't your party report it earlier? Can't this be an IRL building scandal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U77	Thank you for your question. I'm afraid the confusion in your thoughts and questions will only increase. I've been trying to make certain arrangements with my answers in this confusion and maybe to clarify a little bit. I will repeat very briefly. The possible new location of the National Defence Academy depends, of course, on financial resources as well. We hope that we will find this money with the new financial perspective of the European Union, which will open in 2014. This is an important investment. The task that we have before us is, above all, to specify the possible need for space. In addition to all of this, a high-quality learning environment must certainly not be affected. If the final decision is that the National Defence Academy is moving to some place in Ida-Virumaa, then we must ensure that the faculty would like to be in this learning environment, and that the environment must also be pleasant for students. The economic situation of Ida-Virumaa and the security policy interests of the Republic of Estonia must be won, but professional training and, of course, further career opportunities in law enforcement bodies of persons studying at the Academy of Internal Defence must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U78	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. As Question Time is coming to an end, I will stop dealing with this issue. Many thanks to the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions! I would like to thank the members of the government and the Prime Minister for answering the questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U79	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the first Wednesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U80	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, the draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act, the content of which, to put it briefly, concerns the possibility of submitting an application for state legal aid in Russian as well. This law allows it to be done in two languages, Estonian and English, unfortunately not in Russian. In the spring, I submitted an inquiry with the same content to the Minister and received an answer from the legal pharmacies that will solve this problem, but a small study showed that this is not the case. We also have cities where there is no legal pharmacy, even if there is a courthouse in the city. We all know very well that the last census showed that the native language of every third Estonian citizen is Russian, and unfortunately, not everyone has yet learned the Estonian language in such a way as to fill the flawlessness of this application in Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U81	Thank you. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U82	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of my group, I will refer the inquiry to Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. The subject is price increases and pensions. As we all know, according to Eurostat, the fastest increase in food prices in the European Union has been in Estonia, and has been in a few years. For example, food prices in the European Union increased by 3.2% on average in 2011, while food prices in Estonia increased by 8.5%. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi said that our income growth has still been faster than the rise in prices. At the same time, Statistics Estonia published data in August which showed that the average pension was actually falling. For example, in 2011, the average pension was EUR 270,6 per month, which is EUR 1.1 less than a year earlier. Before last year, the average pension last fell in 2000 - the Mart Laar government. It cannot therefore be said that incomes have increased faster than prices. People whose only source of income is ordinary pensions all live in relative poverty and need urgent state aid. We have a number of questions, including whether an average pension below the minimum wage is sufficient to make a living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U83	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. If the draft law complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days, and if an inquiry complies with the law, I will forward it to the addressee immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the following messages: The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, initiated on 10 September, Committee on Monetary Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft Act on the Approval of Annex 9 to the International Convention on the Harmonization of the Conditions of Border Control of Goods, launched on 10 September, Committee on Economic Affairs; thirdly, in the Estonian Central Party. a Draft Act amending the State Family Benefits Act, Employment Contracts Act and Parental Benefits Act, initiated on 11 September, Committee on Social Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has approved Kaja Kallas as Chairman of the Economic Committee and Urve Palo as Deputy Chairman of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. Dear members of the Riigikogu, today, after the plenary session, there will be the formation of an Estonian-Slovenian parliamentary group in the Chamber. The team is convened by Mart Nutt. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U84	Let's go to today's agenda. We have a very important point to discuss. This is the second reading of the draft Act concerning the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Member States of the European Union) and the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I would like to ask Mr Imre Sooääre, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U85	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, If you paraphrase a minister, it is an extremely good draft and probably one of the longest-named drafts in the history of the Riigikogu. The more countries join the European Union, the longer the titles of the relevant draft ratifications will be. I am talking about the title because it is slightly different today from what was at first reading, but the difference is only linguistic. I'm getting to that. Thus, the first reading of Bill 221 took place in this Chamber of the Riigikogu on 15 May this year. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 29 May. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft again on 5 June 2012 when consensual procedural decisions were taken. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered that, before the final vote, the Commission should discuss the subject of enlargement of the European Union more widely and discuss where Estonia is currently in the whole accession process, what are our wishes and prospects for the future and what is currently happening in the candidate countries. The state of enlargement of the European Union and the future of the debate were held in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 10 September. Kati Kiisverk, Adviser to the Department of European and Transatlantic Cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Renna Unt, the head of desk, were invited to give a very thorough overview of the enlargement process of the European Union, not only in the context of Croatia, but more generally. When I very briefly refer to what was said, I would remind you that Estonia, as I recall, went along with the fifth round of enlargement in 2004. The sixth enlargement took place in 2007 when Bulgaria and Romania joined. We are now working on the debate on the seventh enlargement, which concerns Croatia. Accession negotiations are still ongoing between the candidate countries Iceland, Montenegro and Turkey. The candidate countries are Macedonia and Serbia and potential candidates are Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. The state of play of all candidate countries was thoroughly discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Who cares, this information is available in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but since it does not concern today's draft, I would not dwell on it. As stated at the beginning, the Committee on Foreign Affairs made only linguistic changes to the draft, which improved the Estonian language. In the title, we changed a few words to better comply with the Estonian language rules. There were no changes in substance. We also added a reference to European Union legislation on enlargement. There are no other changes to the draft. The Commission also considered that, as the title changed, it should be treated as an amendment. However, as the content does not change, the joint decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was that there was no need to formalise it as an amendment, which can only be seen as a linguistic change. The Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following procedural decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 12 September; to propose to the plenary that the second reading be closed and the draft be adopted as a law; and to appoint a speaker as a rapporteur. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U86	Thank you very much, Mr Sooäär. You have questions too. Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U87	Good waitress! Is the Croatian state's accounting understanding and financial policy looking south or north?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U88	Thank you, Tarmo, for a very good question. About the same question I put in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the advisors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are certain criteria by which we can determine whether a candidate country is ready or not to join all its processes. The one thing we can decide on is whether they look north or south, as you did. In fact, we do not have any sources other than the European Commission's report. The European Commission will monitor the candidate countries both before and after accession. It will be analysed for six-month periods, with the last European Commission report from 25 April 2012, the next one should come in the autumn. On the basis of this report, it is not possible to assess the accounting creativity of candidates, but it is possible to assess how national legislation and other standards have been brought into line with what the European Union envisages for accession. We remember how much Estonia struggled in 2003 to become a member of the European Union in 2004 and, of course, we now want to know whether current and future joiners are also tightening their belts to join this club, or whether we will have to find out some accounting concessions or some statistical schemes that are known to have been made in the past for some countries. Officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that since the accession of Greece, to which you probably referred, the requirements for countries have been considerably tightened up. This also applied to Estonia, not to mention present and future members. Experience has probably been learned, and the European Commission takes all kinds of concessions very seriously and does not allow them. The report of 25 April lists a number of tasks for Croatia that they will have to address by the beginning of next year. If they don't, maybe their merger will be canceled. I also spoke to the Ambassador of the Republic of Estonia in Budapest today. We do not have an ambassador in Croatia, and Priit Pallum is dealing with Croatia in Budapest. I asked him if there was any last-minute advice. He, our official representative, believes that Croatia's accession process is entirely legal and sees no reason why Estonia should hold it back in any way. Looks like they're gonna get their problems over by the beginning of next year. Of course, some countries have not yet ratified this Treaty; they have not yet had time to do so. If you are interested, so far Slovakia, Hungary, Italy, Bulgaria, Malta, Croatia, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Cyprus and Austria have ratified the agreement. The rest will do so in the second half of this year or at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U89	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U90	Good waitress! Are you convincing us on the basis of reports and contract materials, or have you also had the opportunity to make sure that Croatia is ready for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U91	Good questioner! I have to admit that I have really been to Croatia, not recently, but a few years ago. They seemed to be on their way to the European Union. This is, of course, the question of the assessment of how prepared Croatia is. But a few years ago, when I was there, it seemed that they were making an effort and that their desire to become part of the European Union was obvious from the airport, where all the relevant linguistic changes had been made, so that people coming from the European Union could get information in the languages of the European Union, not to mention catering places where, of course, the menus were not in all the languages of the European Union, but in Italian and English. Croatia has the highest number of Italians. We must now decide whether or not Estonia will ratify this Treaty. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, as has been said, supports ratification by consensus. We hope that Croatia will take this as a small credit for trust that we have given and take it seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U92	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U93	Having visited Croatia several times, I can only personally approve of their accession. But what would happen if, for some reason, Estonia did not ratify the Treaty today? What would be the legal consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U94	Good questioner! If we did not ratify it today, we would probably come back to it at some point. We can discuss this process again in the Riigikogu. Of course, it would give a certain signal to other countries that have already ratified the Treaty, as well as to those who have not yet ratified it. It would tell them what Estonia thinks about the matter. Whether we want to send this signal is the decision of this House. However, as has been said, the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not see any reason not to grant Croatia a credit guarantee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U95	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U96	Good waitress! After all, the European Union is, you could say, in a small crisis, perhaps seeking its identity. I'm sure he'll find it. I believe that the European Union should rather continue as a union and not as a community of states. Was it also under discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that suddenly, as a small and wise country of the European Union and exemplary in its financial discipline, it would be wise for us to advise Croatia that perhaps it is not right to enter this association before the European Union makes it clear to itself what it really is? Maybe afterwards the Croatians will be unhappy and disappointed and ask why you didn't tell us that we joined a completely different alliance when we thought we were going to join?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U97	Thank you for a good question. In fact, as much information as I have, Estonia does. We advise Croatia on a number of issues. There are our companies looking for a market in Croatia that provide advisory services there, including our shipping companies, transport companies, IT companies. In fact, we already share our experience and know-how with Croatia, and I hope that it will be well received there. If Estonia ratifies Croatia's accession agreement, hopefully it will allow our companies to discover even more of the new market in Croatia. It is probably because of the fact that our market is opening up to a region that is known to be ravaged by wars that Estonia would benefit most from this accession, and that we will be able to distribute European values to the values that we believe in and for which we have joined the European Union. We hope that what Estonia thinks about the matter will be lantern or lighthouse light for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U98	Please, my colleague Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U99	Good waitress! I, too, am a very large supporter of Croatia's accession, but I would like to look forward to a few years. I would look at the time when Croatia is already a member of the European Union and faces two of the following decisions: accession to the Schengen and the Eurozone. Looking at Croatia's preparations now, what is the impression: when can it be prepared for these two next steps? I would like to highlight a few points in this regard. As far as joining the euro area is concerned, we are expected to try to avoid the situations that have arisen in the old countries of the European Union, particularly the southern ones. Many conditions are not met in these countries, but in the new Member States. Is Croatia already fulfilling these conditions? Secondly, when it comes to joining Schengen, very difficult questions arise. Croatia has an extremely long border, especially with Bosnia. How is Croatia prepared to transpose the Schengen acquis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U100	The convenient answer would, of course, be that the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs did not discuss this issue so thoroughly. But I'll let you know what I think. This is in the context of the same information which the Committee on Foreign Affairs received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which assesses Croatia's position a little more widely, not just in the context of accession. These issues, which you, a good colleague, have pointed out here, are Schengen-related border problems, i.e. the brothel management dealt with by Frontex, and the other issues you touched on are very hard nuts for them. Looking ahead to what happens to Schengen, what happens to the euro, etc., it seems that Croatia needs to do quite a lot of work to meet the requirements of the European Union in the accession report that they are already referring to. There are also major problems with the judiciary. In particular, the European Commission has highlighted issues relating to the sustainability of the human resources of the judiciary. Judges change very often, the appointment of judges does not satisfy the European Union. Some of these shortcomings need to be addressed in Croatia's accession negotiations before the first quarter of 2013. They will hardly be able to do all of this quickly and immediately to comply with the Schengen and Eurozone criteria. At the same time, as much as is needed to join the European Union, they will have to be fixed by the beginning of 2013. Obviously, some Member States are currently waiting for a new European Commission report to come in October or early November, which will deal more specifically with the issues that were left open in the report of 25 April and which were given to Croatia as homework. Once these things are done, there will probably be a greater wave of ratification in other Member States at the end of this year. This second report is probably expected. That is why I have called our ambassador today to ask if we have any reason to wait for the report that will come in a month. He doesn't think it's necessary. He is quite well aware of Croatia's position when he resides in Budapest, and he believes that this country has so far fulfilled its promises. If Croatia wants the rest of the European Union to ratify this Treaty, it must try to meet all the relevant conditions this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U101	Please, Mr Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U102	Good waitress! Croatia is probably currently using the European Union's so-called pre-structural instruments for various kinds of harmonisation, etc. Did the Commission have any information and did you also discuss how Croatia is dealing with the advisability and feasibility of using this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U103	The Committee on Foreign Affairs does not have a more detailed overview of how such money is used. We only know as much as the European Commission's report talks about this, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs specifically ordered it to look at these issues in the face as well. I have read this report in depth and that they have misused pre-accession subsidies or that there are major deviations in this area, although it is not seen. Rather, it is the legal problems that are being accused of issues relating to human rights and the prosecution of war criminals that are being blamed on Croatia. I did not find any complaints about the use of pre-accession European subsidies in the report. It's unfortunately the only document I can rely on. We do not have a direct representative in Croatia. A more thorough analysis is needed to provide an exhaustive response.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U104	Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U105	Good waitress! You compared this process a little with Greece and said that after Greece's accession, the European Union and the Commission have become more cautious. In fact, a more relevant comparison would be with Bulgaria and Romania, which were also granted certain merger credits. It is now bitterly regretted by both, including the European Commission. My question is: what happens if we ratify the Treaty and some others too, but Croatia still does not fulfil its promises next year and does not live within the limits of this credit limit, as they have promised? Is it possible, then, to reverse the whole process?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U106	That's a good question! This was also discussed by the Commission. First of all, the answer to the first part of your question, where there was a reference to Greece. Greece is a direct line in the enlargement process of the European Union, as the requirements for the admission of new members to the European Union have been strengthened since Greece and Ireland joined. An important watershed arose after the accession of Greece, Ireland and Portugal. Estonia already met stricter requirements in the fifth round of enlargement; we received the European Union under stricter conditions than Greece. Since then, at least for Bulgaria and Romania, no major concessions have been made in comparing the differences between the fourth and fifth enlargement rounds. I am just thinking of tightening up the requirements. Now the question is whether Croatia can stay on course and what happens if it does not. Of course, all the same processes apply to other Member States. I am thinking of the European judicial system and the penalty mechanisms for Member States to be faced with certain fines if they fail to comply with their laws and other regulations. The same thing happens when we have a sugar fine case on the agenda, and similar fines have been imposed on other countries. Then the settlement will begin in court and the price caps will be placed on how much one or the other deviation from the norm is in the context of the European Union and how much the country will have to pay the fine. There's no other system in my mind. Otherwise, the rest of the Member States should come together and exclude the sinner from the Union, but there has been no precedent so far. It is still going through the European judicial system, where sanctions are imposed on countries for non-compliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U107	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U108	Good waitress! I would like to persist a little bit, because I have to vote and my vote can only be based on what the Committee on Foreign Affairs thinks is the highest competence body for me on these issues. Has the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the situation in the European Union today? In fact, the new recruits are pushing into what's to be denied. Even Turkey would like to come, and perhaps in the end we will also accept Russia. My question is: does Estonia firmly believe that anyone who wants to come is welcome to the European Union? After all, we ourselves are not really trying to pinch a finger at anyone, so listen, there is no fooling around here, the European Union is already a troubled community, and it is only the top-room countries that can come here. What is the official position of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs regarding the enlargement of the European Union? How far can this process go?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U109	There has been no direct statement or vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this particular subject. How the Committee on Foreign Affairs would vote on this issue, so I cannot answer. However, I can say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has so far unanimously supported the foreign policy of the Estonian state, which means that we are open to the enlargement of the European Union if those countries wishing to join this club fulfil at least the same strict requirements that we have had to meet. We believe that with enlargement, our market will expand and that Europe will be stronger in this way. This has so far been the so-called philosophical basis for the decisions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, if you could say so. But of course, nor would the Committee on Foreign Affairs otherwise have asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take this view of all enlargement, still to face the process and to see whether we are on the right track. So far, we have supported the enlargement of the European Union, we have seen no reason not to do so. What could be the prospects for the next candidate countries? Will they take joining the European Union as seriously as we did in 2003? That is, of course, a question for them. If they take this step as seriously as we do, I would think that the Committee on Foreign Affairs would support enlargement. But before voting on it, the issue specifically raised by you should be discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U110	Please, Mr Aas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U111	Good waitress, please refresh our memory: when will Croatia's representatives get their positions in the European Parliament and in the European Commission? And how much could they be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U112	What volume? I'm sorry, could you be more specific? I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U113	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U114	How many places does Croatia get in the Euro Parliament and in what year? And in the same way, the Commissioner's seat in the European Commission has been agreed on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U115	In particular, this issue was not discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But I believe the answer can be found in the same 500-page document that is on the table in front of you. If you take some time, you'll find it there, and if you don't, we can ask about it. In particular, we did not go into this detail in the Commission. But the principles of subsidiarity and equal representation apply to all Member States. These are general formulas that apply to everyone. Representation is determined on the basis of specific formulas that take into account population numbers, etc. There is no reason to believe that there are any exceptions to Croatia, for example, that they will have more or less seats in the Euro Parliament. Its representation shall also be determined by the exact same formulas as those applicable to all Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U116	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U117	Dear waitress, The accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is an important issue and, of course, has been on the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Has the Committee on Foreign Affairs also asked for the position of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs? If it isn't, are you going to do it? If not, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U118	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has not directly sought their opinion. The bill has passed the first reading. All the committees are represented in the large Chamber, all the committees have the opportunity to act on each draft and, if these committees considered it necessary to intervene in the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, they would have done so. I think they're responsible enough. In its discussions, the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not find any reason to address other Riigikogu committees specifically on this draft. It is about dealing with another foreign treaty; there have been many in the Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U119	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U120	Honourable waitress! I, too, have visited Croatia as part of a state visit and talked to the officials there. It is a very polite and good country. But here's the question. In your report, you mentioned that there are already Italian food menus out in Croatia. Croatia is known as the destination country for tourism. Do you know how the Italian tourism sector, for example, takes this step? Do they think that this could mean added value in the form of the expansion of the tourism sector in the European Union as a whole, or are they afraid that competition will increase and that it could jeopardise the Italian tourism market?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U121	Good questioner! The Italian issue is, in fact, a very important issue. Italy has shown the greatest interest in the accession negotiations, particularly in the case of Croatia, as Italy has significant investments in shipbuilding and real estate, as well as in the tourism industry. Tourists visiting the coast of Croatia are predominantly Italians, and it is Italians who dominate the Croatian tourism landscape. I think that's why the Italians' interests are at stake either way. Several of the precepts given to Croatia have, in my opinion, been based more on the interest of the Italians, as Italy's investments are at stake in Croatia. The Italians have invested a lot in it. When it comes to menus, price lists, etc., it is precisely because it is in Italian and English that many Italians do not speak English. The two major issues that are currently in the air are issues related to the privatisation of Croatian shipbuilding. It is likely that Italian interests are also at stake, as Italian shipbuilders are quite active in Croatia. This is certainly related to the tourism industry, where cruise ships are also built. So, apparently, Italy is one of the key players in the whole accession process in Croatia. This country would probably benefit most from this, as their interests in terms of investment are most at stake.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U122	Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U123	Thank you. Good waitress...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U124	Someone's cell phone's ringing. Please turn off your cell phone!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U125	Let's keep going. Please, Mr Randpere, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U126	Here's my second question. Do you, Imre, perhaps to know whether any of those countries that have not yet ratified the Treaty have a decisive negative opinion or doubt?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U127	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has not received any information that some of these countries are in doubt. As has already been said, probably many large countries, such as France, Poland, Sweden and the United Kingdom, are looking forward to this new report, which should come next month. But our ambassador doesn't think there should be any anomalies in this report. In fact, after publication of this report, these countries are expected to give their 'yes' word in the ratification process.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U128	Okay, let's try this one more time. Please, Mr Väino Linde! [[The mike's dripping.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U129	Can you change the place, Mr. Linde?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U130	I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U131	Unfortunately, there's some kind of problem. If Mr Väino Linde forgives this technical error, there will be no further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sooäär. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to open negotiations. I see that Mr Pomerants wants to say his word.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U132	President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Dear coalition partners from the Reform Party! I hope Imre has given you very good and substantive answers. I call on you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-12_U133	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Since there are no amendments to this bill, we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting in the final vote on draft Act 221 on the ratification of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Member States of the European Union) and the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Please vote! 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 2.43 p.m.
