ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! We will begin the sixth Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Heimar Lenk, the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! We are turning in to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Centre Party Group's inquiry. We have a number of questions about this kind of demonstrations and piques and demonstrations, or what do you call them? The time period. How does the Prime Minister intend to communicate with this part of the Estonian people who are not satisfied with the current life and who are planning to come to the streets with slogans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U3	I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Now to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry to the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur about members of the Riigikogu. Good fellows, we're conducting a presence check! 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U4	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. We have one item on the agenda, which is the 2011 Implementation Report of the 'Principles of Estonian Security Policy until 2015'. The rapporteur is Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. Allow me, before we start listening to this, to brief you on the procedure for dealing with this item. First, the presentation by the Minister of the Interior is up to 30 minutes, then the questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After the round of questions, there are, as usual, negotiations involving political group representatives. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please! Ken-Marti Vaher, please! A procedural question, Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U5	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Since it was so loud in the hall, I didn't really hear how long it was for the main report?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U6	The main report is due to our Home and Working Procedures Act for up to 30 minutes. But I will make it clear that the President may, in agreement with the rapporteur, extend this period in accordance with § 67. Well, I don't see any more procedural questions. Please, let's honor the waitress and those who want to hear this presentation! Please, good Minister of the Interior, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to give you today an overview of the implementation of Estonia's security policy towards 2015 in 2011 and of the most important developments in the field of internal security in the last year. Unlike in previous years, both the Yearbook on Security Policy and today's...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U8	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. There is one great possibility that we will be quieter and respect the waitress and our companions. There is another great opportunity: the President will take a break so that you can talk your stories, and after that you can proceed with the sitting. I'm asking that we choose this first chance! I'm asking for silence in the hall! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U9	Thank you very much. Unlike the previous years, both the Yearbook on Security Policy and my presentation today will cover the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior in addition to the main lines of security policy. These are our lines of action not only last year, but also this year and next year. Here's my review by sector. First, the chapter on security. This first slide before you, which I am happy to share with you in advance, shows a generally positive trend, a trend towards a reduction in the number of abnormal deaths in Estonia. The very brief summary of this slide, as you can see, is the trend that started in 1994 until last year. Compared to the mid-1990s, we are currently saving 1,000 more lives in Estonia on average because of the reduction in unnatural deaths per year. Now the most important trends in crime in 2011. According to the statistics of the Ministry of Justice, in 2011 42567 crimes were registered in Estonia, which is 5700 crimes, i.e. 12% less than in 2010. It is positive that the number of thefts decreased by 20%, the number of unauthorised invadings by 22% and the number of abductions by 12%. At the same time, the number of cases of physical abuse increased by 11% in 2011, which is the most common type of crime. In terms of numbers, domestic closeness violence has increased the most. This is certainly a matter that must not be neglected. At the same time, it proves that the prosecutor's office and the police are paying increasing attention to this problem, which has encouraged victims and their loved ones to seek help from law enforcement authorities. Kills and murders were recorded almost 19% more in 2011 than in 2010, while they remained at 2008 and 2009. The largest proportion of cases registered in 2011 are domestic slaughters, which are generally committed in the course of disputes arising from the use of alcohol in common. The analysis shows that 44% of cases (in 2010 almost 50%) have been challenged to the same address in the past. These have been disturbances of peace, drunkenness, physical abuse, and so on. There is also a clear link between alcohol consumption and acts of violence. In all these cases, there are deep social-personal reasons that can only be resolved if we contribute to community-centred security in cooperation with institutions, local authorities and the community. The fifth slide is about drug crimes. It is quite clear that one of the major safety hazards in Estonia is still drugs. Drug crime is a very effective part of organised crime. International criminal organisations make the biggest profit from drug trafficking, accounting for nearly 20% of all crimes committed and providing half of the total revenue of international organised crime. In Estonia, 967 people have died from drug use in the last ten years, 104 in 2010 and 123 in 2011. Last year, more drug offences were registered, large quantities of drug treatment increased from 691 to 745. The handling of small quantities of drugs has decreased, but the number of drug offences has increased considerably. Anti-drug activity naturally requires cooperation between public authorities. I consider it very important that we reach the roots of drug-related problems together, and drug action is certainly one of the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior and mine. As Minister of the Interior, my aim is to strengthen the fight against corruption in Estonia. Corruption is a difficult hide-and-seek activity, the success of which depends on the attention and financial resources that we place in it. In autumn, the government gave the Defence Police the authority to investigate corruption cases also in public and state-owned or state-based legal entities, i.e. the Defence Police's competence was extended. On 1 September, however, the Central Criminal Police established a central corruption investigation office aimed at pooling our best knowledge and significantly improving our capacity to detect corruption in local governments other than the six largest municipalities in Estonia. In order to ensure Estonia's statehood and ensure the unity of the population, it is important to reduce the number of stateless people. This is reflected in the next slide before you, which shows the number of persons of undefined nationality and its trend from 1992 until today. As a result of active communication, the number of stateless people fell below 100000 for the first time last year, and this consistent citizenship policy will continue this year. Next, I'm going to the safer traffic chapter. As the next slide before you confirms, the number of road deaths has been steadily decreasing since 2002 as a result of the work of active traffic surveillance. However, compared to 2010, which was an extraordinary year in Estonia, last year the number of drivers intoxicated increased by 10% and the number of people killed in traffic increased by 21%. However, it is also known that Sweden, a country with the lowest number of road fatalities in the world, experienced a similar trend: last year the number of road deaths in Sweden increased by 18%. However, it is clear that the 2011 figures confirm that road safety needs our constant attention. However, despite the exceptionally positive results of 2010, we can conclude that the 2011 figures did not exceed the three-year statistical average, which the experts consider important for assessing the current trend and the impact of the overall measures launched by the State. The volume of traffic surveillance did not decrease in 2011. For example, last year, as compared to 2010, surveillance activities aimed at apprehending drunken drivers increased considerably, to 63% in particular. Catching traffic offences increased by 5% in 2011. The area of influence of the speed cameras on Tallinn and Pärnu highway was also increased last year, and this year ten cameras will also be located on the Tallinn road to Narva. At the beginning of this year, a traffic office, consisting of a traffic inspection service and a traffic processing service, also started operations at the Police and Border Guard Board. This year, solutions will also be found that will allow the police to reduce the time needed to enter data into procedures and databases and to be more effective in monitoring. This means extending the possibilities of the e-police. We are working on this on a daily basis to adopt innovative solutions in this area. Punishment law provides for the possibility, for the first time since the beginning of this year, of assigning community service as a substitute punishment in criminal proceedings in addition to criminal cases. In many countries, the use of community service as an alternative sanction is very common, and it is most commonly applied to traffic offences and crimes against property. Chapter 3 talks about a more fire-proof environment and fewer accidents. There were still about 15,000 fires in Estonia in 2006, and last year there were 6321 fires. We have gone through the biggest drop in the number of deaths in Europe, although the tragic fire at Haapsalu's early childhood home was overshadowed by the beginning of 2011. The number of fires has been reduced, above all, by increasing public safety awareness as part of prevention and, of course, by improving monitoring. In 2009, the smoke detector became mandatory, which according to the latest study existed last year in 94% of the living quarters. As you can see from the picture, this is a drastic change in people's attitudes. If that percentage was another 25 in 2007, i.e. the smoke detector was only a quarter of the homes, we can now talk about the absolute majority. In November 2011, the requirement that only quick-spinning cigarettes can be sold throughout the European Union entered into force. Fires that have just started from reckless smoking in Estonia have claimed the highest number of victims. Last year, the Rescue Board was also active in preventing drowning deaths. We have tried to raise people's awareness and highlight everyone's responsibility in preventing accidents. As you can see, 2010 was a tragic year in Estonia: 91 drowning deaths. Last summer, I first convened a round table for alcohol producers, as well as a round table for retailers, to involve the private sector in the safety campaign. The first companies participated in the water safety campaign already last summer. This year, regular cooperation is likely to continue already in more campaigns and with the participation of more and more companies, which means that we are also going to use a resource that has not been available much so far. Above all, we want to raise people's awareness and disseminate prevention information. Last year, thought-out prevention and communication helped to reduce the number of drowning deaths to 56, which is the lowest figure in the last 20 years. Chapter 4 is entitled 'Protecting property'. Theft was the type of crime with the biggest fall last year: 5078 cases were reported less, or 20% less, theft than in 2010. For several years in a row, the number of robberies has also decreased by 17.5% in 2010, while the number of abductions has decreased by 12.4% in 2011. The heavier, or gun - and masked robberies, have also decreased. Cybercrime, which knows no borders, is an increasing threat to property. In this way, the growth of cybercrime can only be contained by streamlining international cooperation. A good example comes from 8 November last year when, as a result of years of cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board's Criminal Police Department, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Institute of Forensics, the FBI, NASA and the U.S. Prosecutor's Office, people suspected of extensive computer fraud and money laundering were detained during a major operation. This case has been referred to as the biggest cybercrime detection case in history so far. For me, the success of our country in confiscating the proceeds of crime is clearly an important priority. Although the confiscation of the proceeds of crime has been considered important in Estonia since 2005, it was amazing that only three officials were practically involved in detecting the proceeds of crime in the police until the end of last year. As you can see from the slide, there are also arrests in criminal cases, seizures to ensure confiscation. In order to significantly increase the criminal detection capacity, the Central Criminal Police (CCP) established in 2011 a central unit for the detection of proceeds of crime, with the task of identifying and confiscating, together with other investigative authorities, the proceeds of crime. By the beginning of 2012, the team of this unit has grown to 10 and we will definitely continue to strengthen this unit. Additional financial resources have also been allocated for 2012 to make an important qualitative step forward in the field of proceeds from crime. Chapter five is 'A safer country'. I.D. first. The documentation of people in Estonia has taken place in waves. The next wave is expected to expire at the same time as documents with a 10-year validity period and a 5-year validity period. In 2011, preparations began to cope with the exponential increase in the number of applications for identity documents. From 1 February 2011, mobile identity cards with a state guarantee will be issued in Estonia. For the first time in the world, mobile ID could be used in last year's Riigikogu elections. The introduction of mobile ID facilitates identification in the e-environment, improves access to e-services and creates more convenient conditions for doing so. Further on from asylum seekers. The number of asylum applications submitted to Estonia has increased since joining the Schengen area. During 2001-2008, Estonia was asked for asylum for 7 to 14 persons per year, while in 2011 a total of 67 first asylum applications were submitted to Estonia. However, Estonia is still the country with the lowest number of asylum applications throughout the European Union compared to other Member States. Six projects were completed last year with the support of the European Refugee Fund, which helped to improve the quality of asylum procedures, reception conditions for asylum seekers and public awareness of asylum issues. Now for illegal immigration. In the European Union, it is estimated that there are two to four million illegal immigrants, only 10% of whom have crossed the European Union's external borders illegally. Most have entered the European Union legally but remained here longer than the period of stay authorised by a visa or residence permit. In 2011, 82 cases of illegal immigration (61 similar cases in 2010) and 132 illegal immigrants were detected in Estonia. In 2010, the latter number was 109. According to the countries of origin, Russian citizens were most detained for illegal border crossings, 21, 18 and 16 citizens of the Democratic Republic of Congo. The most effective measure to prevent illegal immigration is, of course, cooperation with the countries of origin of illegal immigration. In 2011, bilateral Implementation Protocols to the Readmission Agreement were signed with the Russian Federation and Serbia, and the Implementing Protocol was proposed for Georgia. The European Return Fund supported the return of the citizens of 53 countries in 2011. Go on with the residence permits. Every Member State of the European Union is obliged to ensure that its immigration policy is responsible and does not impose burdens on other Member States. That is why Estonia needs to amend the law, which would also solve in a comprehensive way the problems of misuse of residence permits that occurred last year. The Ministry of the Interior has prepared a draft amending the Aliens Act, which specifies the conditions for granting temporary residence permits. We sent this draft to the coordination circle on 17 February this year. Now for integrated border management. In 2011 integrated border management contributed in particular to the development of the European Union's external borders, international cooperation and the abolition of border queues. The volume of international cooperation has increased from year to year, is contributing to joint operations between the Member States of the European Union on the surveillance of external borders and coordinated by Frontex, and participates in training organised for the implementation of rapid response teams in the field of border guards. On 1 August 2011, a common electronic information system for waiting queues for border crossings was introduced at the eastern border of Estonia to alleviate the border queues that had been a source of pain for years. If, before, i.e. at least in the previous ten years, the driver of the truck had to wait three to seven days on the road, in particular on the road to Tallinn, then now the waiting time is usually two to five hours near the border crossing point when the reservation service is used. Road safety has also significantly improved with the abolition of long truck queues. An innovative solution such as a common electronic information system has also attracted attention abroad, including in Finland, which is a model for us in many things. Latvians and Lithuanians have also been interested in our e-booking system for border crossings. An important keyword last year was the safe introduction of the euro into Estonia. In 2011, our internal security authorities received the historic task of bringing the euro safely to Estonia and also ensuring further transport of money in Estonia. It was the longest security operation in time, which has been organised in Estonia over time. The entire operation was conducted at a high level and without incident. One keyword last year was definitely the creation of an IT agency. In 2011, the first steps were taken to create an IT agency in Tallinn. The preparations are on schedule. This summer the office should start work in Tallinn and so far everything has progressed amazingly on schedule. The selection of staff takes place in the European Commission, with three competitions in progress. Chapter six is Faster Help. We're talking about increasing our rescue capabilities. The current network of national rescue commandos with historical features and roots in Estonia does not take into account the demographic and economic changes that have taken place in society. The Rescue Board therefore carried out an in-depth analysis of the rescue service model in 2011. The aim of the amendments is to bring national rescue teams together in regions with the largest population and risk concentration and to support and develop a voluntary rescue area in parallel. After the restructuring, as you can see from the slide, 121000 Estonian residents will receive more lifesaving service within 1 to 15 minutes. The number of life-saving commandos is increasing from 41 to 66 so far, increasing the number of people covered by the life-saving service to almost 95%. The entire rescue management system has also been reviewed to ensure a clear division of responsibility and avoid duplication. The changes to the management system are reflected in particular in the new Rescue Board structure, which entered into force on 1 January. The transition to a single emergency number is certainly a topical keyword. In 2010 and 2011, calls could be answered in normal circumstances for a maximum of 15 seconds, with 90% of calls responding in 10 seconds. A satisfaction study carried out in 2011 shows that 91% of people assessed the work of the Alert Centre and the handling of emergency reports as positive. On 1 January 2012, the PSAP became an independent government body within the remit of the Ministry of Interior. The biggest development in the field of work of the PSAP is the connection of the Prefectures' control centres and the transition to the single emergency number 112. The changeover is expected to end in 2014, after which 112 can be called to call the police, rescuers and ambulances. The keyword in the field of international cooperation in 2011 was definitely EU CREMEX. That was 16/20. cooperation with the largest civil structure in the history of Estonia, organised by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which was held up to date with chemical and radiation emergencies, extensive evacuation and hostage crisis. In order to improve international cooperation, the Police and Border Guard Board organised the "Clean Sea 2011' international pollution response exercise in 2011 and also participated in the international exercise "Balex Delta 2011'. Seventh: a better security policy. First of all, the involvement of volunteers in security. The involvement of the community in ensuring security is a very important priority, because not just the state, but all Estonians have an invaluable role to play in ensuring security. So far, the involvement of Estonian volunteers in ensuring internal security will be repeated down to those European countries that we should measure. It is also going to change this decisively. The Rescue Act, which entered into force on 1 September 2010, first established a regulation allowing volunteers to act independently under the direction of a rescue officer. For the first time since the restoration of independence, the number of voluntary commandos exceeded the number of national commandos in 2011. As of December, there were 81 national rescue commandos and 85 volunteer rescue commandos in Estonia, bringing together a total of 1109 volunteers. At the end of last year, there are also volunteer coordinators in the Rescue Board and in all emergency centres who are 100% committed to supporting and encouraging volunteering. In 2010, the Riigikogu passed a new Act on Assistant Police Officers, which also gives auxiliary police officers the first power to act independently in Estonia. In the second half of last year, the positions of coordinator of volunteering were also established in the Police and Border Guard Board and in the prefectures. In 2011 there were 1468 auxiliary police officers at the Police and Border Guard Board who contributed nearly 60,000 hours to internal security. And the last issue, but certainly not the least, is prevention policy, which has already been mentioned, but still. In addition to what has been said, I repeat: it is never possible to overestimate the importance of prevention. The damage caused by the order shall not cease to exist. We can always only try to make amends, but it is estimated that any euro contributed to prevention can save up to 10 euros. For example, in 2011, the Police and Border Guard Board was developed and from the beginning of 2012 a model for displaying patrols based on analysis of offences will be implemented, helping to plan the work of patrol teams. The purpose of the model is to predict the time and place of future offences that could take place, enabling the police to be proactively present and prevent the commission of criminal offences. But, of course, it is clear that all individuals, the third sector, municipalities and public authorities must contribute to security. Only then can we make Estonia safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U10	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U11	Thank you. Dear waitress, In the area of security, I would also block national security. Yesterday, as it turns out, the Aleksei Dressen case was revealed in the name of another CPO employee who spied in favour of a foreign country. Is there anything you can add to the information we've had as MPs yesterday? I also have a specific question: Was it an accident, or was it so timed that the operation, which lasted for many years, was completed the day before the anniversary of the Republic, or the great feast?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U12	Thank you very much for your question. I think neither the D.A.'s office nor the D.A.P.D. had definitely timed it to happen before the Republic's anniversary. Such cases are very complicated, very difficult. No country is actually protected from them, not even the great powers of the world. This was a long-term operation that is decided by Estonian criminal authorities, which are the prosecutor's office and the defence police. They assess the risks, assess the risks. I believe that the decision to carry out the arrest a few days before the anniversary of the Republic was due to the ripening of the facts, and on this basis, it was decided to take this step. I very much hope that the criminal proceedings that have been initiated will be completed within the shortest possible time. But we all remember about the same Herman Simm case, and we know that such cases are far from easy. They are far from easy even after detection, taking evidence and pre-trial investigation. We have to wait for the verdict, then we can move on. It is also important to learn from this lesson. I'm sure the D.A.'s office and the D.A.P.D. have put a lot on their ears in these two days, and they will certainly continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U13	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U14	Thank you. We are certainly all very concerned about the number of road fatalities and the fact that this has increased well last year. At the same time, we saw that there was a very, very large decline between 2007 and 2008. I remember Jüri Pihl was a minister then. He was the type of person who talked relatively little, but did a lot of things. What do you think was his key that he was able to reduce the number of accidents of this kind? Maybe we could take over some of his methods.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U15	Thank you very much for the question. It's very difficult for me to imagine the Minister of the Interior directing traffic on the street. A strategic vision, starting with the Ministry, is very important to ensure that prevention and also influence policies are effective in traffic. As we have already spoken in response to these questions, there are some nuances about traffic. Firstly, road safety as a whole depends on very different factors. Traffic surveillance, which is a direct task for the police, is estimated by experts to be dependent on 10 to 25% of traffic. I think that prevention policy has been the most important factor in reducing road deaths. People's awareness has increased. Three or four years ago, based on facts and arguments, significantly more attention was paid to the use of safety belts and safety equipment at all. Five or six years ago, the use of security equipment in Estonia was not considered so important, so directly related to road deaths. However, when the facts proved that most people who died in traffic did not use security equipment, the attitude of traffic supervision also changed. Security was demanded much more rigorously, sanctions became more severe. But alongside sanctions, I believe that prevention, which is known to be led by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications through the Road Administration, has been very important. This concerns the use of retro-reflectors and safety belts, etc. It has certainly been important to work against drunken driving. That is what we must continue in any case. As you have seen from the slides, this trend has begun to move down nicely. But there will be spikes, not all the years are the same, not brothers or sisters. I think that our good Scandinavian role models, which have indeed achieved outstanding results, have certainly not been able to do so in five years. It's more like a couple of generations. Sweden is the country with the lowest road deaths rate in the world, yet it increased by almost one fifth in 2011. Why have I told you about the three-year average comparative data? Because experts generally consider it more appropriate to compare three-year averages. The individual years are far from comparable, so it is more important to look at the overall trend, the general trend and, of course, the relationship between the different target groups and the different traffic offences.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U16	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation, you referred, among other things, to the issue of residence permits. I would like to say that, despite the scandal that exploded last year, residence permits for the management of a company or for the work of a member of the management body are not, by their very nature, bad things that should be avoided or should not be issued at all. The media has also talked about the risk that the issue of residence permits will now be screwed up, in other words very close and bureaucratic ex-ante controls will be applied, which could hinder their issuance and, ultimately, the promotion of the economy. A clear alternative would be to use effective ex-ante controls instead of ex-ante controls, i.e. not to hinder economic development, but still to screen out potential abusers. Which option do you prefer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U18	Thank you for your question. These options are not alternatives at all; both effective ex-ante controls and effective ex-post controls must be implemented. As you know, due to the lack of requirements under the current law, misuses in granting a residence permit to work as a member of the management body in 2011 have been significant. In my opinion, the requirements need to be tightened up. At the same time, we must, of course, find a balance. No one's turning off the taps. I don't like stories about any extremes at all. The aim is to find a balance: on the one hand, to prevent misuse, on the other hand, to help promote the Estonian economy, to attract investment here and not to create unjustified obstacles to bringing skilled labour here. Working as a board member on your question also means bringing the trustees here in order to protect the investment made by a third country person on the territory of Estonia. The aim is to strike a balance. But we'll probably get in a very good atmosphere, and why not discuss the amendments to the Aliens Act in a heated debate very soon in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U19	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U20	Thank you, manager. Good minister! In 2011, the number of road fatalities increased dramatically and you identified alcohol as one of the main reasons. I ask: is it really justified that the police patrolling the street will be replaced by cameras?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U21	Police on the street aren't replaced with cameras. The traffic cameras you are probably referring to are really being installed in additional locations this year, for example on the Narva highway in Tallinn. They are primarily aimed at calming traffic, preventing violations. I think prevention is very important. People are slowing down, they know that it is not possible to speed Estonia's main roads without limit. This can prevent the deaths of many people, and it is likely that the number of road deaths has decreased in recent years. As far as the issue of alcohol is concerned, as I mentioned in my report, the measures aimed at detecting alcohol increased by 63% in 2011. This, in my opinion, is a significant contribution to reducing the damage caused by alcohol consumption in traffic and even in the public space at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U22	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have lived a large part of my conscious life in Võrumaa, and so life has often forced me to drive. I have seen one thing and one thing on the road, and that is what my question is about. Robert Lepikson, the former Minister of the Interior, brought the police who loved to measure speed just behind the trees and bushes out of there. Indeed, it was noted that speed began to be measured in traffic - threatening places, such as schools and kindergartens. Now I'm saying that the police have returned to the bushes and trees, except for one place in Põltsamaa, where the tree behind which they liked to hide was taken down. But in Adavere, for example, where there's a school across the street, I've never seen a cop before. Nor do I see them measuring the speed of Ardus, where there is a guest house. I can see them on my way out of Tallinn, where the best road conditions are. My question: have you not thought of following the instructions of the former Minister of the Interior?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U24	Thank you for your question. However, I assume that the general attitude of the police when measuring speed on the roads is exactly what you want, perhaps it will be done in public. Personally, I have been exposed to public traffic speed measurement, whether by major highways or in the heart of settlements. Yeah, I remember that long-time debate, when the traffic police were strongly criticized for hiding behind the bushes when they tried to catch the speeders. I have realised that in the overall working culture of the traffic police, it has been accepted for many years, precisely as you think it is right. But the concrete examples you have given must certainly be checked to determine what practice has been in regulating traffic in these places or measuring speed and whether there are risky places. Maybe there's a different way of monitoring.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U25	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U26	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In your review, I see another sad number that has characterised Estonia for years. This is the number of facts on the handling of small quantities of narcotic drugs. At the same time, we see a quite large increase in drug deaths. The limited detection of the handling of these small quantities concerns dealership. It's dealt with in nightclubs, schools, somewhere behind the corner, where dealers often buy garbage. I'm sure it's directly addicted to drug deaths. From this question, what does the decline in this area mean for nearly three years? Has it been a conscious policy, or is it because of a lack of resources or something else in the third?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U27	Thank you for your question. However, I think it is important that the number of serious drug offences detected has increased. Since Estonia started defining priorities at government level in the fight against crime, serious drug crime has been one of the main priorities. I can assure you that the chain of responsibility of the DEA, as well as the work processes, is perhaps best designed to focus attention and resources on the core, i.e. the drug barons, the peaks of organised drug crime. Of course, we understand that there are also smaller dealers and there are drug users, but in my opinion, the clear priority is to hit drug barons first and then the other ones along the chain. I think that the decision taken in 2004 by the Riigikogu to increase the penalties for drug crimes is certainly also behind this attitude. As you know, Estonia is one of these European Union countries, if my memory is not deceived, then one of the eight European Union countries, where life imprisonment is foreseen for the most serious drug crimes. I think it's had an impact on the drug crime here. As far as drug deaths are concerned, yes, the slide I showed you is also my concern. There have been waves of cheap and extremely effective drug entry in Estonia, which, in my opinion, have caused the yank years on the slide that I showed you. White Chinese, white Persians, etc., or synthetic drugs, which have unfortunately grown in Europe, have come to the market in Estonia. It is said that one new synthetic drug is discovered every day in Europe and, in fact, Europe's problem is perhaps not so long-known imported drugs coming from different locations, such as opium derivatives from Afghanistan, cocaine from South America and hashish from Africa, but synthetic drugs. In other words, the European continent has actually become a producer. This is an increasing problem and Estonia is far from intact. We, too, have the most common drugs. However, I can assure you that I will pay great attention to drug crime and to reducing it, and we will soon take quite concrete steps to unite the authorities in this fight. There are a lot of authorities that are affected from social to educational and awareness-raising.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U28	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Your presentation today bore such keywords as unity, co-operation, solution-centredness, purposefulness. I assumed you'd have an interesting, airy and hopeful presentation. But unfortunately, you were largely confined to statistical data. If you look at all these slides, 2011 will be like the year when our entire security policy ends, no definite goal has been set. Thus, we do not see in the report what Estonia's goals are in 2015 where we want to be by 2020 and so on. In particular, however, I also ask about the drug issue. You have confirmed that this is your priority and you will be dealing with it in concrete terms. When you answered the previous speaker, you said that we were starting to produce drugs ourselves. Would you be more specific about what's going on right now? Who is cooperating with, and what are the measures to address the problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U30	If you unveil the publication Security Policy 2012, you will see that there are two general elements. The first part talks about the priorities of security policy, and it has tried very precisely to dismantle seven priorities, the main direction which was not only in force last year, when I was already a minister, but also in force this year and in the coming years. I'm sure you'll read these clear goals out of here. The purpose of this report, which is to be submitted to Parliament every year, is to present a report on the implementation of the objectives of the previous year. This concerns a security policy which has been approved for a longer period and the objectives of which have been defined by Parliament. As far as drug crimes are concerned, in my opinion, the Estonian criminal authorities have been taking very concrete and money-covered steps for quite a number of years. As an example of serious drug crime, ten years ago, the penal policy was remarkably different than it is now. Perhaps you will remember the debates about the fact that sanctions were imposed in the Estonian judicial system for the handling and mediation of large quantities of drugs for a maximum period of four to five years, and even so in a good case. There was a great deal of publicly justified resentment. We are now talking about sanctions for serious drug crimes ranging from 15 to 20 years. This is a very serious signal to drug dealers who think that there is a considerable amount of money lying on the ground somewhere in the drug world, all they have to do is bow down and pick it up, whether it is a small or larger drug deal. This is no longer the case in Estonia. Punishment policy has changed, prevention policy has changed. At the same time, we certainly have a serious problem with drug addicts. In Estonia, according to various data, about 1% of the population are addicted to drugs. It's about 15,000 people. This is a serious problem that goes back years. There are no simple and overnight solutions here, but all this work, in many ways under the direction of the Ministry of Social Affairs, be it substitution treatment, whether it is the rehabilitation of addiction, be it the work in prisons, is, in my opinion, aimed at a wide range of measures so that we can reduce the number of drug deaths. But more importantly, we keep young people out of drug dealing. Of course, the educational message and the general increase in awareness in society are very important in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U31	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Volunteering is very important, and so is the legal environment in which volunteers deliver. As we know, we have an environment in which to create and operate a voluntary sea rescue. The current draft defines a voluntary maritime rescue area and area within very exactly the same boundaries as the border guard. Do you not think that a voluntary maritime rescue could be better delivered if its area of operation was not limited to border water bodies, but also operated on other public water bodies, being more closely associated with the Rescue Board? Perhaps this broader approach would allow voluntary maritime rescues to operate more effectively?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U33	Thank you for your question. I think this is an issue that we can deal with calmly during the procedure for this draft. At present, the draft really limits the competences of volunteers to the waters of the border, particularly in terms of the competences that the Police and Border Guard Board has, but if there are arguments for extending the area of competence, we will discuss. There is no need to worry about the fact that, in the case of inland waterways, volunteering is far from being implemented. It won't go unimplemented! Of course, cooperation between the various parties is necessary here too, and the Rescue Board will certainly not be away from this cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U34	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U35	Thank you. Good Minister of the Interior! There is a beautiful Estonian passport on your security policy brochure. And you once again rejoiced with the delegates, announcing that last year the number of stateless persons in Estonia fell below 100,000. At the same time, you did not mention the worrying fact that the number of citizens of the Russian Federation in Estonia has increased beyond the number of non-citizens. If you look at the trend, the main reason why the number of non-citizens is decreasing is not to enter Estonian citizenship, as this picture suggests, but rather to become a citizen of the Russian Federation. In the light of these facts: how do you assess the effectiveness of Estonian naturalisation policy in recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U36	Thank you for your question. I believe that Estonian citizenship policy has been consistent and on very solid grounds. I think these grounds are justified. But your argument is not quite correct in the sense that the greatest reduction in the number of stateless persons is the reaper. Yes, death. Taking Estonian citizenship and taking Russian citizenship is quite proportionate. I think that the Estonian citizenship policy has been thought out and proven to be in every way possible. A person has a free choice as to what nationality he takes. Of course, as a state, we can give our signal and confidence to the people that it is reasonable to make a decision in favour of Estonian citizenship. However, other agents will certainly play a role, particularly in the case of those who are significantly more influential in the Russian Federation. I am thinking, above all, of the information room, the information that the eastern neighbour is very comprehensively providing, and I would also say aggressively transmitting. The people in this information room are likely to be tempted to take the citizenship of our eastern neighbour and that is clearly justified. This is, of course, shown by statistics. I think that the main objective is to reduce the number of stateless persons, and in this respect there is a trend towards a reduction. I believe in the citizenship policy that we have in the Citizenship Act. And the government coalition also agreed in its 2011 agreement that we would not change the principles of citizenship policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U37	Please, Mr Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of the Interior! My concern is about the very same rescue teams in sparsely populated areas. While previous studies have been carried out to show that the capacity of the professional rescue teams around them should be able to cover these areas, this is not possible in time. The problem is, unfortunately, a volunteer commando doesn't grow up quickly enough in a place like this. Now they're trying to find solutions afterwards, but there's a certain mismatch here. In time and spatially, these two, or then professional and volunteer commandos, do not switch smoothly. That's a concern that should have been taken into account when the rescue squads were shut down. Would you like to comment on that with a few sentences?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U39	Voluntary salvation, as I said this week on this very speaker's desk, does not come easily from the experience of the Rescue Board to places where there is a kind of professional unsolicited rescue command. People mistakenly believe, purely based on emotions, that in this case they might speed up the elimination of a professional rescue command on the ground. But we do understand that the existence of an unparalleled rescue team means only apparent security. The fire-extinguishing capability, which is capable of being provided by a good voluntary rescue team, is quite decent. This is also demonstrated by the examples of Western Europe. The role of voluntary rescue teams in prevention is certainly also very important. All this process, which is currently underway in the restructuring of rescue teams, has actually taken place over a relatively long period of time. We have tried to explain everything to people and to give time for a voluntary initiative on the ground to encourage people to do so. Of course, efforts aimed directly at volunteering could have been even greater in previous years. You can agree with all of this. At the same time, I assure you that the decisions that have been taken at the moment, which concern, on the one hand, a very clear area of voluntary rescue and, on the other, strong development, and, on the other hand, the organisation of professional rescue, are in parallel. In my opinion, this is well thought out in the Rescue Board, and everything should be done in such a way that by the end of 2012, we will have 72 viable professional rescue commandos from all over Estonia and significantly more volunteer commandos capable of independent extinguishing and rescue. This would also be a very important contribution to the communities in which restructuring is currently taking place. We already have people on the ground in many places, or will have people on the ground, who will contribute to the rapid emergence of volunteering, even if people have so far had a certain reluctance to join in as volunteers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U40	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U41	Minister, thank you very much. Preventive work is really crucial to increasing security, that is right. But I am interested in this group of the population, for which prevention and education are most effective, these are minors and other young people. For 2011, you have many good examples of activities related to prevention. But please consider, Minister, how much untapped potential is there in prevention for young people, so that they do not get drunk in road accidents, slip into the hands of drug dealers, do not fight in public, and do not engage in risk behaviour in the form they are currently practicing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U42	I think that work on minors is never too much. For example, last year the Rescue Board started continuing programs for educating school students, raising their awareness. Funding for such programmes has continued to increase. Preventive work carried out by the police in schools, as well as in international programmes, has continued to grow. We will add to the Road Administration's efforts to prevent minors. However, it can be said that work with young people is not only targeted at young people, it should also affect adults. A good example is the smoke detector campaign carried out in 2011. It was precisely through other younger members of children and families that the Rescue Board approached the issue, so that they could direct them, and they have done so quite successfully, to the attention of older people, too, that a smoke detector can save people's lives. Feedback from this 2011 campaign is very positive. We have indeed reached an impressive figure in the use of the smoke detector: 94% of the living quarters. It has really been a drastic development here, and I think so, thanks to the influence of young people. I must add, as a general comment, that the systematic development of prevention policy and increasing targeting of roots have not been characteristic of the whole period after Estonia's release, rather of the 21st century. It is in the last ten years that prevention has been increasingly appreciated. I remember, as Minister of Justice here before Parliament, defending in 2004 the plan to strengthen the neighbourhood surveillance and other prevention programmes that then belonged to the Ministry of Justice. As regards the view that prevention among young people is the most effective means of influencing the number of deaths caused by accidents, it has taken years for this understanding to take root. I can assure you that the activities aimed at minors are taking place more and more widely, but it is never so much that I can say, in answer to your questions, that you see, this year we have done a great deal and now we are allowing ourselves a little break. No, no way!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U43	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, thank you very much for your presentation. The events of the last days and yesterday tell us that there are still people in Estonia who sell a piece of Estonia to our eastern neighbour on different motives. Is it for change or for more money, we don't know that right now. I'm pretty sure these people aren't the only ones who've done this, so there'll be more surprises. But here's my question. You talked very thoroughly about prevention at national level. How have you considered taking preventive action in the field of internal security in the sense that the people who work there feel safe first and foremost, that they have sufficient income and are motivated to serve the Estonian state in the truth and spirit? In particular, this concerns the largest institution, the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U45	Thank you very much for this question. I knew you were going to ask this question in February 2012, so I started preparing to reply already in May 2011 when I took office. I can tell you with pleasure that in 2012, the whole area of internal security has been targeted at EUR 10 million more than in 2011. A significant part of this is aimed at raising motivation to ensure that the people of our largest institution, the Police and Border Guard Board, in particular the criminal police, feel more confident and that their effective work is more appreciated. This also applies to the defence police, which also received a significant injection of money this year. And it must also be said that, in the light of the economic crisis of recent years, a major improvement is that EUR 1.4 million has been allocated to the Rescue Board to strengthen life-saving capabilities. I certainly intend to stand up for the area of internal security in the same way this year, looking at the next one as well as 2014 and 2015. As far as yesterday's event is concerned, it can only be said that there is never too much money and attention paid to internal security. I agree with you that no one is safe from such cases. If you ask how such things can be prevented, I will say that, of course, once again, with more effective ex-ante controls. But also very effective, I think, not even the best ex-ante control in the world has been able to prevent such subversive activities in the world's strongest special services. Estonia is certainly no exception here. I believe that due to the geopolitical location, Estonia is an attractive place between the East and the West, which is not only under the special attention of our eastern neighbour's services, but probably also in the focus of the special services of third countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U46	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U47	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is very interesting and important to analyse Estonia's security policy and its implementation practice in comparison with the relevant data or indicators developed by other European countries. For example, I have had to feel very bad when archival specialists calculated the democratic levels of the countries according to the time limits for the classification of various documents and placed Estonian democracy close to the quite totalitarian countries, precisely because of this unfortunate figure. You will remember how we have been trying to classify documents for 75 years that would not be secreted elsewhere for more than five years. As the time of the question is limited and I cannot ask a number of questions, I would like to focus on such details as fishing exception in Estonian investigative practice, which lawyers consider as a clue to political agents. Remember, the papers said that some politician's speeches had to be overheard for six hundred days that he might find something. How do you feel about the method of fishing in Estonia's security policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U48	How do I feel? I assume I understand your question correctly, Mr Black. But I feel that, in my opinion, any practice that works successfully in other countries in Estonia is certainly positive given the lack of resources and certainly the lower capacity of our small state. If something has worked in other countries, I see no reason why we should not try to do the same in Estonia, to apply the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U49	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! My question, I'm sorry, is my profession, my specialty. In fact, the very first slide in your report is called Unnatural Deaths. A part of the University's pathology course is tanatology, or teaching about death, its causes, and its dynamics. According to this, deaths are divided into natural and unnatural. Death is natural because of general aging, which is very rare. Unnatural deaths due to disease I assume you meant a violent death by unnatural means. But the question is: if there is such a terminological error in the security policy report, perhaps there are other terminological errors that may lead to substantive misunderstandings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U51	Thank you for your question. Page 37 of this report states exactly what is meant by unnatural deaths in terms of security policy. These include suicides, murders and other killings, drownings, deaths as a result of an accident, a fire or an accident at work. And really, the natural deaths that people suffer because of aging are not included here. This definition is, in my opinion, very precise so that when you read the Security Policy Report, you will understand what is in focus and what statistical indicators this number of abnormal deaths contains.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U52	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Let's talk a little more about prevention. The magnitude of violence and road deaths is the same. In light of this, does it not seem to you that the police are paying disproportionate attention to the traffic propaganda as well as to the fire safety propaganda and drowning deaths? But what measures have been taken and what prevention efforts have been made to reduce the number of violent deaths?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U54	Thank you for your question. As I mentioned in my report, among the deaths of violence in 2011 there was a significant proportion of tragic cases that started in a domestic dispute. Alcohol has played a major role in these domestic conflicts, as well as a certain degree of socialism, a lack of ability to assess the risks and risks that can change a common domestic dispute for slaughter. On this basis, your question is certainly very legitimate. How would we increasingly send a message to society that violence is never the solution, that calmness, interaction, and solving things with words, not with hands or some kind of attacking device, are the only way and that every person's fundamental rights and freedom need to be protected? How can this best be passed on in the field of prevention? I'm sure it's important. I think that, above all, there is a need for programmes aimed at minors, information campaigns, awareness-raising. However, as far as the violent deaths in Estonia are concerned, as I said in reply to an inquiry last week or the week before, I believe that the police's work here could be significantly better. But the contribution of the social partners, the social workers, the local government, could also be much greater. Police alone cannot prevent incidents in socially troubled families whose problems are known in very many cases. As I have already said, in half of the difficult cases there have also been earlier minor infringements, with fewer challenges. At one point, however, an argument has developed that it will end in severe bodily injury or death. It is not enough that only the police do their utmost to prevent such incidents. Such a family or household must also be dealt with intensively on a psychological, social level, and it must certainly also take into account people's material livelihoods.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U55	Please, Mr Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U56	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, It's still those rescue crews. I am not going to discuss and ask for an undertaking on the issue of the right to justice, and with it, I am sure that responsibility has been taken. I would like to ask specifically, not on the subject of voluntary general philosophy, what is the state of play in the nine regions where the commandos are going to be wound up? Has the seed you planted there started to germinate or rot? What is your specific information about the development of volunteer work in this nine regions, and is the Ministry of the Interior holding a pulse in this area or has everything been delegated to the Rescue Board as well as the closure decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U57	Thank you for your question. Of course, germination is taking place and the Rescue Board coordinators, together with the central coordinator, are working to ensure that voluntary rescue teams are established in these places. May 16th is the day when the restructuring will take place. As I said, many places already have voluntary rudiments. For example, there are dozens of people in Saku who are willing to join the voluntary rescue squad. There have been specific stories in several other places already in January when representatives of the Rescue Board met with local residents and spoke on a practical and not philosophical level about what volunteer work is. There was talk about the technical facilities that could be transferred from the property, the rescue unit building, what training, what training for volunteer rescuers would be organised. In my opinion, every month, more and more progress is being made towards voluntary rescue officers becoming those with whom the Rescue Board can enter into contracts. Of course, the Rescue Board will take care of this activity. The Ministry of the Interior provides its input, such as the input from last autumn, which was specifically about setting up volunteer coordinators' seats in both the police and the Rescue Board. This was the result of a joint debate. We consider it very important that we increasingly contribute, on a tactical and operational level, to the daily inspiration of people and their involvement in volunteering. As you know, it's not just an order, like a lot of other things can happen. There will be dozens of hours behind this work of convincing people, because only if people are willing to sacrifice their free time to do so will it be possible to increase the resource that the ability to save in Estonia as a whole represents.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U58	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Last week, in the newspaper of Ida-Virumaa, the northern coast of the Ministry of Justice and the officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs published a fairly broad overview of the criminality in Ida-Virumaa. I read this article and really saw that Ida-Virumaa is the ugliest place in our country. But, Mr. Minister, the statistics say that Ida-Viru County is not in the first row of this, let's say, in the competition. In this regard, I would like to ask you, Minister, for your opinion. You're a member of our government. What is the reason why Ida-Viru County crime is so great?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U60	Thank you for your question. The criminogenic situation is really remarkable in Ida-Viru County. I think that the Estonian state has taken quite significant steps to reduce this criminogenicity. There are certainly several reasons for criminality and crime. The fact that Ida-Virumaa has in fact had problems with filling law enforcement posts for years is not of minor importance, the effectiveness of the monitoring system. However, in the summer of 2007, we decided to give the defence police the task of investigating corruption in six major cities of Estonia, including several municipalities of Ida-Virumaa, and this has led to a significant change in people's attitudes. There is no longer a feeling of immunity in many parts of Ida-Virumaa that existed there. The defence police have also made changes in the area of motivation in a positive sense, increasing the motivation of defence police officers who work in Ida-Virumaa. In my opinion, the detection of serious corruption crimes in Ida-Virus has changed the overall attitude. This attitude is likely to lead in the coming years to the fact that we can talk about the cleansing of several municipalities in Ida-Viru County. Prevention has an important role to play in Ida-Virumaa. As we know, the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan was drawn up in 2010 and is being carried out by various experts under the leadership of the Minister for Regional Affairs. So, when it comes to the foundations of criminogenicity, there are definitely social influences and also economic influences at stake. Essential measures have been developed and bringing Ida-Virumaa into a single Estonian information space is not of little importance either. At present, I believe that a significant number of the community is in some other information room in Ida-Virumaa, where there are other ideas about what is allowed and what is not allowed. I think that a common understanding of what is part of the European cultural space and the legal space is very important for the rule of law. Criminogenicity does not start from the streets, but from people's homes. It's inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U61	Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U62	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! There is such an age-old question: who controls the controller? Listening to radio broadcasts this morning, I heard various experts commenting on yesterday's events. There were also views that perhaps the structure and structure of our security authorities were a little too much stuck in the paradigm of the second half of the 1990s, perhaps a paradigm change would be necessary. In other countries, after the attack on the twin towers in the United States, certain changes have been introduced, obviously, but maybe more changes would be needed. If you look at the example of the United States, there's a healthy competition between the CIA and the FBI. Their responsibilities are different, but there is a certain rivalry. I don't know if a similar parallel can be drawn between the Information Board and the CPO, but in the United States, for example, a new agency Homeland Security was established. Do we have everything cut in stone or do we need any changes? The hands of the security authorities, the hands of the inspection committee are not infinitely long in this house either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U63	As far as law enforcement authorities are concerned, I believe that our supervision, the general rule of law, is quite well balanced. There has been talk, for example, of separating police activities from the Defence Police and perhaps other thoughts. I think the current system is working. Estonia is not exceptional in this respect that the Defence Police have two functions that it performs. As regards, for example, the eradication of serious corruption in Estonia, its prevention and detection, the conduct of criminal proceedings, he does so well. In my opinion, this balance exists. Of course, it is always possible to improve supervision, in particular with regard to increasing the amounts of money and attention to be allocated. But all kinds of debates and other debates are, in my opinion, only good.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U64	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Thanks for the review. In your answer to the question about the ability to save, my ear was touched by the word 'unhalf powerless'. I'm sure it hurts the people who are currently working on those nine closed commandos. Its constant emphasis is certainly not appropriate. These men have done their job with their hearts to save people and property and have often given more of themselves than the resources and other opportunities they have expected. If they were meaningless men, the community would hardly stand up for them. My question, however, is about the 228 people who lost their Estonian passport, one of whom was dealt with yesterday in 'The Spectator'. For 17 years, the man has been the owner of the Estonian passport and it is known that he provided false information unintentionally. The question is this: do those people who now have the opportunity to apply for the Estonian passport again have to pay for it? Could be a short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U66	Thank you for many questions. I certainly did not use the word'semi-inability' in the context of these nine rescue teams, but in response to Rein Aidma's question of volunteering in areas where there is partial rescue capability. Partial rescue capabilities mean that life-saving capabilities are not guaranteed in all circumstances. I used it to give an example that it has been experienced by our rescue experts in many parts of the world. The debate is on whether or not a professional rescue squad should remain in one place or another, and in such places volunteering has not arisen as quickly as we expected. People have a waiting attitude and are waiting to make a specific decision as to whether or not the professional commando will remain. This is far from being the case not only of these nine commandos, but also of the commandos restructured in previous years. After making the decision, the voluntary beginnings have started to germinate much faster in these areas. That was my answer. My position, particularly as regards the ability to save, is, I repeat, one more thing: ensuring life-saving capabilities is the most important thing. The most important thing is that professional rescue officers arrive in time when they are needed and that people have a clear sense of security that these men can provide full service. It's not like a rescue squad arrives, a man needs to be rescued from the house, but it can't be done with two men because no regulation allows it. I don't think we should give people a seeming sense of security - we should give people a real sense of security. As regards the second part of your question, a draft has been initiated in Parliament concerning persons who have lost their nationality. For our part, we have also proposed the implementing provisions that this draft launched in Parliament definitely needs. Without implementing provisions, the Citizenship Act cannot be amended. We have already provided our own opinions on what the implementing provisions could be. I think that, in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we will come back to these issues thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U67	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have to admit that for the last half hour, I listened to this sitting on the radio in my office, and I came to this hall to your reply that people in Ida-Viru County are in another information room that distorts their understanding of Estonian law and what is allowed in this country and what is not. I ask you to specify what studies or analyses you will rely on if you say such things!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U69	The treatment of staying in the information room and receiving information from one source or another has indeed been carried out in recent years, and in my opinion this is no secret to anyone, nor is it a surprise that there are communities in Estonia that receive basic information not from Estonian sources of information, but from one other country. And the approaches and perceptions that dominate these sources shape certain attitudes in people. I think that this problem has already been addressed by the creators of the Ida-Virumaa Action Programme during the previous government, who envisaged quite a number of measures to increase the coverage and scope of the Estonian information space in Ida-Virumaa, as well as in many other parts of Estonia. All we have to do is get on with this job. These attitudes, which concern my area, including prevention policy, can be passed on to people mainly through the information room. For example, information campaigns aimed at young people, whether to reduce rescue, fire and drowning deaths or traffic offences, are all the fruits of the information room. However, if people are not in this information room or are in it very little, then these people are likely to have to be approached in another way. I can say here that this year we intend to allocate significant additional amounts to inform people who do not speak Estonian, so that prevention policy can reach them better than it has done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U70	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U71	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Our subject is security. One part of security is how well people feel about protecting their rights and freedom. People need to be sure that they are not being monitored, that they are not being eavesdropped, etc., without the utmost need. The question is: how do you explain the printouts of eavesdropping protocols published in the Estonian media and so on? I think you know what I'm talking about. How do you explain that things like that appear in the media?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U72	I can only agree with you. Of course, the appearance of such materials, likely to have been to some extent ripped out of context, is a problem for many stakeholders. We have dealt with this issue in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and we have also heard in public the explanations and opinions of the representatives of the prosecutor's office and other experts from where such material comes from. It does not rule out that, in certain cases, this may be part of the protection tactics, I mean, to a certain extent, the disclosure of pieces of information torn out of the context and thereby the ridicule or humiliation of one or the other procedure. At the same time, we must take into account that the materials that are available belong to a'single information space'. Their disclosure by our fourth power is, of course, the decision of the fourth power itself; it is part of the rule of law; it is not possible to hold on to information. Above all, we are talking about materials that are public and accessible. Problems have arisen in previous years in cases where I believe that such information, documents that have gone to surveillance activities and have not been public, have been made public. They have been torn out of context, and this is likely to result in a very strong interference of private individuals' private autonomy, a violation of fundamental rights which has caused unjustified suffering to parties, including third parties. However, we have taken quite a number of steps in this area, for example, last year amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure came into force in order to amend certain regulations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U73	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for the Interior, for your presentation and your answer to questions. Let's start the negotiations. First of all, I would like to ask my colleague Kalle Laaneti to speak as a representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! I very much hope that the rest of my colleagues will be in the rooms with the TVs and will closely follow the debate on security policy from there, not that they care at all. On the day before the birthday of the Republic of Estonia, it may be appropriate to say that the freedom of the state is a struggle that requires daily petty conquests. I think that this discussion of security policy in this House of the Riigikogu today is also certainly a small victory that holds Estonia's democracy and freedom and takes us on the road to better security for people. I agree that the direction towards which the first decade of this century began to move is certainly the right one. Avoidance is in any case more reasonable than dealing with the consequences. The report prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, as the Minister says, not the Yearbook, talks a great deal about prevention, or prevention. I agree that one euro will certainly save ten euros in prevention. I also agree with the principle of this 'broken window', which is very clear, but I am more than convinced that this principle only works in words on very many occasions. Early sighting is a key point, but it is not enough; someone must also react. I don't want to talk about this remote number, statistics today. I want to talk about people. People in this key that it depends primarily on them how safe we feel in Estonia and how safe we feel in the European Union. Yesterday's event again shows how much depends on one specialist, on his desire to serve the Estonian state, the Estonian people, and not on the low interest of being in a slightly better situation in terms of income or position at some point. He has been more valued, but he has not served the Estonian people. Why do I want to talk about people? I want to talk about people who work in the security field. Whether they are in the Police and Border Guard Board or the Rescue Board, they are employees of the Information Board or the employees of the CPO, the most important thing is that these people are well-elected, motivated, working in a good environment and feeling safe. Only people who feel safe can offer safety. I mean, above all, social security by safety. You cannot offer an open approach and a sense of security to another person if the income for this job is not sufficient if you have to think about how you will get your heating bills paid or how kindergarten tax will be paid before the end of the month. If those members of the organisation who are required by law to be responsible for security in Estonia feel well, then they can extend this feeling to those people, to those voluntary associations who must give their additional contribution to security. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U75	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U76	It's nice and good that people volunteer to join either the rescue or the police. This broadens the concept of security as a whole. Similarly, we are talking about cooperation in this context that we should identify and minimise risks early, and there is a great role for local authorities in all of this. At the same time, we are well aware that in very many local governments it is not at all understood that they should be dealing with it. They don't have people with appropriate training, people with an understanding. On many occasions, they also have no money to deal with extensive general preventive work. What am I saying? What I'm trying to say is that I'm worried about our people, about how they're gonna do it. As we have seen from these figures, the biggest increase has been in the number I have said that I am not talking about figures today, but I still have to refer to them as crimes caused by relationships between people who know each other. People who know one another cannot work out relationships peacefully between themselves, but must either cause bodily harm to others or make their lives spiritually into hell. This is, in my opinion, the biggest problem. It's like a snowball that grows as it rolls. When a mother lives with someone like that, these problems are also passed on to children. Children grow up and carry these problems over to their children. It's a rolling snowball. This is, in my opinion, one of the greatest challenges not only for people working in the security field, but for the whole country. Thank you. Happy anniversary of the Republic to everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U77	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U78	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Kalle and I are always acting like a policeman here on security issues. First of all, I would like to congratulate some of today's report's heroes - sons and daughters who are fighting for internal security in our country, as well as people who contribute to internal security alongside their everyday activities, or volunteers. Now, if you come to today's item and specifically talk about the security report, I'm going to get a little more critical. This is because of the very document that we had in our hands. But first out of politics. If you look at how other policies can affect internal security, it must certainly be noted that the report does include thousands of prevention classes, but this work unfortunately does not reach all sections of the population. The decline in internal security is a consequence of social problems and, in turn, creates social problems. Social stratification, an increase in the number of people who have fallen into poverty, has led to more alcohol consumption, prevention not affecting them, and close violence often ends with the worst, or killing, of all. Another thing that justice policy should bear in mind, but which unfortunately I could not read in a future-oriented way in this report, is the setting of priorities. I think that changes in criminal proceedings to better respond to family violence, close-relationship violence are welcome in our legal space. Certainly, from this point of view, we should review the Penal Code and, more broadly, why not also the administrative reform. Weekdays ago, I was dealing with the problems of a small rural municipality. There's a master who beats his family and sometimes appears a little more widely between the village. The police have done all kinds of things to him, and the local government is spreading its hands because there is no resource, there is no speciality to deal with such people. If we go back to this particular report, there is a lot of talk about the rescue area. I will tell you the truth: no matter what schedule I can see, it still does not make sense to me how it can be that if we shut down commandos somewhere and there is no voluntary service to be provided there, security will increase. Yeah, somewhere where the number of members of the rescue team is increased, security increases, but where they're taken from, it doesn't increase. There is growing a real threat to life. The minister referred to the reaper in the discussion on citizenship issues with Jevgeni Ossinovski and it seems that the same rule applies in this area too that many problems are solved by the reaper. I hope he hasn't been drafted as an assistant police officer yet. Increasing security with the help of volunteers is, of course, a very nice idea, but I have not seen, among our legislative initiatives, proposals to make up for this contribution. In this same report, there are no examples in our immediate countries of how these people are compensated, either from public or local government resources, for working hours where they cannot do their main job. For example, in Finland, it is very clearly regulated and the person knows that he or she does not have to fear losing his or her job by volunteering. We can't plan accidents. Yeah, you could have planned the bronze soldier's move for the weekend, then the cost to the relief police would have been lower, but we can't plan fires like that. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U79	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U80	It also surprises me that there was no word in the report about the reasons that led to the situation that the rescue helicopters bought with the expensive money of taxpayers were in the process of repairing most of the time. There is not a word about the Padaoru events launched at the end of last year, although we must consider what happened as at least last year's analysis. We are talking about routines, but we are not talking about extraordinary cases that are, in fact, the greatest challenge in the area of salvation. Conservative immigration policy also chapter. It was surprising that we talked about the residence permit scandal as we went over it, and we were about to talk about changing the Aliens Act. Certainly the law must be improved, but I dare say that the current law does not prohibit follow-up by the authorities either. The question is whether we have the political will to do so, whether we have the resources to carry out this control. The issue of citizenship policy was also a surprise. This figure has indeed fallen below 100000, but has it fallen due to the action of the Estonian state or rather because of the inaction of the Estonian state? There's a lot of talk about self-extinguishing cigarettes. But I dare say that this contingent, which is the biggest risk group, knows nothing about self-extinguishing cigarettes. They're smoking salami cigarettes. In Ida-Virumaa, 2/3 of the sale of cigarettes consists of salasi cigarettes, which means that this preventive measure does not reach these people. Yes, we can say that this issue of smuggling and financial policy is a problem for the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, but given its scope in Estonia, the turnover of both secret alcohol and tobacco is about one billion kroons in old money on the black market, I think that this business has all the signs of organised crime and the Ministry of the Interior could also deal with it more substantially. There is certainly a huge amount of criminal revenue hidden in there that could be cashed into the treasury. Nor did I like the talk about the drug market and the fact that we only deal with serious drug crimes. I stress once again: all studies show that access to drugs is not a problem among young people. That means the street dealership is booming. This is demonstrated by the same fact that the number of these discoveries has virtually fallen three times in three years. It is actually a question of channelling resources. It's not a criminal police job, it's more of a law enforcement police job. As far as the same drug work is concerned, when it comes to the increase in traffic offences, it is not worth shaking the ashes into your head, all of which is related to the fact that we have a little chaoticly moved away from the field. There is ongoing work on centralisation, restructuring, often re-management, but so far there is still an unresolved problem for which the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior are specifically responsible, for which agencies are responsible. But I understand that in the light of these studies, it will be dealt with. Finally, let us continue to write reports on the basis of the present. Otherwise, the report will remind the ECB's Central Committee's politburo of plenum material, where, under increasing stagnation conditions, it was written about overcoming the five-year plans. How it all ended will surely be learned from the older coalition members who went through all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U81	Thank you, Mr Anvelt. I would like to ask Mrs Mati Raidma from the Group of the Reform Party to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to counterweight the former militia. The strong position of the Reform Party is that ensuring security is the joint work of the three components of the state, all of us as citizens and some of us joining civil society organisations. What is the proportion of each component and where the line of responsibility runs depends to a large extent on perceptions and sometimes also on ideology. The state must be able to guarantee the best sense of security for people, so that it gives everyone confidence in developing themselves, raising children and pursuing economic success. This is what the current coalition has set in the "Security Estonia" chapter of the Government's programme of action. How developments have taken place in this way, we have heard today about the presentation by the Minister of the Interior. Perhaps the greatest and most positive act was taken in this Chamber during the previous term, when the decision to listen to the report of the Minister of the Interior on the security of the country was made every year in the large hall. It's made a lot of difference to the whole process. Upon returning to today's presentation, I would first like to thank the coalition partner for the work he has done and for the success of many internal security sectors. I consider it an important sign that the words'safety culture' and'security culture' have reached the working language. It provides the basis for the participation of society as a whole, which is essential for the creation of a secure living environment. Now, aside from the Minister's positive presentation, there are some compensatory observations. What are the grounds for evaluating when we are talking about the success of security policy? There were a lot of statistics in the report. The statistics certainly play a commendable illustrative role. The only suggestion is that the language of absolute numbers used today, i.e. 'how many and in what year', could be greatly supplemented or partially replaced by the language of ratios. All indicators must actually be looked at in the context system. For example, the fact that the changes in population statistics actually change the figures for accident statistics is not a successful job at all. Secondly, I want to talk about the term 'feeling'. This is probably the most important, but at the same time it is also the most difficult to map. Security versus fear, however, is one of the key components for each person's assessment of the living environment. And I would add here the responsibility of creating another feeling in the hands of the authorities: this is how to curb the sense of impunity, both in society and in the ranks of the officials themselves. Third, the term 'trust'. The high percentage of trust in internal security authorities in different surveys provides a basis for assessing their work. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U83	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U84	I hope that strong trust does not make the authorities feel comfortable or even worse, overconfidence, so that things can be done that can break this trust. The process of reviewing the location of rescue teams is evidently a more characteristic example. The trust between not only the authorities and the population, but also between professional and volunteer rescuers has been fractured in at least nine Estonian regions. 'More rethinking! ' would be the late advice here. I also propose that you think quite seriously about whether the recently adopted concept of "life-saving capacity" is suitable for our language space, but already hundreds of volunteers are labeled as life-saving inability. And the same strange fact that yesterday the Minister of the Interior handed over lifesaving medals to lifeless people. Maybe take some time off and wonder if this term fits into our language space. We should not exploit'saving life' in this way. A few more observations, which characterise the development of cooperation between the different branches of internal security. Emergency number 112. However, lately, despite resolutely heading towards the introduction of the common emergency number 112, one agency was still campaigning and directing money to advertise and also to paint their own emergency number 110 on our alarm vehicles. Reasonable? Questionable! So much for prevention policy that the importance highlighted several times today is understandable. At the same time, we read about the draft law on police and border guards arriving in the Riigikogu about the introduction of voluntary maritime rescue regulations, but the Ministry of the Interior does not provide them with any prevention function. Reasonable? Questionable! Finally, I would like to stress that the expression 'free person in a free country' also includes inextricably the term'security', with the knowledge that contributing to it is the duty of any free person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U85	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. I would like to ask my colleague, Marko Pomerants, as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U86	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I don't have a nice flowing speech, but I've noticed that in the end, the verbatim writers always come together. I want to start with the ability and inability. There are also 100% unemployed people in Estonia who are able to work fully. So maybe you don't have to get caught up in it every time. As far as this report is concerned, every report is a bit of a face of the minister who is currently in office. Today is the face of a little Ken-Mart Vaher. If Andres Anvelt was a minister, I think the drug chapter might get a little bit bit more. The Minister of the Interior is shaking his head. We don't know that, do we? But I think it's perfectly natural. As for the events in Padaoru, good colleague Anvelt, read last year's report and book, there it was all over. I don't know how much more to add. But now a little bit based on statistics and different keywords. Road deaths. On the car radio, I listened to this debate when the traffic law was amended and the reflector, as such, intended to be made mandatory in the dark, regardless of whether the sign of the settlement had already passed and entered the settlement. I also heard the opinions that it is foolish for this Riigikogu to adopt such silly laws.! So who's supposed to be dating a reflector in town?! But let's look at the statistics, and the mood gets bad. In 2011, 26 pedestrians died and 396 were injured in 404 traffic accidents, 65% of which had poor security equipment. We're not talking about a seat belt, no helmet, nothing that sucks, we're talking about a simple little retro-reflector. We could draw much better numbers into statistics simply by changing the behaviour of the human being. There is no need to pay the police extra wages or anything, so we can save lives for very cheap money. Now at all our expectations that the statistics will improve. In my opinion, there is a story like the increase in the average life expectancy of Estonians. You don't get a new year's worth every year. We have to accept that we have a new, I don't know, culture or behavior after four, five or six years. Now the question is, if we've been able to be there for a few years, which is the next trick we can go on with. If you compare two years, you might not get much smarter, because we're still on the same level. There has been a great deal of talk about volunteering. When we look at volunteering throughout the European Union, we see that volunteering is a feature of one developed country. I think it makes perfect sense for us to move in that direction too. However, this does not mean that the national institutions will cease to exist. Now, from the life-saving capacity. I agree with Mati Raidma that it should not be overstated. Indeed, in a quarter of an hour it may not be necessary to carry out this particular task anymore, but the simple thing is whether you have a man with strong hands jumping out of your car or whether you have three or four. Indeed, the savior cannot be unbearable, but the ops of the command depend on how many men there are. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U87	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U88	Of course, as in life, there are many aspects to this question of increasing lifesaving capabilities. In the recent Dressen case, it is very lame that such a traitor exists in Estonia, but it is very nice that this traitor will probably spend the next few years in some detention facility. Indeed, on the one hand, there are a number of people whose security is reduced due to restructuring, on the other hand, the outbreak of a fire is never linked to the presence of a commando. The commando can mitigate the consequences, that's right, but the house is going to burn regardless of the presence of the commando. A little of today's second topic: we are going to decide how to contribute to the development of the Greek state. In the context of Frontex, it must be said that this is a completely separate issue as to how this country can guarantee its security. This could affect the whole of the European Union or the Schengen visa space. After all, we see that the Estonian border guards here in the northern part of the European Union have also been forced to contribute to the situation being under control there at all times. Finally, voluntary sea rescues. We have the draft in Riigikogu proceedings, amendments have arrived within the deadline for amendments, and we can move on with them. Next year, there will probably be another face. And that's not because the minister should have changed by then. Just life is dynamic and needs to think about what to put the emphasis on in the new report. Good luck to all those who guarantee safety! This desire is intended for all of us, every citizen, including, of course, those who wear a uniform or a uniform, who sometimes have to try to prevent, sometimes fight the consequences. Thank you. Happy Republican Anniversary!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U89	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. All political groups have been given the opportunity to occur. I'm closing the negotiations. Our hearing is adjourned. But, ladies and gentlemen, at 4:00 today, I expect you back here to discuss a very serious matter. If the European economy continues to go downhill very quickly, then, believe me, security will not increase. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 12.12.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U90	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the first additional session of the sixth working week of the third session of the Riigikogu, which will last until the agenda is exhausted. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. I'm calling for President Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U91	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates three draft laws. Firstly, the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act. Thirdly, the draft law on the ratification of the social security agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of the latter two drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U92	Thank you. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U93	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I and 11 other members of the Central Party Group have a question for the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang. It is about valuing cultural workers. Until 2007, all coalition agreements had defined the need for equal pay increases for educational and cultural workers. In recent years, the wages of cultural workers have fallen instead of rising. While the average salary of cultural workers in 2009 was EEK 11169, in 2010 it fell to EEK 9907. The Government of the Republic also disagreed with the increase in the salary of cultural workers working in state institutions at the meeting of representatives and government delegation of the Central Organisation of Workers' Trade Unions of the Ministry of Culture in autumn 2011. Despite the low wage of cultural workers, the proportion of cultural workers with Estonian higher education is the first in the European Union. Of all people working in the cultural field, 64% have higher education. The analysis of the composition of state agencies and the dynamics of wage costs in 2007-2008, drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, shows that the average wage of employees in the Ministry of Culture's area of government was the lowest in comparison to that of other ministries. Qualified and long-term cultural workers working in theatres, concert facilities, museums, libraries, recreational institutions and elsewhere have been underfunded for years. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U94	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Now the messages. First, the Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Constitutional Committee. a Draft Act on the Election of the European Parliament, the Local Government Council Election Act, the Referendum Act, the Riigikogu Election Act and the amendment of other laws, launched on 22 February, and has appointed the Constitutional Commission as the leading committee. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the Communication from the European Commission on the Energy Roadmap 2050 were presented on 23 February 2005 to the Committee on European Union Affairs and has appointed the Economic Commission and the Committee on the Environment to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. March 8th at 4 p.m. I have forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11. That means we can continue the trial. Aivar Sõerd, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will make a presentation of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U95	The Government of the Republic begins. a First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions." I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, to serve as a waitress. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to approve the main underlying document of the new Greek economic programme, the Memorandum of Economic Policy Conditions for 2012/2014. The programme is planned to be concluded with Greece for a period of three years, with three-year activities described in the programme. The approval of the Riigikogu is a prerequisite for Estonia to allow its support through the European Financial Stability Fund. The Government shall submit the draft memorandum for approval in accordance with the Riigikogu's decision of 29 September 2011 to "Ensure compliance with the obligations arising from the EFSF Framework Agreement and its amendments'. The International Monetary Fund also participates in the Greek loan package. In the run-up to submission to the Riigikogu, the government estimated that, in combination with the partial write-off of Greek sovereign debt, favourable conditions for new loans, strict reform requirements and enhanced control, it would be possible to regulate Greek public finances in principle and to adapt to the economy without excessive shock. The adjustment of the Greek economy is inevitable in order to avoid greater instability both in Greece and in the euro area as a whole, especially in other countries with high levels of indebtedness. Stability would not leave Estonia untouched. By helping Greece, Estonia also supports the stabilisation of the euro area and the economic environment around us. The memorandum of the programme is a very demanding plan approved by the Greek Parliament and will be closely monitored by the euro area and the IMF. The central objective is to balance the Greek budget with a primary surplus of 4.5% in 2014. To this end, public expenditure, including more than 10% of public sector wages and wage costs, as well as social costs and pensions, will be significantly reduced by more than 3% of GDP in total, and financial discipline will be created in the health care system. Greece's reform plans have a lot to recognise for Estonia. One of the most important things is tax reform: abolishing tax incentives and broadening the tax base, lowering tax rates, as well as building a strong tax administration. Restructuring will take place throughout the budgetary system, including with the Treasury. Consolidation of social funds is planned. Centralise expenditure control and organisation of public procurement. Particular attention will be paid to Greece's major problem of revenue concealment: hiring auditors and inspections, closing the collection of taxes in cash, broadening the rights of the tax authorities. Reforms towards labour market flexibility have been agreed as one of the key issues for improving the competitiveness of the economy, including facilitating the termination of collective agreements. Their maximum length shall be allowed for three years. The minimum wage will be reduced by 22% for young people, 32% for young people. The programme seeks a 15% reduction in unit labour costs, i.e. a 22% reduction for 2009/2014. The programme provides for a comprehensive privatisation plan of a total amount of EUR 50 billion to mobilise private capital and efficiency in the economy. The business environment is freed from restrictions that are considered to be one of the major barriers to growth in Greece. The state's financial system is consolidated and structured. Following the debt exchange between the Greek State and the private sector, to which the Greek banks are parties, the banks will be recapitalised and restructured. Public administration reform will also be carried out. The aim is to reduce the number of public earners by 2010. A total of 150000 persons in 2005 and for each of the five staff members who have left, only one shall therefore be allowed to take their place. If the countries participating in the assistance package give their consent to the programme and Greece complies with the first part of the programme by 29 February, in particular by making legislative changes to the reforms, the disbursement of the part of the loan needed to involve the private sector in the Eurogroup will be decided on 1 March. A separate memorandum on this inclusion has been drawn up, which is for information provided to the Riigikogu. Following the debt changeover, the financing of the remaining part of the programme will be clarified and it will be assessed whether Greece has fulfilled the conditions of the programme set for that time. If yes, the remaining loan agreement will be concluded with Greece in the second half of March, expected on 19 March, on the basis of which disbursements will be made on a quarterly basis. Payments shall always be preceded by an evaluation of the fulfilment of the conditions of the programme. The memorandum of understanding, the draft of which is now before the Riigikogu, is also finally approved before the conclusion of the loan agreement. Thus, subject to compliance with the preconditions set out in the Greek economic programme, specific loan agreements will be concluded between Greece and the official creditors. The total amount of the new Greek loan is EUR 135 billion, plus the financing needs of the previous loan programme of EUR 35 billion this year. This loan amount is divided between the euro area and the IMF, with the final amount of the IMF's participation being reported in mid-March. The euro area financing of the economic programme will take place in the first year of the programme through the EFSF. The EFSF will receive money that it can lend to Greece if it borrows from the market using guarantees provided by Member States and issues bonds. The obligations of the EFSF are reflected in the public debt ratio according to Eurostat rules according to the capital key of the EFSF. Estonia's participation in this guarantee is expected to be 0.2748%. Part of the Greek loan programme is likely to operate through the European Stability Mechanism, which will be launched in July this year. The European Stability Mechanism (ESM) is an institution set up by euro area countries under European law with their own core capital. The share capital will be paid up by the Member States in five instalments according to the current plan. Estonia's participation in this mechanism is 0.186% and our share of core capital totals EUR 148.8 million. In order to finance its loan agreements, probably in the future, the Greek programme, the ESM will also borrow from the market and continue to borrow this money. Unlike the EFSF, the ESM will do so under the equity guarantee and the loans taken by the ESM will not be reflected in the euro area's commitment or debt burden. Capital contributions to the ESM are treated as a financing transaction for the purposes of the State's accounts. The loans related to the Greek economic programme are financed by the IMF, on the one hand, and by the EFSF and/or ESM, on the other hand, and the exact shares will be known in the coming months. Estonia's debt burden reflects the part of the guarantee used by EFSF. The current expenditure of the state budget is not directly affected by the Greek loan programme, as the financing transaction reflects Estonia's future contributions to ESM's core capital. Finally, as part of the new economic programme, I would stress that no one is going to give money to Greece. Euro area and IMF loans will give the country a more peaceful time to complete the programme and they will certainly have to be repaid. Estonia also intends to be a demanding creditor. At the same time, we are contributing with technical assistance to improve the administrative capacity of the Greek State. I call on the Riigikogu to find courage to support this difficult, not pleasant decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U97	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. You have many questions. Let's start with my colleague, Kalev Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! We can read from the end of the explanatory memorandum: 'As the aid loans granted to Greece through the EFSF are partly different terms and conditions of use, the duration of the guarantees and the impact of the EFSF loans on the Estonian debt burden vary. ' Finally, it has been said that this information will be submitted to the Government and the Riigikogu as soon as possible. As you know today, you wish to obtain the approval of the Riigikogu, this specific information is probably already in place. My question is, what is the exact impact on Estonia's debt burden in the light of this decision to be approved today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U99	Thank you. As you know at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there cannot be a response at present, because decisions on the coexistence of the EFSF and the ESM have not been taken and, of course, decisions have not been taken on the proportions of these loans between them. So there can't be a purely physical answer. We can, of course, make some hypothetical calculations, somehow as a weighted average, given the contribution of the two mechanisms to the financing of the Greek programme, which is expected to amount to EUR 130 billion in additional money. Using these ratios, one is 0.186% and the other is 0.274%. We can hypothetically say that Estonia's maximum contribution could theoretically be a quarter or a fifth of the volume of the programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U100	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Do you think that the second package of aid for Greece is too optimistic to achieve the desired result, or are additional measures to be expected? The desired result is to bring the debt burden from 2020160% of GDP to 120%. Why do I doubt it? The success of the programme is based on three principles: The first of these is the balancing of the Greek budget. I doubt that the Greek State will be able to do so. Secondly, if this cut-off plan really materialises, it is somehow naive to expect that GDP will not decrease as early as 2013 and growth will be 2.3% in 2014. The third thing that worries me is negative debt restructuring. This practically excludes a return to the financial markets, which is also part of this big package.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U102	Thank you. A wise person has doubts. Your arguments are, of course, suitable for doubt. Of course, a person who is comfortable at the moment is also questioning, for voting for this decision certainly does not bring happiness or public love to anyone. We should not be the major economic forecasters here; politicians could keep their fingers as far away from the forecasts as possible. If you do so, it would certainly not affect, for example, the drafting of our budget and would not be desirable in this sense, but we must believe the best experts who have drawn up this forecast. I can say from my gut feeling that Greece's growth of two per cent, especially when we are talking about nominal growth, is completely achievable after Greece has passed through the north. In Greece, there are hidden resources which are not dared to be highlighted in unstable circumstances. The overall stabilisation of the atmosphere, the removal of restrictions on competition, the flexibility of the labour market, the efficiency of the tax system and much more that Greece is doing, and which are common, basic sources of growth, should ensure the exit from this northern level. I think it is very clearly feasible. Let's add privatization. Greece has a well-ambitious privatisation plan, which is not just a matter of selling back assets and obtaining money, but privatisation should bring investment, private sector know-how, private sector efficiency. The fundamental problem in Greece is an exceptionally inefficient public sector. Investments, the removal of growth restrictions and other such things are urgently needed in Greece, and they could generate a few percentage points of economic growth if we did not, of course, block it too much with our talk. This is not a good thing for investment and employment in the media, is it? We are hopeful, we are positive, we offer our help and we offer supervision above all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U103	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U104	Thank you, Minister of Finance. I will partly continue with Mr Borodich's question of economic growth, which is perhaps even more important than the cuts in order to achieve the debt target. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal states that the situation is slightly improving in terms of competitiveness, but above all due to a reduction in wages and not so much to an increase in efficiency. The whole part of the programme concerning cuts is very impressive. However, there is a lack of traditional European measures such as active labour market policies, investment in education and retraining for workers, etc., which could not only lower wages but also contribute in other ways to the recovery of economic growth. Can you tell me why these things aren't really in this long memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U105	Thank you. First of all, the traditional methods of stimulating growth are, according to the European consensus developed in the crisis, the achievement of labour market flexibility, the efficiency of the tax system, the elimination of restrictions on competition. They are very strongly represented there. This is about a three-year programme. Conversion training and the effectiveness of the education system have been mentioned, but we cannot expect results here in three years. Here, help is offered to Greece. Greece, together with other southern Europe, is certainly one of the tail joggers in the educational tables. No one doubts that education is a long-term key, but Greece must, above all, emerge from the crisis. I would not in any way contrast things such as cuts and growth. Firstly, in circumstances where the public sector is a very heavy burden on growth, it absorbs a skilled workforce, competes with the private sector in terms of wages and has imposed unreasonable restrictions for many years, we just need to ease it. Cuts are an extremely important source of economic growth. In short, these are not the two pairs that we should be confronting at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U106	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U107	Thank you. Honourable performer! I understand that today's step must be taken. But I ask you: how do you intend to justify this in an internal political way? Tomorrow is the anniversary of the Republic. Today most Estonian radio stations conducted surveys on why it is good to live in Estonia. There were exceptionally many negative assessments of the state of life in Estonia. I haven't heard that in years. There's a teacher's strike ahead. What would you say today to this remote educators waiting for a raise, but we'll share the money elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U108	We don't share that money anywhere else. It's, let's say, the speculator's thinking that we're seeing money somewhere, and then we're gonna split it up right now. It's not the money we'd use to raise wages. The reserves we have collected are designed to solve one-off problems, not raise wages. I certainly do not agree that Estonia is like some sort of disaster in this context when we are discussing the problems of Greece. Estonia could rather be a model that shows how affordable spending prevents major problems. The stupidest thing that can be done is to spend our reserves on wages with great effort. No politician would miss the opportunity to raise teachers' salaries. It is a matter of how someone appreciates this possibility, whether it is a sustainable opportunity or a one-off opportunity to achieve the result of the election and then face major challenges. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, very many stupid decisions were made on wages. That is one reason why teachers' salaries have now been frozen. Not just teachers' wages, you know that well. The foolishness of wage policy during the boom is why wages have stopped rising.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U109	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U110	Thank you. Dear Minister, If you compare it with Estonia, I see that in 2009 and 2010 the growth rate in Greece decreased by 3.3 to 3.5%, in Estonia this decline was in one quarter, we remember, even 16%. In that sense, our situation has been much worse. But when we look at the secret report for the finance ministers in the euro area, it says that Greece is much worse than it looks. As regards savings measures, the report says that they actually have negative consequences and this package will not help for very long. What do you think is enough of this package for Greece, and would you, for example, lend it to a person or bail out a person who has personal difficulties? Why would the state do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U111	Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U112	Thank you. I would also like to see the secret report that has been presented to the finance ministers and which you have seen. I haven't seen it. I have not seen a report of this kind, although I have been through many documents. Whether I borrow is not a relevant issue at all, because public affairs are dealt with by national decisions. I would not personally lend a loan to the Treasury, nor to the Estonian Treasury; that would be just stupid and that would be pointless. I'm not considering any parallel in personal terms. Estonia, as I said, is making a public decision with public money, with the aim of improving the overall economic environment in Europe and also helping itself to prevent major losses for the entire European economy. I hope that this is how the Riigikogu deals with it. It's not my personal money or my personal decision. There's no reason to tie my identity to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U113	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I'm a little more specific about Marika Tuus-Laul. Both the international media and the Estonian media have been through a talk about what to call a secret agreement, a secret protocol, a secret analysis. There's no point in saying it's a secret. Its content is about that this package is not enough to help Greece. You said you hadn't seen it, and there is no such thing. Have you asked your colleagues in Europe whether they have seen it, heard about it, read about it, or if it is purely fiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U114	Thank you. I have not asked my fellow officers if they have seen the secret report in the hands of Marika Tuus-Laul. I don't know what he's talking about. But I have said publicly in the Commission and also in the press release that this is a three-year programme. It has been said that there will be a fourth and a fifth. I'm asking why not sixth and seventh. The general opinion at the meeting table is that the Greek economy can be made to grow with this three-year programme. However, Greece's access to markets after three years is not realistic. So the need to contribute official money to Greece remains, but to a much smaller extent than the programme envisages. There's talk of a much smaller scale. I would not like to comment on any leaked rumor or on what is being said at the table, which is certainly not so public. No one has offered that in three years' time, the disaster situation will be the same as it is today. No one doubts that the Greek programmes are long-term. Greece's realistic hope of accessing markets will be around 2020. What's going on before that? In principle, Greece has also been able to sell short-term bonds today. The restructuring of debts gives Greece a grace period. He's paying interest, but he doesn't have to pay back the principal. So we don't have to worry too much about that post-programme money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U115	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U116	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. To comment on the two previous questions, we have, after all, heard statements in previous years that public spending cannot be cut, because this will lead to a reduction in domestic demand and that, in turn, will not be good for economic growth. After all, it is clear that it is not possible to continue spending more than there are incomes in Greece. In Greece, this borrowed welfare society will hopefully be over and socialism will end there. But what do you think is the probability that this memorandum, which we are going to approve here together, will carry out the goals it says?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U117	Thank you. It's hard for me to be a fortune teller. I'd rather be a part of it than the Riigikogu allows me to be a part of it. We go together every month, now almost every week, and we get an overview of things. We have supervisors in Greece. We know that auditing and other monitoring systems will be set up in Greece. There is no doubt that the information on the backlog is moving relatively quickly. Of course, we can say that the figures for the Estonian economy also come afterwards, but at least on political decisions, the pressure is very strong. The Verstapost is, of course, a spring election. Rather, the problem is how much pressure is put on the internal political situation in Greece and how extreme the electoral decisions will be. The consequences can be very painful both for the security of Greece and, of course, for Greece and for the European economy as a whole. But it is possible to react, the big parties have signed that they will continue the same line after the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U118	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! How precise is the data provided to us on the main indicators of the Greek economy? 1% of the price of one milk parcel is negligible, but 1% of the GDP of any country is, on the other hand, a huge sum for my humanitarian prosperity. On page 2 of the explanatory memorandum, the table shows the real GDP growth in Greece in 2011, which was There is talk of 7% in the media, and of 7% in the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday. Do these data simply change so quickly, are they inaccurate, or is it really an insignificant difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U120	Thank you. It's a big difference. More precise figures are, of course, on the budget deficit. They have been received more precisely on the basis of the basic budget and the cash register. You have the right observation that there is 6% on that table, but the press is already talking about 7%. But this 7% is off the record. There has been a lot of take-up on Greek statistics, and rightly so. However, I would argue that, since 2009, Europe has intervened vigorously here and that the Greek figures can be trusted, of course, apart from European and IMF controls. The statistics are still working there. It may not yet work perfectly on its own and there may probably be more anomalies than in another country, but in general we should trust these figures. There's no other bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U121	Please, Mr Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! They learn from mistakes, says the old people. The wise learn first and foremost from the mistakes of others. What should we learn and ignore from the mistakes made in Greece, the mistakes that have brought the country to the edge of the abyss and have left much discretion in this cradle of democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U123	Thank you. There are, of course, lessons to be learned. We can only be proud of the anniversary of the Republic. This policy, which we have been pursuing, can be cursed, and for me it can also be cursed by the remote control of Estonia, can be punished by politicians, but in general it has been the right policy. Overall, European policy is approaching what we have been doing for a few decades. We can actually be proud of our country. One thing is not living in debt, it's been basically useful. Greece still needs to achieve a primary surplus of almost 5% in order to obtain a brake on debt growth at all. It is close to 5% of GDP, not from the budget, but from GDP, which means that the right amount of spending in several major social areas will only go to banks. The fact that we do not live in debt is a victory, that is, money that we can use in the interests of our citizens. If you look at the reform plans, believe me, we could cancel several debates in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, because several countries, Greece among them, are now doing the things that we have done. This is about the tax system, where there is sharp confrontation, we are talking about some exceptions, the benefits that all experts recommend to all countries with budgetary problems. Rather, low rates and more uniform taxation are the right ones. There are no social or political matters to be dealt with in the course of taxation. This will result in money being thrown to the wind, and it will lead to unnecessary expenses. This money is not spent effectively. Let's just take a little thing like the consolidation of social funds. How many evil words have been used here against it! It's done. Yesterday we had a bitter debate on the collective agreement. It's a small matter to me. It is elementary that one agreement cannot be endless against the wishes of the parties. It didn't get too sharp, but it was getting sharp to make it look like some kind of harassment again. There have been posters on the street on this subject, too. That won't be necessary. Labour market relations are much more equal than has been shown politically. I am far from the view that these parties are equal, but it does not pay to present this inequality, let's say, the contractors substandardly, as is sometimes shown in political rhetoric or in demonstrations. Let's take the same demonstrations, the claim of rights. Whether or not we are setting the police on fire is a matter of style, but the content is still that it is believed that prosperity can be imposed with red slogans and demands. Well, it's not like that. Prosperity must be created and then political debates can be held on how to share it. This is the content of the political debate, but not that we insist, we go to the street, and that is the right thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U124	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U125	Today very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, As regards the memorandum under discussion, a number of demands have been made for Greece. I could not find out whether, for example, the payment of agricultural payments, or even the requirements related to the agricultural issue, had been made. Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U126	Please, colleague Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U127	Thank you. I don't think I understood you very well. Were we talking about the demands on Greece to pay fewer subsidies? I haven't noticed. Good question. All kinds of social expenditure have been mentioned, there have been various structural reforms, but I have not noticed the issue of agriculture. But in some places, you've also done a little haltura and you've read the diagonal, maybe you missed it or you missed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The structural reform plan presents quite a number of IT-related things with very ambitious deadlines, which have actually been done in Estonia in previous years. We mention the introduction of a digital prescription or a single accounting system, but also, for example, an e-procurement system. What prospect do you see in the implementation of our specialists, as well as of businesses, of these ambitious goals in Greece?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U129	Thank you! I generally believe that these prospects are quite exciting. We have done these things ourselves in the same direction or in the same direction, but we have not been very active in providing technical assistance to Greece. A few tax officials have been there and there is a separate project on e-government. These are areas where the effectiveness of the Greek state sector could be increased. I guess if that were possible, we wouldn't be sneaky.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U130	Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U131	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Finance! In the United States, the IRS is one of the most frightening words that is feared more than the police. In Greece, however, there is almost no respect for the tax administration there. My acquaintances in Greece say that the stronger the pressure from foreign countries, the less they simply pay taxes, the more you can still agree with the local tax administration. It is no secret that in the early 1990's, the Dutch helped us to build a very strong tax system so that taxes would actually be collected. Does Estonia and other European countries intend to send tax officials to Greece to help them increase their administrative capacity? The judicial system there will not finally be able to deal with these circumvention cases. Or do we just remain passive and wait and hope that these parties' signatures hold water?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U132	Thank you. We certainly will not remain passive, and we have sent a few officials from the IRS. I owe you an answer if they're there right now. But the topic of Greek tax collection is one of the focus of the entire programme. There's a lot of hidden money movement, cash flow. As I think I mentioned, cash taxes are banned. It's amazing it hasn't been done so far. I have seen some kind of paperwork, I hope that I am not wrong, that there will also be a ban on tax agreements between the tax officer and the taxpayer. The rights of the tax authorities will also be increased, and specialists will be recruited for this purpose. So money laundering, the shadow economy and tax evasion are very critical places. Of course, this is an important part of the whole tax reform, apart from extending the base and harmonising the tax system. There is another painful subject for which there is no very recent data. This is the taxation of wealthy people's income or hidden income through property tax. As we know, electrical bills were used to do this, but there was a lot of talk that it didn't work out. But the principle is clear: hidden money must be made public and taxed, even indirectly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U133	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U134	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is known that the third part of the loan package will be used to boost the Greek banks. In particular, a large part of the Greek government bonds are in the hands of the Greek banks, which need additional capital in order to be recapitalised. The initial scheme envisaged up to EUR 23 billion. While the explanatory memorandum states that this is a preventive security scheme, the explanatory memorandum also states that the potential needs of the Greek financial system are to be confirmed in the framework of the final programme at the beginning of March. Can you explain to us what the capitalisation of the Greek banks is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U135	Thank you. I don't know exactly. This also depends on the valuation of the assets. The Greek banking sector is certainly hit hard compared to the Nordic countries. He loses because of loan losses, simply because of the withdrawal of money, and now because of the write-off of debts. That's why this firewall is one of the most critical parts of the whole program. The cost of recapitalisation of banks is EUR 49 billion, and the amount of debt write-off, the so-called'sweetener sum' or the guarantee (I do not know how to say exactly, these options have been changed) is another EUR 20 billion. So financial stability is of particular concern in Greece. Everyone's gonna realize that if the system hangs, it's gonna go bad. But what is to be done is that these same banks have also financed Greece's excess living time for a long time. However, Greece's private sector debt burden is not high. Banks have pumped money into the public sector, which is essentially a foolproof and convenient way of making money. It can be said that there is too much power and too much financial sector involved. But, of course, this is not only an accusation against Greece, but also against banks in many other European countries that have done business with Greek bonds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U136	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U137	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As I understand it, 17 of the 27 Member States of the European Union are participating in this programme, which are members of the euro area. What are the other ten doing, and why are they not in solidarity with the euro? It is feared that there will be no new countries joining the euro in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U138	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U139	Thank you. As a member of the IMF, they are also at stake, but this is still primarily an undertaking for the euro area as a single currency area. This was an attenuating factor for us until 2010. Later, we've been betting directly, but we didn't go too far to offer that money. It is still a region more linked to stability than the rest of Europe. No one volunteered to do this. At present, the choice is not a matter of unwillingness or of a voluntary nature, but of a voluntary or collective nature. It's a collective decision. The rescue plan has been discussed for a long time, with a lot of money and software being invested in it. On this point, I think we should move forward. I think that the Estonian Parliament would also make the right decision if it supported it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I ask you to clarify point 5 of the explanatory memorandum, 'The effects of the decision, the costs and possible revenues', and to talk about Estonia's obligations and the sources of their fulfilment. Are we taking out a loan? Has it already been negotiated that if we take out a loan, which banks could be our partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U141	Thank you. We do not intend to borrow because of this programme. I have also said before that these are guarantees linked to the EFSF. In principle, the cover is EFSF itself. It does not address the first problem to the Member States, but the EFSF itself lends and tries to overcome the difficulties. The second is equity capital, which in this case is paid up from reserves. These are no longer Estonia's obligations. Sorry, I said EFSF, actually it's an ESM! We have a duty to the ESM to pay off the core capital. In the future, these loans issued are already an obligation of the ESM, as is the case with IMF loans are not loans from Member States. We can do this financially thanks to reserves, without a loan. That's a short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U142	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U143	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Listening to some of your previous answers, I remembered September when we discussed the EFSF Framework Agreement. The Social Democrats came to the aid of the government, we helped to eliminate certain legislative failures and finally to fill 51 votes. During this whole process, for some reason that we cannot understand, you attacked the social democrats and then, of course, did not apologize or thank us. Today, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip said at a government press conference that the government has had too little empathy and should be changed. You obviously haven't embraced this new doctrine. But now to my question. You said in answer to one of the previous questions that you must believe the best specialists and politicians should not be involved in divination. It was rather comicical to watch ministers argue for hours about whether Greece's debt should reach 120% or 120.5% of GDP by 2020. The ability of the IMF and other organisations to predict the impact of these measures on growth has been criticised. Do you think that the IMF and other institutions have made corrections, looking at economic growth, in the light of their past shortcomings in forecasting the impact of measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U144	Thank you. I didn't understand most of what you said. I do not know when I would have attacked the social democrats on this subject. I don't know, I don't know any such cases. If you feel that criticising Greece is a criticism of the social democrats, I can say from this point of view that there are differences between the Greek social democrats and the Estonian social democrats, indeed there are. Rather, the Estonian Social Democrats can relate themselves to the reforms made in Estonia and they do not have to be ashamed of the part they have been involved with. In some cases, of course, they could also be ashamed, if they are opposed to reforms. But it's your choice and your preference. Your preference is whether, for example, in the case of this Greek programme, you approve of these steps, which are also much being done across Europe for similar reasons. It's your choice. But I have never attacked a socialist EFSF. If you want to make any news here about how we had a conversation, it's possible. You can say something about my tie, you can have some headlines again. Empty seat, by the way. It wasn't an honest performance. What was your question? Has anyone adjusted? Yeah, it's been corrected. Finance ministers are not forecasting. If you think it was comical how the finance ministers argued, I don't think it was. It was really hard to sit there for so long, until morning. There was nothing comicic about it. But I'm saying you didn't see it. Why do you say it was comic?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U145	Please, Mr Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! Today's memorandum contains hundreds of measures, more than 250 or 300, with clear deadlines. Did you discuss it in Ecofin or in any of the formats that you had in mind when addressing your Greek colleague, wondering how all this is possible, for example, the 165 measures to be implemented in the first quarter of this year are administratively feasible for Greece? Did anyone ask you that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U147	I'm sorry, I didn't catch that key word! Filling what in? Was the point of the question whether the implementation of the memorandum was administratively feasible? There's a lot of work to be done. The Greek public sector, as I said, is not very effective. I can't say people are stupid out there, but there's still a lot of reforms going on. Technical assistance is one area where Member States provide assistance. It is very difficult to describe developments in a different way in the detail of a country, but I think that this plan is clearly in the right direction. There are very many parallels to Estonia's development since the 1990s and ending in times of crisis, actually ending in the last few months. There are very many parallels here in the choices we have made ourselves and what other European countries have done. In Europe, there is quite a common understanding of what should be done to ensure that the public sector and regulations are more broadly growth-friendly. On this basis, this programme has also been drawn up. The Greek Social Democratic Government would not have written this plan; they are used to a completely different practice. If you want to know about the Estonian Social Democrats, I can say that the Estonian Social Democrats participated in the same reforms that Greece is currently carrying out, certainly in the early 1990s and even later in certain episodes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U148	Please, Mr Kalla, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! It is likely that many of us today are inclined not to vote for this support, because it is very difficult to believe that this memorandum can be implemented. My question is the explanatory memorandum to page 2. The table below shows, for example, the minimum wage, which must be EUR 684 this year, even less than in 2007 when it was EUR 730. Last year it was 877 euros. Did ministers, when they discussed this memorandum, not for a moment have any doubt as to whether such a reduction in the minimum wage, which affects many people, would be possible in one year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U150	Did I understand correctly from the questioner that this is a huge drop in the minimum wage and too painful? Interestingly, I expected exactly the opposite question: how can employment with such a minimum wage be increased? This is what I, too, have said at meetings, along with other finance ministers: it does not correspond to Greece's level of prosperity; it does not correspond to the level of the Greek labour market. Of almost EUR 900, 22% is clearly small, but it seems to be quite politically large. For young people, as mentioned in the speech, this cut is 32%, a third, but the remaining salary is clearly too high. I think it's one of the weaknesses of the program, that too little is cut there. It is extremely difficult to create jobs with this productivity in Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U151	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The disbursement of this financial assistance does not take place as a whole, according to the information available, but on a piecemeal basis and, of course, strictly in relation to the timetable for fulfilling these economic policy conditions. Would you please explain how quickly and with what mechanism, for example, the lack of commitment actually affects the payment of contributions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U153	Thank you. Are you thinking about lending to Greece or what kind of contributions you're talking about, which side of the payments? The bottom line still means that there will be no instalments. But, of course, it will be assessed where this lag has arisen, whether it is due to the economic environment or to the political environment, i.e. Greece's own choices, of omissions. No, I'm not predicting what this consensus will be like. In any case, I had a much easier feeling from the last long debate, precisely because they did not give in. I was very afraid that European countries with a more relaxed attitude and a warmer climate could impose some compromise, because the decision had to be made. They didn't push it. The Nordic countries dominated their demands at recent meetings. So I don't see any relaxation right now, but you better watch out for yourself. It is very easy for politicians to feel that a decision has been made, that problems have disappeared and that it is more convenient to loosen up again. It's a very easy thing to do. I hope that this attitude will not spread among the finance ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U154	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U155	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In your answer to my first question, you tried to show that I am opposed to cuts and growth. I certainly would not do so in the case of Greece, but I think that although the programme under discussion is only a few years old, the target is set for 2020 and, in the long term, it is important for Greece's growth and competitiveness to improve the efficiency of the education system and the skills of the workforce. I therefore find it very regrettable that long-term measures are missing from this programme. My second question concerns the involvement of the private sector. This memorandum, which was distributed to us, stood at the date of 22 February, yesterday when private sector offers for the exchange of debt were accepted. Did it start yesterday or when it's gonna happen? What is your optimism, is the private sector willing to go along with this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U156	Thank you. First of all, from the previous answer. On your question, there was an argument that it would rather be needed instead of cuts. I referred to the part of the programme concerning education reform in my response. This is quite general, but also try to get an exhaustive description of the reform from Estonia at the moment of very tight negotiations. There were about six lines. The matter is being dealt with, but of course it will be clarified over time, and the key word is the effectiveness of the education system. Now for the private debt exchange. I don't think I've mentioned it in this hall, but at this meeting that lasted until this morning, there was a group of people in the back of the wall or ceiling that they were talking to in the meantime. They represented the private sector, in a simplified way, the International Banking Union, which gave its consent. We still argued one-tenth of the amount of debt write-off, interest. I didn't think it was comic. By the way, I don't think anyone thought it was comic. If Sven thought he was, he had to be a psychic. That was really hard. But if they put it on anyway, I have to be an optimist. I see no reason why a banking union, a solid international institution, should withdraw from the agreements. The thing is, some creditors don't volunteer to come along. There was also a plan to describe the situation that they would not be given this guarantee or a sweetener. It was rejected for legal reasons. Understood. It's probably very controversial that if you don't agree to the deal, you'll be punished. Of course, however, there was a chance for creditors that, even if no one agreed, we would still do so forcefully for everyone. This option was always there, and it was also in one scenario, even as a basic proposal from some countries. That's what it looks like to me. But a deal was sought, and that was achieved. I don't think there can be a retreat. Not right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U157	Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U158	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr. Minister! You called for support for the aid package and said that the aim was to prevent greater losses in the European economy. Why did the same government five years ago, at the beginning of the recession, not see the need to boost the Estonian economy and help Estonian entrepreneurs and not to introduce the reserves that stood in the German banks? We know how it all ended: in Estonia, the biggest recession in Europe was 15%. We now also have 50,000 unemployed, most of them long-term. Thousands of people have left Estonia. At present, the same government is ready to deploy these reserves in order to show solidarity with Greece and, if necessary, to pay out these reserves for Greece. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U159	Thank you. As the next minister of the government, I'd like to ask, Mrs. Palo, why did you do that? Minister of that government, why didn't you boost the economy? To your credit, this is one of the best decisions you've made in your life, that you didn't go to throw money into a real estate and consumption bubble. It would have been completely pointless. Estonia needed adaptation and Estonia did its quick adaptation. He commended you personally for being able to make these decisions! The process was, of course, abnormal in 2008, because these proposals should have come from the house where I am working now, but came from somewhere in the Crocodile Commission. It's abnormal. But it started in 2008, it started in 2009, which is why we were already a country with very good economic growth last year. Unfortunately, not everyone has done it. As a result, our economic environment is cooler and that is why, unfortunately, the prospects for our economy this year are minimal. But the reason isn't here in us. The decisions taken in these years enable us to be in a much better position than Europe as a whole, both at the level of individuals with lower loan burden and higher deposits, at the level of companies that have adapted themselves, have restructured themselves, and at the level of public finances. So congratulations to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U160	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U161	Thank you. To begin with, I do not know whether the debate on this draft is the most suitable place for such political narcissism. Speaking of Greece, it must be said that it is the majority of this Parliament, the largest party of which is the Greek Social Democrats, who is adopting this rather cruel document. But I hope the Minister knows that. My question is about the next steps. I admit, as far as we can tell today, that everything is not clear and that everything is still being debated. When we were dealing with the EFSF decision here, we were talking about what the future relationship between the stability mechanism and the EFSF will be. At the time, it was said that the EFSF would fulfil the obligations it would assume to the end and then some kind of merger could take place. What's the status now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U162	Thank you. There's no current situation, there's a prognosis. So far, the decision that the EFSF will end in 2013 and that there will be an agreement on this degree of formalisation, I hesitate, probably without parliamentary procedures, maybe something else, that the ESM will enter into force earlier. If this is the case, these two instruments will exist in parallel. My prognosis is that it will rather remain so. Listening to the latest news of the last day, I have started to feel that a great appeal to elevate the firewall may have an answer that does not increase the volume of the ESM, but the EFSF will not be allowed to die before. This may be an important signal to the markets that more can be done if necessary than is currently planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U163	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U164	Thank you. Minister of Finance! My question concerns the impact of today's decision on Estonia and the possible risk analysis. A few questions ago, you answered that, in the case of existing Greek debts, you argued about the write-off of the debt, and those disputes were very difficult. This means that the private sector has a real loss of up to 70% of the bonds currently due. Please describe this procedure! Currently, Estonia provides a guarantee on the loan. If Greece thinks that 70% or 53% of the loans can now be written off, will it relieve the guarantor of 53% of the bail-in or how will this procedure take place for future write-offs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U165	Thank you. First, the disputes over the write-off rate were 75% or 74% instead of 70%, and the mechanism is that 53.5% should be written off instead of 50%. That figure is, I believe, about 6:00 in the morning. This thing went almost a tenth of the time, interest will be reduced and the deadlines will be extended. In all of this, we are talking about a write-off of a size of 74 to 75%. What's a write-off? This is clearly the involvement of the private sector. Perhaps this expression seems inappropriate in this hall, but its international name is PSI. Public sector involvement is referred to as OSI (public sector involvement), i.e. public sector involvement, i.e. lending. The public sector provides loans, not non-repayable aid, lowers interest rates that have been agreed upon in the past. The central bank is giving up its profits that it has earned in Greece. In short, it is a political decision that he does not consider it to be making money. The public sector is the IMF, the central bank and the Member States. There's no mention of writing off. Nobody in the public sector is writing anything down, giving up some profitability, but the idea is not to make any losses. It's a deal, no loss. Nor do I see any country accepting any losses in the future. This loss will still be borne by the private sector, which went to Greece to make money. As a public sector, we only intervene to save and isolate the Greek problem from Europe and from ourselves and thus stabilise the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U166	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U167	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I'm going to ask you a question that certainly seems elementary to you as a specialist, but I was asked to submit it. There are somewhat different data in the press, but I would still like to use accurate, recent, authentic data. I'd write down these numbers right now, and if I use them, I'll refer to you as a source. In particular, what is the current debt burden of the Greek State and what is the private sector's debt ratio as a percentage of GDP?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U168	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U169	Thank you. I can't tell you how much private debt I owe you right now. I've seen the bill. This burden doesn't matter, it's very small. The Greek private sector has somehow managed to live like this. However, the public sector has survived, competed and actually drained resources from the private sector, there is no doubt about it. The public sector debt ratio is 160% of GDP. There's a lot of talk about it, there's no need for a specialist here. And what kind of specialist am I? What else was left unsaid? I guess that was it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U170	Thank you. I am negotiating seriously with myself here to believe in the real implementation of this package in Greece. During the discussions with the EFSF, a colleague also thought that accounting officers could be sent to Greece instead of financial support. If you read this text of the memorandum, you will soon feel the same way. The Estonian state is such a good, positive example in terms of the financial management of the state in Europe, and we also have a very good record of it. Has Greece really taken an interest at national level in the work of Estonia's austerity plans, our so-called Crocodile Commission, and have we offered to help them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U171	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U172	Thank you. I've tried not to be cocky and not to pose. It is certainly not Estonia that Greece is thinking about in this tense conversation. But I have, of course, cooled down these statements that Greece has done more than anyone else. It can be said that Estonia has continued to do more, faster and more efficiently, and has also achieved economic growth quite quickly. The situation in Greece is different. After all, they have an economy built on foreign money and domestic demand based on it. In any case, the effect of these cuts is a little different, but in time, it is still the same. Someone said it was Mrs. Tuus-Laul that the Greek economy had fallen less. I'm sure that's a bright point. I'm afraid it's gone too far. But the fall will be kept up a little bit with the outsider's money. At the same time, if this foreign currency has to be paid back, it will slow down future growth. Taste, whether quick decisions and short pain or long agony, which is now in Greece and which has actually caused a very great pessimism in society compared to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U173	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! Today, as I understand it, the launch of the aid package depends to some extent on the parliament of two euro-zone countries, i.e. the parliament of Estonia and Germany. I hope I've got it right. Since honest democracy is a relatively unforeseen process, I have the question: is it clear that if one of these two countries does not make this decision, for example, what is this back door or what is this scenario, how to proceed, or what will happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U174	If a country does not give its approval, this aid programme will not come and then, of course, the situation is exceptionally bad. Collectively developing this plan has nevertheless contributed to the perception of shared responsibility by everyone, and even to the perception of it by everyone in Greece, despite narrow political interests. In general, in a society where there is great pessimism, this situation is different, and helping themselves seems to be a difficult decision for them. The first thing is that Greece is not able to service its next loan payment, it is officially and uncontrollable insolvent, it does not have the money to pay for elementary expenses, it not only fails to pay the loan payments, it is also unable to pay for basic expenditure and the situation is completely new. The problems are much deeper. Our greatest fear has to do with the spread of this infection. These firewalls are not so high that the uncontrolled bankruptcy of a euro area Member State would not seriously harm the entire European economy, employment and investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U175	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U176	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The main question today is probably whether these guarantees and claims will be fulfilled in Estonia. I read the rating agency Fitch's assessment of this program yesterday and I dare say it will be 100% executed. I ask you, Mr Minister, the probability that Estonia will actually have to make this money is multi-ply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U177	Thank you. No percentage can be set here. I don't think this money's gonna get away with it. It's gonna come back. If it comes back in 30 years, it will still come back, it will come back with interest, and we have benefited basically by participating in the European solidarity mechanism and stabilising the European economy. It's actually an egotistical project. If we were altruists, we would give irrecoverable help and pat on the shoulder, but we are demanding creditors who are demanding reforms that Greece itself would never do. So there is no free choice here, it doesn't matter which party is in the majority. A friend of Eiki said that the Social Democrats are currently in the Greek government. Those in the government have no socialist, conservative or liberal face; they are technical enforcement and compliance. There's no party sign here anymore, I can assure you. Doesn't matter. Perhaps there is a different historical guilt, a different historical contribution in the sense of who has ruled for how long. But there is no political direction other than the introduction of rationality and savings and a strong diet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U178	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U179	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! If you look at the debates on the presidential elections in France in recent weeks, even during the days, one topic that has been quite strongly discussed is the same Greek and the aid package. Several opinions have remained in these debates that perhaps Europe is already strong enough to let Greece go. If the Sarkozy-Merkel line crumbles and there is a change in France (which is considered very likely, however), what are you predicting, how will the future of this entire financial plan change?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U180	Thank you. It would be difficult for me to foresee that the current favourite of the presidential election would somehow be more against this programme. Maybe I've overlooked something, but it seems that it's quite broadly possible to withdraw something from this support. The French have been much more enthusiastic consentors, and they have rather a reserve to get to Merkel or even more to get to Schäuble. I don't think the presidential elections in France can make any difference here. But under democratic conditions, taxpayers from different countries are, of course, a very high risk to the whole of Greece. You said the right thing at first. I can assure you that the effects of Greek bankruptcy are no longer so frightening. The losses have been largely taken into account, but they will continue to be important and outweigh the victim that has been decided to make in the form of lending money to Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U181	Please, Mr Borodich, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U182	Thank you. Good minister! All euro area ministers have repeatedly stressed that the rescue of Greece will first ensure financial stability and the credibility of the euro area as a whole. However, Greece has a very important role to play in the successful implementation of the programme: the Greek budget must be balanced, i.e. cuts must be made on the basis of a specific memorandum, economic reforms must be carried out, etc. Its guarantee should be strong monitoring of the implementation of the programme: if it does not, the money will not be received. At the same time, we all know that, without money, Greece is going to go bankrupt in the euro area, and I would stress that it is in the euro area that the stability of the euro area as a whole suffers again. Hence my question: how far are the countries of the euro area willing to go? What's Plan B? If Greece fails to comply with specific obligations, will it be expelled from the European Union, or will it continue to pump money into Greece in any case, because the fear of infection is too great?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U183	Thank you. The extent to which they are willing to go is now fixed in the agreement. I don't see any side bailing out. Taxpayers' boredom is perfectly understandable. Based on public opinion polls in different countries and when politicians give up their leadership role, then, yes, it will stop helping, I think, quite quickly. But it is the duty of politicians to bear this responsibility in accordance with their mandate and with the information and knowledge they have. Decisions must also be taken that do not necessarily bring votes in elections. I don't know if I answered your question, but that's how I understood it, or that's how I remembered it. There are too many of these questions, I cannot tell the difference between the introduction and the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U184	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U185	Thank you. Dear Minister, In your answer to one earlier question, you said that what the Greek Government is currently doing in carrying out cuts would not be done by the Social Democrats, leaving it conveniently overlooked that the Social Democrats are the biggest partner of this coalition. You rightly referred, of course, to the fact that today's major political parties, both the Papandréou Social Democrats and the Samaras centre-right, have made promises to Europe that these principles will continue to be respected after the elections. At the same time, it is known that both parties do not perform very strongly in public opinion polls. You said that, like in Estonia, there is no great public love for these steps, neither in Greece. Are and what guarantees and what are foreseen for when elections should be sufficiently successful for these parties now rising on both sides of the political landscape?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U186	Thank you for your polite question. I thought we were gonna be playing words here. But I'm still gonna make a correction. You must have been out of the hall. I said, yes, the Greek Social Democrats would not do this voluntarily, they will do it in fear of death, and they have no choice. I also said that the Greek Social Democrats no longer have any political distinguishing marks. They're saviors, they're driven by a lack of choice, and they wouldn't have made those choices themselves. That's pretty clear. The result is also what you added that opinion polls do not do well for them. There's a risk. Both major parties, Néa Dimokratía and Pasok, have paid a heavy political price. On the other hand, Greek society, let us say, has a visible instinct of survival, and two thirds of people support this economic package. If you ask about political parties, but about the economic package, it turns out that two thirds support it and even more support for staying in the euro area. There are risks. Risks are also mentioned among finance ministers. In the press, we did not really want to have a public debate about this, that Greece has been advised to postpone the elections so that extremists would not prevail in this confusion. That's what we've been talking about. But there has also been a clear desire not to put any direct pressure on political decisions, which is the announcement of elections. Everyone knows that the first risk is the Greek elections. That is why signatures have been taken from the major parties, and there is nothing to do with the small ones. Greek political parties are divided behind the tables where I go to consult, into pro-European ones and those who cannot be agreed, who are not interested in it, who oppose themselves to Europe, at all, to all capitalism. So much for these few parties, however, has an ideological face that some are pro-European; others are important to themselves. But yes, there's supervision to mitigate the risks. A special account has been created to use the money, i.e. a thorough report must always be made before the transfer, an analysis of whether or not the next transfer is due. Greece will not be able to operate in Europe if it simply whistles on debts. Greece is so strongly linked to Europe. I do not see Greece having this choice, I will be honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U187	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U188	Thank you. Question for you, Jurgen. Why should we pay for socialist nonsense? Let's forget for a second that you're a minister. Please assess whether you think this is a crisis of socialism or capitalism.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U189	Thank you, Juku, for this question! But I'm afraid if you ask me that, one side of the hall will fall down and start accusing us together of being arrogant and bully. I've been trying to tell the difference. This is certainly a socialism crisis. This is a typical example of where the state has constantly instilled in its citizens that it is almighty, but the citizen is weak, and the state has created guarantees for citizens that it will never be able to pay for, and it has, of course, done so with foreign money. So it is either a crisis of socialism (or a word with a similar sound) or, let us say, a crisis of a welfare state. But there are quite a number of similar signs in Europe. I am pleased to speak on behalf of the Estonian Government and the Estonian Parliament. We still have a chance to avoid big mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U190	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U191	Minister, thank you very much. The tendency that you consider yourself a god is a cause for great concern. Believe me, you have no information about what the best decision of my life has been, you don't know it, you have no way of knowing, but you have said that you know what the best decision of my life has been. That is a real concern. But since you didn't answer my question earlier, I'll ask you again. Please tell me why the government, which believes that the market will put everything in place, the stronger survives and the weaker do not have to survive, pursues the same policies in Estonia, there is no talk of solidarity, there is no talk of aid packages, but there is a different policy outside Estonia. What's with all the duplicity? What's it coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U192	Thank you. I'm just really sorry. You could still have thought through how you formulate the question and what you are saying. Estonia has been rational in its decisions. Solidarity is also part of rationality. It is simply a question of guiding solidarity. We are primarily focusing our solidarity on those who really need it, not on those who could count on it in vain. As far as Greece is concerned, I have repeatedly said that it is not with an easy heart that we make this choice, but it is easier for our heart that we ourselves are in a much more optimistic position and do not make a personal sacrifice. We, i.e. the preparers of this draft, have been debating this programme, do not think that money will not come back from Greece. We know exactly that financially, it will not hurt us in any way that is incurable. We still have to keep the running costs under control, but for this project we have so-called one-off reserve money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U193	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U194	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Looking at this memorandum, I see that quite a number of measures and actions have been marked with deadlines that must have been made by that time or by that time. Quite a lot to see in February, March and April. This means that in fact, some activities must be already in progress or in the final phase. I will open page 7, which states that the hardware of the new data centre must be set up and operational by the end of March 2012. This means that there must already be some kind of public procurement, etc. I hope they buy these things in public procurement. Do you have any information on that? Will any activities already be carried out or will Greece only start all these activities when the signatures are on paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U195	Thank you. I, too, conclude from these deadlines that these activities are already underway. I have no doubt that the Greek State will work before these critical votes. There is no doubt that Greece is a living country. After all, the aid scheme started in spring 2010. The way they accurately reflect events in the near future may be different, but they certainly want to reflect them all, including those that are already in work and will be realised in the near future on the basis of earlier decisions. There is no doubt about that. The technical assistance provided by Estonia shows that the aid has already been adopted on e-state and tax issues. I know little of these facts in particular, but these steps seem to be on the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U196	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U197	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I thank you for your constructive answer to my previous question on the Greek debt burden. Now I ask the same question about Estonia, because here, too, different figures have been published. I'd like to get some relevant information from you. Namely, what is the current debt burden of the Estonian state and what is the debt burden of the Estonian private sector as a percentage of GDP?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U198	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U199	This question about the private sector has been raised at a slightly poor moment. The debt burden of the Estonian state is slightly above 5% and has been in decline recently. As regards the private sector, the private sector's debt burden relative to GDP is concentrated in modest averages. We're standing pretty tight. Certainly, the private-debt ratio is clearly to the detriment of private debt, i.e. the private sector has more debts, but if we compare with other countries, Estonia is in the middle of Europe. I was looking at those charts this week, but I'm afraid to say the percentages right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. As is well known, the Greek Government has not complied with all previous agreements and promises, and this increases the possibility that they will not do so on a case-by-case basis. The payments to Greece are made in instalments and it is also possible that disbursements will be suspended at some stage. What is this decision-making mechanism, and which body decides to suspend it? Is this the European Commission, the so-called troika or someone third or fourth?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U201	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U202	Thank you. That's a good question. The mechanism is through the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance will of course report to the Riigikogu. This is operational through the European Union Affairs Commission and the Government. The power to stop this aid is for finance ministers, but they are not, of course, independent figures. They are very interested that what they have said to their Parliament will hold water.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U203	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I will listen to this debate, and I will inevitably have the question whether, at your informal meetings, such as the evening behind a glass of tea cup or red wine for me, you have discussed with other finance ministers, in addition to the Greek aid package, the possible departure of Greece from the euro zone, which would actually give them the opportunity to devalue their currency?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U204	Thank you. I have to admit that the finance ministers are not meeting informally, we do not have time for this. We come from a plane, we sit together, we usually arrive at a hotel late at night, and then we continue in the morning, and then we hurry on the plane. There are almost no breaks or informal conversations. However, in these few cases, when we have got together informally, there have, of course, been voices who have boasted more and found that Greece needed a more severe adjustment, i.e. not the vigorous economic recovery that has been offered here too. I tend to support this wing, which thinks that Greece needs more severe adjustment, but I am defending a collective and very difficult agreement here, and I represent European decisions and proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U205	Please, Mr Lember, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U206	Thank you, manager. Good minister! You said earlier that the Greek Social Democrats are forced to support this package, i.e. their national cut-off, because of fear of death and, I think, because of the preservation instinct. Should the members of the Estonian Riigikogu be terrified of death and seized by the preservation instinct to press the green button to support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U207	Thank you. The members of the Estonian Riigikogu should certainly not be terrified of death. Speaking of death, I quoted Greece's own language, as has been said in the Greek media. But we should be afraid and be sure that the setback through investments in export markets would be very tangible in Estonia. What Estonians should feel in this Parliament should feel like Europeans. So far, being mainly a European recipient of non-refundable aid, we now have a good opportunity to show ourselves as a giver, even if the recipient has been naughty, by discussing the amounts of future non-refundable aid in Europe. Let us be generous and then define ourselves as pro-European, just as the majority of the Greek Parliament is defined quite internationally today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U208	Please, Mr Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In European solidarity, which you are talking about very nicely, countries are participating according to their economic capacity. After all, the wealth and economic capacity of countries vary. There are also different attempts by countries to show themselves worse or better or even better. I am interested in one very simple principle: is it the case that those countries that are able to demonstrate their economic progress somewhat more than the real ones can also participate in the aid package that we are working on today with a greater contribution than those who are not embellishing their data?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U210	Thank you. I can tell you from the heart that there is no more massive glossing of data in European statistics. It's in the past. It has become such a sensitive subject that even I have had a few very painful experiences of doubting it. While we were discussing the statistical law, in spite of my efforts to eliminate all, say, grammatical risks, there was still a chance to send a message to Europe, as if we wanted to essentially subjugate Statistics Estonia. It is, by the way, one of my great disappointments that this has been done in Estonia. I've never even been able to extract data from Statistics Estonia before. This is such a sensitive subject in Europe! Statistics are not the wrong third species, certainly not in Europe; they simply need to be interpreted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U211	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U212	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! European solidarity is personally sympathetic to me, and the joint efforts of the countries of the euro area clearly deserve recognition. On the other hand, there is no solidarity in Europe on all matters; Estonia, for example, is faced with a clear injustice regarding direct payments to agriculture, but that is why. Good Minister, can you be sure that this draft memorandum fulfils its objective that Greece will succeed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U213	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U214	Thank you. My confidence, however, is that a system has been created in which we ourselves participate. We can't be sure of our own work, but we know that the conditions for this work are in place. As far as European solidarity is concerned, even today we discussed in the government how to increase it from the point of view of our interests. Sounds funny. It is in our interest to have greater solidarity with regard to the agricultural subsidies that are denied there. How do we achieve this? Even here we need to be careful with rhetoric, these papers were formulated in such a way that we do not seem to be in the narrowest interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U215	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'm here, hi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U216	I listened to you and Juku-Kalle Raid's ideological bee story about turtledoves, the idea of which was to offend my political family. Minister of Finance, who do you really think you are, a new canned stone or a liberal? And then: in view of what ideology did you make a crucial, binding decision for the Republic of Estonia to help Greece?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U217	How could I not know?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U218	Thank you. First of all, I'd rather reduce Juku-Kalle's rather crude wording. That's right. I'd rather show regret that it might hurt you. But he was talking about socialism, he wasn't talking about social democracy, and neither did I, so don't put yourself in a vulnerable position. On what basis did I make a decision? I haven't made any personal decisions. I have relied on the powers given by the government, and I have also relied on the rather friendly discussions that have taken place here in the Riigikogu on the issue of the EFSF, which, after all, gives this general framework now and which obliged this memorandum to come here as well. To the Social Democrats, I say that when my friend Sven had the impression that I had attacked them, I, on the contrary, was pleased that the old days were back, where we can talk about the pro-European part of the Estonian Parliament. I had no desire at all to attack the social democrats. There are moments where I agree with you, and in terms of Europeanity, I have been in agreement. I have not exceeded my mandate, and I am not stupid enough to know that Parliament is voting on this memorandum and has a veto right as one of the 17. I can simply draw your attention to the fact that if the necessary votes do not come together in the Estonian Parliament, it is quite clear that we are the only one who decides otherwise, not in favour of supporting Greece. I really thought that our autumn debate was fruitful, and the differences were only about how to act, what opportunities are already in the law. I say that the possibilities in the law are sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U219	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have been talking here all along that we should deal with the fire that started in Greece and put that fire out. We've laid a firewall so this infection doesn't spread. However, we know that there have also been very good preventive instruments. This preventive instrument has been, in particular, the Stability and Growth Pact in force in Europe, according to which all Member States should have lived. For some reason, this pact was not followed, all the demands were weakened and Greece was insolvent and other Member States too have very high debts. A new memorandum has now been drawn up, new agreements for the Member States and, in particular, Greece, in order to meet all these requirements. Where is the risk of slipping this time, so that the memorandum will not be filled out and it will get worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U221	Thank you. The risk of slipping lies in the democratic admission or inadequacy of extreme views; there is no such danger elsewhere. As far as the Stability and Growth Pact is concerned, I do not know how much my predecessors did, but I did so by grasping the portfolio band in various parts of Estonia and in different fora, quite a lot of explaining work on how it really has not been completed. I can even say that I got an alibi with it, no one can say that I would not have warned you that the public finances of Europe are in the hands of problems by promoting the euro zone. But, of course, I didn't know how to expect such a sudden change as it has been. In 2009, the debt crisis was not yet visible; only the financial crisis was visible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U222	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When you answered my previous question about how information reaches national parliaments, it goes through the Minister and ELAK. I'm going to be a little more specific about my last question. If Greece fails to comply with what was agreed in the memorandum, what is the decision-making mechanism, which body at EU level will decide on the possible suspension of payments to Greece?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U224	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U225	Thank you. I would argue that, very briefly, it is a Eurogroup, i.e. ministers throughout the euro zone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U226	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In one response, you mentioned that many European colleagues have recognised that Greece deserves to be treated even more harshly. Would you mind telling me which countries representatives think that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U227	I mean, it was a matter of conversations. I can say that it was the Minister of Finance of a country that was traditionally regarded as a socialist that I heard it from in a very graphic way last time. But we're not always discussing that now. Almost all countries have comparable problems, excessive debts, excessive debt servicing costs, very many compulsions, very many reforms in the same direction. Let us say, then, that there is no commitment to Greece's cursing, but that it is concerned about how to cope on its own, not about knowing anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U228	Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U229	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! How important is it to take the opinion of the majority of the people into account when making this decision? Or doesn't it matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U230	Thank you. I am always proud of governments and parliaments who are able to distance themselves from public opinion in cases where their knowledge and conscience dictate different decisions, who are not dragged by public opinion, but try to clearly justify their preferences. They have been given a mandate to do so. I simply see self-interest in this kind of politics, which is dragging out of public opinion. Parliaments, governments must, in some way, be leaders, but of course they must also be in clear contact with the public sector, and they will not be given the opportunity to shun it for a long time if the voter does not have real trust in their professionalism and conscience. So there's no percentage here. I think we need to build trust and be professional in our trades. In that case, voters will also be able to admit that there is someone who is smarter than them in a particular case and who can be given a mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U231	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U232	Jürgen, I have a feeling we're not exactly sharing right now, which means'solidarity'. In itself, this should mean that the stronger supports the weaker. We are one European cultural area, but yet the standard of living varies from place to place in Europe and we can rely on our standard of living. I have this feeling that it is now that the great Peter eats little Peter's bread with a bag of bread out of pure solidarity. Jürgen, I have a question not for you as a minister, but for a person: tell me, is it ethical that we support it, given the Estonian citizenry?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U233	Thank you. I'm not allowed here as a remote person, and ministers aren't considered a human being, either, a politician. However, if you still want my gut to come into the verbatim, I still interpret it as a solidarity with Europe and also with the euro zone as a system, not with a particular naughty one. With regard to a particular naughty one, I have some sympathy and a very strong critical feeling. But I think that the decisions that have been developed together, of which I do not know better, are the ones that should go along with them, and then it doesn't really matter whether the one who is in trouble is wealthier or poorer than us. I actually like it, and I think it's pretty good to bring a country back from the road. It is very ethical to reform countries. With regard to Greece, we can say that high wages and social costs, but also non-reform, and we will then have to correct this situation. Looking at their non-existent growth, their dark future, their high price level, their weak competition, it can be said that these Greeks live nothing better than us. Their mood is black, their conscience is torturing, they're vicious, they're looking for the guilty. I think that our emotional state is still far greater wealth than their somewhat higher purchasing power wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U234	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U235	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Let's say that today the government can accept this memorandum from the Riigikogu, but one day it will become clear that Greece will still not meet these requirements, and it will be decided to suspend aid. Will the good Minister of Finance come before the Riigikogu with a request that we suspend this decision, or will you take the decision in Brussels and therefore ignore the Riigikogu decision with which we have given permission and wish to help Greece? What kind of a mechanism is it if assistance really needs to be stopped?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U236	Thank you. I would not have expected such strong support for Greece from your mouth. However, the mechanism is still such that I am accountable to the government and to Parliament (I regularly report to Parliament through the Committee on European Affairs). I'm not a free radical. But I am, yes, the one who has to make his decision at the table. It is, of course, difficult to predict at what point the so-called wire is being pulled out, whether it is necessary. Every effort shall be made to ensure that this need does not arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U237	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U238	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I will continue with my previous question. In making this decision, it would be wrong to take into account the wishes of the majority of the people. So politicians have not been chosen here to do the will of the majority of the people, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U239	Thank you. Politicians have been chosen here to carry out their mandate. Politicians are not obliged to drag after public opinion polls, but to act on their knowledge and conscience. And this knowledge and conscience must be shown to the electorate both during the elections and on the run. That's it! We need to make decisions based on inner feeling and not keep our skin, thinking about what is more popular and what seems more effective. Most people do not really know much about the situation or the risks in Greece, and so there are most of the questions we are discussing here. So this is a relatively difficult overall impact to describe, which public opinion must have on us. We must not, of course, aim to oppose public opinion, but we could be so sacrificial about ourselves that we dare to shape public opinion by justifying our decisions and taking personal risks that deny it. Every time we deviate from public opinion according to our conscience, we take a personal risk and that gives us an excuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U240	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U241	Thank you very much. At the very beginning of the debate, you also mentioned security risks. If you look at Greek history, there have been three such episodes of bankruptcy in the 19th century, and if memory doesn't deceive me, the black colonels brought something like this to power in the 1960s. If such a scenario were to take place and, in essence, Greece whistles at the other European Union, would it not happen that we would be left with all those bonds and interest, which would be a much more appalling scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U242	Thank you. I don't know now that these bonds could be ours. However, the 1960s were also a relatively barbaric time in Europe today. To imagine a junta now, to imagine chaos in some European countries would be extremely difficult. It has really been a strong motivation for Europe's top politicians, and it is not intended to think about the possibility that history will return to this not-a very large island of democracy in the world. That's definitely one reason. There are a number of selfish considerations as to why aid programmes are drawn up with personal economic profits, national economic profits, but there are also such European, democratic considerations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U243	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, as with the previous question, the debate has gone a lot on how strong Europe is to give Greece freedom, or more precisely, how prepared it is to admit that Greece does not fit into the euro zone. The second debate has been about what it would entail if Greece were to be pushed out of there, which authorities could then meet, for what reasons and how to win the elections. My question, however, would be that. One of the debates, at least in English, and especially in American publications, is that Europe is actually going to help its few large banks. What do you say to explain who we then support, either Greece or the big German banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U245	Thank you. Hand to heart, I don't think we're saving German banks. In fact, it is exceptionally gruesome, knowing these considerations, let's say, behind closed doors, how the Germans are depicted with some kind of historical symbols, how they are accused and attacked in a country that is actually dependent on their generosity. The German people, let us not mention the word 'people', and public opinion is not positive for Greece either. German politicians are very worried that they will suffer the historic guilt of failing Greece. I don't know, I may have missed the question, I started, but... Do we support banks? As far as I know, German banks have minimized the losses of Greek bonds, and if Germany wanted to save its banks, it would be cheaper for it. Rather, Germany is magnanimous now. Swallows the humiliation and injustice he is experiencing in Greece and tries to give Greece a chance. We are giving Greece a chance. That's what we're doing or trying to do right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U246	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U247	Good minister! I'm reading this memorandum, and there are a lot of very good things here. I want to draw attention to a pleasant moment, but I'm not sure I noticed correctly. It says: 'Signatured in Brussels in triplicate in English. ' Tell me, please, have the finance ministers finally managed to put a stop to the excessive and uncontrollable proliferation of French in the institutions of the European Union? That in the end, we've come to the right language? If so, it is an achievement!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U248	Thank you. For me, Estonian is the right language, and I would not be too angry with the French if they kept their own language. Sometimes it has been annoying for a Frenchman to give a speech in French to a clearly English - speaking group, and selfish. Most ministers don't do that. I can honestly say that among the finance ministers there is a pleasant surprise; Christine Lagarde was emphasized in English when she slipped, then she corrected herself. At the same time, the right representatives of several countries, such as the Luxembourg and Belgian ministers, are bowing down to the French, as have the Greeks. Rather, there is a respectable and dominant way to speak in a language that everyone at the table can understand. I can't say that Ecofin doesn't understand English, but at the table, yes, they do. And it's a positive, good feeling when you hear the French Minister of Finance voluntarily speaking English. It's just generous. The new Minister of Finance is not that English, however.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U249	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U250	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, It is known that the processing procedures in Europe are different, in some countries it is the government's domain, in others it is the parliamentary domain. What's your position? Which is more correct, should this issue be the property of the government or of the parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U251	Thank you. I think that this is, in any case, Parliament's place to debate. The main work will be done by a specialised committee that receives information every week. In the big hall, the matter is sometimes fluctuating, sometimes the performer gets hurt, sometimes the performer loses his nerve. However, the emphasis could be on professional organisations and executives, on parliamentary control, not so much on parliamentary decision-making. The specialist committee is where this process should be conducted, it is all right, but it is not constantly from the big hall. With the IMF, we don't require that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U252	Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U253	Thank you. Greece undertakes to implement certain ex ante measures to mobilise the funds. What is the status of these pre-measures: is it realistic to implement them according to plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U254	Please, Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U255	Thank you. The checks are real, and a separate Eurogroup meeting will be held on 1 March, where they will be reviewed. The commitments are made, the promises are made, the signatures are made. It'd be pretty startling if it went any other way. The deadlines are very short.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U256	Thank you. Good minister! If you read the package of reform measures aimed at improving the business environment, you can find surprising gems. For example, a law prohibiting the sale of goods at a price below cost is repealed, or the opening hours of petrol stations are set off completely. But that's it. In fact, I wanted to ask about the use rates of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund and the deadlines for using the money. It has been said here to complete the unfinished projects that have been carried out in 2000-2006. The closure documents for the 2007 operational programme. The same is true of the Cohesion Fund. Has Greece been granted any exceptions? We can use the money two years after the end of the period. It is now 2012 and the Greeks can still use this money. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U257	Thank you. I can't comment on that detail. However, benefits have been granted to programme countries and, for example, they may also have a co-financing rate of 5%. Here, as many reliefs as possible have been sought out of stone. I don't rule out this is what this is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U258	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U259	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Finance! I am in favour of solidarity, which, indeed, we can see little in Estonia. When comparing the European Union with the family, Estonia should also act as a state in such a way as to help those in need. However, if you look at the situation apart from the cuts, the Greek unemployed will live better tomorrow than the Estonian unemployed today. But it was more of a comment. My question is whether the Estonian Government has suddenly explained too little to the people and has been very far away from the people, that there are such opposite opinions. Perhaps it should explain what one option means when this package is supported and what does it mean if it is not supported? People listen to these talks from the speaker, but in real life, the situation is quite different.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U260	Thank you. I guess that's our hard task of explaining. I feel like I've been on the subject for two years, always talking. But I know I can't find my way to most people, and I can't find my way to their hearts. I'd rather feel like I'm stupid. I'm talking about helping some country that's done everything backwards compared to what I've done. So we're still talking, we're always talking, but even the listener has a responsibility and a choice if he wants to listen. We'll talk. I can't say it hasn't been said. It is quite right, however, to point out that this is our task, i.e. to talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U261	Please, Lauri Laasi, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U262	Thank you. Dear Minister, Yesterday I happened to hear on the newscasts several times how you stressed that this was not about giving money to the Greeks, but about lending. But it's customary for every loan to have a price. What would be the interest if this loan were to apply, and what would be the price of the money we lend to the Greeks?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U263	Thank you. The price of the loan shall be determined by the cost of the own contribution of these funds, EFSF and ESM. There's sometimes a very small margin, I'm a little afraid to say how many percentage points. I need to refresh my memory. There has been a lot of talk about interest, but lately mostly the interest that is applied to written-off debts starts at 2%. This is essentially a negative real interest in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U264	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U265	Thank you. Good minister! I will continue with the question of my colleague, Mr Hunt, because I myself have had to explain exactly the same thing to different groups, older and younger, and yesterday, by the way, almost half an hour to one of your partymates, perhaps for months, and not to a minor partymate, not to a Member. That is why I ask you not to speak as you said before, i.e. why it is useful for Greece and why we are helping a country, but to say sincerely with a few sentences why this step is beneficial for the people of Estonia and for the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U266	Thank you. Let's just say it's not useful for sin. If you focus on a very petty interest, to think about it in the short term, it is, of course, a contribution that you would like to avoid. But if you think about it a little more broadly, first of all, it is still part of a joint European venture. It's not some hollow pathos, it's a reality. As a beneficiary of the aid ourselves, it would be unspoken if we were now the only one, probably the only one of the 17 noses, to say that we have received non-refundable aid, as well as the non-refundable aid that we will receive in the future, real negotiations are currently under way, how much money we will receive in the next period is not enough to grant someone a loan of a much smaller amount. As an economist, I say that real damage in terms of jobs and loss of investment would be more than likely to be caused by the chaos of Greece. And there she will no doubt go if she can't finance basic expenses. We could get that money back in circles. Not through their own banks, as some other countries may have more opportunities to get. Not through direct trade links, but through other countries, including Germany, to which we ourselves are accustomed to sending our goods. Of course, through investments. If the atmosphere is anxious, if there is uncertainty and everyone knows that others are insecure, then investments will be stopped. But we need investments to keep our standard of living growing, not falling. So it's not a one-word, very pragmatically speaking thing, it's a bit longer, and it's our job to try to say it easier than I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U267	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U268	Thank you. Minister of Finance! When we debated the EFSF in this House in the autumn, the main argument was that Greece is not yet concerned. Now here's the decision that Greece will be a customer. You have been thorough in your answers and given such an overview that the euro zone is in a relatively dark situation, the visibility is quite low. But can you at least give us confidence in this respect that more of you in front of the Riigikogu with a new client, with a country that is not Greece, will no longer come to the conclusion that the list of clients is locked up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U269	Thank you. There's no way I can afford it. I certainly can't allow that. It has been difficult for us to present the EFSF and listen to all the criticism around it, because denying that Greece would be a customer once, could not, but to give the impression that it was already a customer, or certainly would not, at that time or even recently, it was not certain. However, the baseline scenario was that the bilateral programme would continue. That is exactly what you described: as long as it has not been decided, we cannot say that we are talking about Greece, we were talking about EFSF. New clients. This probability is, of course, much higher if the Greek vote fails. Then it is quite certain that the fragile countries of southern Europe will be hit hard, and perhaps not only in southern Europe. I don't mean Northern Europe, but I'm not going to be specific. After all, what Riigikogu gave the mandate or undertook to do with the decision of the EFSF was memoranda of understanding, if I now correctly translate. We still have to come here with them. If, for example, a new memorandum comes in Portugal or Ireland, we will still come back to this hall. But I hope that countries will not be added that we can... The head of the Euro Commission shakes his head, he will take the floor, and he will disprove my statements. But in a broad way, new programs should come through here. Certainly, however, there must not be the impression that the ESM will be voted on in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U270	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U271	Thanks for the word! Minister, thank you very much. You have spoken so nicely today about Europe's common values and that we must have faith in Europe's common future. In short, about the solidarity that you, as a senior liberal, are pleased to hear, my soul sings about it. But by this solidarity, do you mean solidarity, above all, with the Greeks or with the Germans and the French?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U272	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U273	Thank you. I meant, as I said once, solidarity with Europe as a whole. I am not looking for individual countries and, of course, in the case of Greece, it is strongly linked with a critical sense. And, of course, when I speak of solidarity, I cannot fail to remember that I also feel indebted to Europe, still indebted. Europe made a major decision when it decided to expand. If he had made referendums and worked a little hard, this expansion would not have been if we had been shown to be a dangerous and suspicious Eastern European country. I do not think that NATO or the European Union would have expanded. I remember that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U274	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Well, since there was a mention of my head shake, I'm going to be more specific about the verbatim. The Riigikogu decided that for each new country that comes to the EFSF for help, a decision will be made in a large hall. However, should changes be made to existing national programmes, and in this case they are not so much called a new programme, but, above all, a programme change or something like that, it is not necessary to come to the large hall, they can be discussed by the European Union Affairs Commission. Well, it's a question right now, but I'd like to cancel the question. However, perhaps you would like to conclude by saying something that was not said during this whole debate, or you would like to put something to Parliament before making this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U275	I'm sure I want to thank you! I am sorry that, somewhat unexpectedly, a couple of ambassadors were evil, even though they weren't evil with the EFSF. But in general, it's been constructive. I want to ask for support for this decision. It's not pleasant for anyone. It is not a personal or party project; it is clearly a European project. So I ask you to accept and ask you not to focus on my person or my performance, but on what I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U276	Thank you, Valeri Korb, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U277	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We know that Greece will soon have elections that will bring about a new parliament and a new government. Can you predict what will happen if the new higher bodies of the country, I mean the government and Parliament, take a new political direction that is different from today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U278	Thank you. This was also discussed. Two large political parties were made to sign a promise that they would continue after the elections. Indeed, as I mentioned, it was also said that perhaps in a confused situation it would be more practical to have elections later in order to prevent the extremes from ruling. But that would have been too much pressure if it had been a condition. It is a concern, but since 2/3 of Greece's public opinion understands that either the aid programme or the death rate is worded in this way in Greece, these are not my words, there is hope that they will also make a European decision in the elections. They sense responsibility for the helpers, let themselves be helped, let themselves be reformed and Europe move forward without crumbling. But yes, the subject actually exists, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U279	Any more questions for the Minister? No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Next, I would like to ask Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable guests! The Committee on Finance discussed a draft decision 185 at its meeting on 22 February. At the beginning of the debate, the chairman of the committee drew attention to the fact that we have dealt with the issues of the Greek programme before in the Commission, as far as we have had information. During the meeting, the Minister of Finance and Tanel Ross from the Ministry of Finance answered the questions. The Minister also explained the situation in the Commission in detail, just as he did here today. Talked about how the Eurogroup and other decision-makers have gradually reached agreements, including the private sector, which is also involved in this matter, and that it was quite difficult to fit the entire Greek programme into this EUR 130 billion. Before the Monday meeting of the Eurogroup, EUR 136 billion was discussed. Of course, the Minister's review of the decisions just taken by the Greek Parliament was also appropriate. The Minister explained the sources of the money given to Greece. Estonia's contribution will then depend on it, as the sources are EFSF and the future ESM. The Minister explained the content of the programme to us, paying attention to the issues of Greek labour law. The Minister also spoke of the fact that other finance ministers in the euro area complained a lot about Greece's relatively high wages, but of course they admitted that in many countries, let us be honest, for example in the Netherlands, wages are not very low compared to productivity. The concern in the Minister's review was whether economic growth would still recover, as the main problem of the Greek economy is a relatively small part of foreign trade. Regrettably, at least to date, the main source of growth has been external loans and domestic turnover. Members of the Commission asked questions, and the question immediately was whether Greece would be able to fulfil its promises and how confident it can be with today's knowledge. The Minister explained that the objectives have indeed been set in the light of today's knowledge and forecasts. I myself asked for an explanatory statement on some of the points in the draft decision. Even if, according to the explanatory memorandum, the Greek economy is falling by 6%, but yesterday the Greek Statistical Office published information that the actual economic downturn in 2011 was over 7%, namely 6,7%. These nuances, of course, must be addressed in the explanatory memorandum. The situation in time really does change. I also asked about the size of the IMF's stake, which is indicated in the explanatory memorandum at 30 billion. In fact, as the answer was, the IMF's contribution to this project is between 16 and 17 billion. However, if you consider the remainder of the previous programme, where there are up 10 billion for the IMF, then the order of magnitude is close to what was stated in the explanatory memorandum. One Member of the Commission asked whether this draft requires 51 votes in favour. The Commission's position was that this is not the case, a simple majority is sufficient. The same Member of the Commission had a number of other questions. One was that if the loan is granted to Greece under strict conditionality, how can it be verified that these conditions are met? Respondents explained that auditors' teams would go there, and the funds would, of course, be allocated through a special account. The question was also about the deadline for the EFSF itself to raise financial resources on the markets and who will decide on it. Here the members of the Commission received an explanation that the Fund has its own management, which is not very large, but clearly has strong specialists. So far, the funds mobilised by the EFSF from the financial markets have not been very long-term. They asked what would happen if the EFSF did not receive money from the market. The explanation was that, in this case, the money cannot be given to Greece either, because the EFSF must first obtain the money itself and only then can it continue to borrow. The total amount of Greek loan liabilities was also asked. The answer was over EUR 300 billion. In this context, a brief summary of the debate in the Commission was exhausted and the Commission made its proposals. First, finish the first reading of the draft decision. There were 8 members of the Commission in favour of this proposal, 3 against and no abstentions. Secondly, the Commission decided to propose to set the deadline for submitting amendments 1 hour after the end of the first additional sitting of the Riigikogu. There were 7 members of the Commission in favour of this decision, 4 against and no abstentions. The Commission also proposed to appoint a rapporteur for the Commission who was currently in the chair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U281	Thank you. You've also been asked some questions. Ladies and gentlemen, a little attention. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U282	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only ask the Commission's rapporteur about what happened in the Commission, and that is what I will do. In fact, the Minister of Finance in the Commission made such a statement that, until the end of the century, Estonia will still be able to earn so much that it will be able to pay off its debts until the end of the century. Why don't you remind me what kind of debt we were talking about at the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U283	Thank you. This issue certainly needs clarification and repeated clarification. If we are dealing with this matter in this Chamber, we need to understand that the Estonian state guarantees the Stability Fund, the EFSF, and the volume of our guarantee and our obligations depend on how much EFSF needs to borrow money from the financial markets. The point of the Minister's story was that in good times and rational decisions, the Estonian state has been able to collect reserves. And even if the most negative scenario of the failure of EFSF to meet its obligations were to take place, these joint and several guarantees will apply, which the Member States have given or are about to grant to EFSF. But once again, all lending to Greece is very conditional. The control of this program is quite different from what has been so far. If you read the text in addition to the draft, it is incredibly harsh, incredibly concrete and incredibly detailed, and this whole program is accompanied by very strict control. So in this sense, the situation is still different from before.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U284	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U285	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The Minister made it very clear in his answers that if we give up money, we'll make a percentage of it. Good Minister Ligi said that this percentage is so low that he doesn't remember that percentage. You always seem to be such a punctual person and an economic expert, can you tell me what that percentage is? I'm sure you wouldn't say yes to that loan without knowing that percentage.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U286	Thank you. However, the general principle is that the EFSF must first raise its own resources. I recommend that you read the EFSF website, which contains details of the missions that EFSF has carried out so far in connection with the Irish and Portuguese programmes. The EFSF has a very high rating, the investors are factually aware of it and the fund has obtained funds quite cheaply. If the fund now continues to lend, as the conditions require, it will add a margin that will certainly be feasible. I would not treat it in such a way that the goal is to make a profit. The aim is to achieve stability, to give countries participating in the programme an opportunity. It's worth looking at the practice we've had. Ireland has received real aid, has had a real opportunity to stabilise its situation and, by doing so, to achieve greater stability for the entire euro area, the whole of the European Union, if you want to, also in the world financial system. Portugal, too, although I admit that there are still major problems with Portugal. The goal is certainly not to make a profit. But once again, it still depends on the conditions under which the fund itself receives money from the financial markets. So far, I believe that the fund has been quite successful in obtaining financial resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U287	Thank you. Please, George Ratas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll come back a little bit to the last question. A good co-worker Rainer Vakra asked for that percentage, you didn't tell me if it was a plus sign or a minus sign. Could you elaborate on that? My question is to you as a representative of the Commission. You said that there would be an hour after the end of the sitting to make amendments. In what area could these amendments theoretically be present in the Riigikogu Finance Committee and in the Riigikogu plenary? Is there any competence to change the title or content, or is there any competence here at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U289	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U290	Thank you for that question. As far as this percentage is concerned, in the case of Portugal and Ireland, the order of magnitude has been 5%, if I am not mistaken. I'm not really going out of my mind right now, they're available in the public information room, and they can be over-checked. As far as the proposed amendments are concerned, this is the result of our own Rules of Procedure. If there are few paragraphs in the bill, then there are fewer works.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U291	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Looking at how passionately you're defending this bill, I had an idea. I'm sorry, this question is a little personal, but I'd still like to ask. You have put your feet on the Estonian tax administration in your time. Would you agree if there was a need to leave the Riigikogu and go to help rebuild the Greek tax administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U292	Thank you. In fact, this work, which we are doing here, will certainly help to improve the situation in Greece, giving the opportunity. This is a joint contribution from the euro area. But I read with interest the program and the part concerning, for example, tax administration. The programme does not intervene very extensively in tax policy. It obliges the tax system to simplify, broaden the tax base and abolish exemptions. The role of tax administration, however, is very interesting and even for me, there was completely new information. Greece must implement a common information system and establish a taxpayer register. The Estonian state introduced a single information system for tax management in 1999 and, at the same time, the taxpayers' register was created; Greece has only yet to deal with it. From what we've seen, it's pretty incredible. As far as the specific question is concerned, within the competence of a member of the Riigikogu, there is certainly a desire to help Greece with its advice if our assistance is to be and is to be received. We have experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U293	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U294	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, For obvious reasons, you did not want to answer my question when I asked what was the comment of the Minister of Finance when he announced that, until the end of the century, Estonia would still be able to pay off its debts. So we were discussing what happens when there's a black scenario and we're gonna have to put that money out. Circa 100 years in debt! That is why my second question is very simple. I take it there's such a thing as a man's word. Was it the case in the Commission that the Minister personally promised my colleague Nestor to behave politely, at least in relation to the social democrats, at today's session?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U295	Thank you. In answering this question, I would really like to congratulate the Minister for Finance for how patiently and thoroughly he explained this complex issue. Surely his performance was much better than the assumption. The Minister must indeed be commended for his thoroughness and patience. I believe that this became much clearer for all of us than it was at the beginning of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U296	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U297	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! When discussing this document, everyone is thinking about the great money that must be contributed jointly to help Greece. Let's say if in the future such a black scenario comes against our country, how do you think, who should be responsible, the Riigikogu, the government or the people of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U298	Thank you. I myself believe that some sort of breakpoint has come to resolve the debt crisis in the euro area as a whole. I have watched quite closely how, at the end of last year, interest rates in several euro area countries crossed a dangerous line, but at the beginning of this year these interest rates have come down quite significantly. If you look at the latest bond issues in Italy or Spain, you can sense a break. I myself would conclude that, although the decisions that have been taken so far, it can indeed be said that they are not timely, they are not sufficient, they are not operational enough, there is still confidence in the markets that the situation is starting to stabilise. But, of course, as far as the Greek programme is concerned, it is largely up to the country under the programme. This performance, which must be done in part already in the coming days and in much of the course of 2012, is certainly not easy, but it is strictly conditional, which gives the hope that the euro area debt crisis will change towards stabilisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U299	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U300	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Many of the questions were also linked to the so-called black scenarios and it is understandable that, in some respects, speculation is involved. But less than an hour ago, information came up where the scenario was quite specific. This shows that, after the debt has been written off, after all the bonds have been exchanged in banks, Fitch intends to declare default to Greece on 12 March. What do you think it is and how do you appreciate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U301	Fitch actually already downgraded Greece's rating to the penultimate, which is one level before default. It is still agreed that an agreement with the private sector will come and the bond exchange will take place, and the success of the bond exchange will also depend on how we decide in this Chamber. This is a first step towards greater stability and then the implementation of the following loan decisions, the recapitalisation of banks and the ongoing servicing of debts will follow. This will take place in several stages and, of course, the decision on the next stage will depend on whether or not the previous phase has been completed. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U302	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U303	Thanks for the word! Dear waitress, The Minister of Finance really spoke nicely here today. He spoke especially nicely about solidarity, so start crying or something. Looking at how the Reform Party has generally dealt with those who have been in the situation of a rural house in Estonia at a difficult time, it must be said that in your country, however, you have not shown this solidarity very much. Perhaps those who have had a difficult time have always been taken a little more. But if we come to the issue of Greece, my question is whether we are really doing all of this, above all, out of solidarity, not because our market is so open that as soon as there is some volatility in our export markets, we are ourselves. Wouldn't it be more honest to say that we're actually saving our own asses?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U304	Thank you for that question. Here was the first assessment and then the question was itself. I certainly do not agree with the assessment. But if you answer the question, of course, we are so closely connected, globally to the financial system. The euro area is our biggest partners and, of course, our success depends on how the euro area is doing. It is even possible to calculate how much one or the other scenario could have an impact on our growth indicators. Or at least speculate on how, for example, the failure of one Member State could have an impact on our economic growth and, therefore, on the well-being of all of us in real money numbers. But is it not that, even if we assume or imagine that the worst-case scenario will be implemented, we have, after all, been able to get more out of the European Union budget than we could have done in the worst-case scenario? This solidarity still has quite a large and broad content and the whole context must be taken into account when we discuss and decide this matter here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U305	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U306	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good co-rapporteur! I also thank you for your very calm and very thorough answers. It's a shame that in the temporal dimension, your co-report and your answer to questions were shorter than the main rapporteur. But to give you an equal chance, I ask you, would you like to add anything else?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U307	Good waitress, no more questions for you. Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! And now I'm opening negotiations. Just in case, I would also like to remind you that only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Please, Rainer Vakra, as a representative of the Central Party Group, to the speaker's seat.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U308	Thank you. I would like to thank here once again those political parties and political groups represented in the Riigikogu who have contributed to the stability of the euro area. Indeed, we do not have good choices, we have poor choices, but the best of these choices must be chosen!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U309	I'm sorry for a second. Priit Toobal has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U310	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U311	Thank you, Mr President. How does the President check whether the speaker is a representative of a political group or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U312	Since no one else on the Central Party list has registered at the moment, I assume Rainer Vakra is a representative of the Central Party Group. I hope I'm not wrong? Please, Priit Tobal, the second procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U313	Thank you. I wanted to say this as a comment, I was not worried about the representative of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U314	Let's leave the comments out of the room. There's only procedural questions here. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U315	Good manager! Honourable guests! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I recall that on 29 September last year, when Estonia rushed to join the European Financial Stability Fund, the coalition stressed that we were talking not about Greece, but only about Portugal and Ireland. Today's rhetoric of those in power is again ignoring a clear discussion, and this time the reason is that the Riigikogu has already approved the EFSF and the new Greek aid package is just a question of formalisation. It should be noted here that the Greeks discussed and debated the 130-billion euro aid package among themselves for three months, the Estonian Government gave its consent in three days, and Parliament must do so in one day. I stress it's done in one day! Greece's progress has been minimal in the last almost two years and we consider it unfair that Estonian taxpayers suffer from other omissions. We do not support Estonia's bailing out its wealthier problem countries, especially considering that we contribute more than other countries to the EFSF's gross domestic product. Estonia's EUR 1.995 billion guarantee commitment amounts to 13.8% of the country's GDP. At this point, it would be appropriate to ask the Minister for Finance why we are in a situation where Estonia, whose headless sovereign debt and budget deficit have already become essentially a matter of national pride and whose probability of insolvency is therefore low, must contribute relatively more to the common'rescue fund' than the riskier countries. Where does that make sense? At the same time, we cannot fail to mention the perverse fact that the minimum wage in Greece is essentially equal to the average wage in Estonia. It seems very unfair to me how we have asked people over the last few years to endure cuts in expenditure, unemployment and wage cuts, but now we are forced to pay for the well-being of others, in addition to everything else. I am proud of the Estonian people, who have walked in one foot in difficult times and have understood the need for sacrifice and have not rushed the streets into unrest, which is, unfortunately, a daily phenomenon in Greece recently. If we approve of this Greek rescue operation here in the Riigikogu today, I am ashamed to face people on the street. Unfortunately, the new injection will not solve the problems, and it is only about calming the temporary markets. The problem of shoveling money into Greece does not disappear, concerns are only suppressed for a moment, but even the memo leaked by the Troika itself can be read that the need for the next aid package is already obvious and that Greece's ability to deal with its own finances will not recover in the coming years. Yeah, we can play this game right now because we can't see the crash ahead because it's buried under the Euro Coupons. I would compare this situation to human health. With today's medical options, it is perfectly possible to hide the symptoms of pneumonia; fever can be suppressed by force; cough can be lost; stimuli can artificially increase energy levels. The earlier the fact that time must be taken down and thrown down to the hospital, the easier the disease will be overcome. But the longer you wait and tell everyone that because there aren't many symptoms, because chemistry is raging in the blood, there's no problem, the worse it's gonna be. Unless the patient actually does school, in addition to treating the lungs, it is possible to look for other organs to patch up or replace them. And that is why I always suggest that we intervene sooner rather than later and less believe that everything will pass by itself. Of course, those in favour of the Greek aid package say that the most important thing now is to win the time so that the fall of one country does not produce a domino effect, where the next falling stones are Portugal, Spain, Italy and other countries. Countries whose decline is also very difficult to pay simply like Greece because of their size. Such arguments could, however, only be accepted if there were clear measures to be taken to resolve the problems in substance within the time that has been won.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U316	It has to be taken into account that in April there will be parliamentary elections in Greece, which is why it is not certain that the cut-off plan will actually be implemented. Given the spirit of the people on the streets of Athens, it is quite likely that there will be no shortage of power. What's the solution? However, leaving the euro area would probably help Greece to recover. Only this will give them the opportunity to devalue their currency in order to make Greek tourists more affordable and local products cheaper. Greece's competitiveness must increase. One way is by saving, reducing wages and tightening social security. However, this is a very long and arduous path, the effectiveness of which depends largely on the will of local politicians and the people. Think of me as a cynic, but that's not the will I see in Greece. On the other hand, devaluation is a quick and quite clear way to restore external economic balance. Surely this is not a pleasant solution, absolutely not. But that is what needs to be clearly understood today: there are no good solutions, only bad ones and worse ones. However, devaluation would be an opportunity for the Greek economy to rise from the ashes as a phoenix, apologize for the cliché. There are also successful examples from the recent past. In Argentina, it has already been ten years since the fall of 11% of gross domestic product in 2002 as early as 2003 in economic growth and in two years it reached its pre-crisis level. Even the recent Icelandic banking collapse speaks of the benefits of devaluation. We want it or not, but the current patchwork of problems does not have a coherent, economically correct solution. Today, a path has been chosen which protects creditors as well as possible, but makes the economic development of Greece almost impossible over the next five years. Assuming that, in addition to austerity, it is also decided to bail itself out of debt in Europe through inflation, it will still have a devastating effect on all European depositors, including, for example, conservative pension funds, which rightly hold a significant proportion of their assets in money market funds or deposits. I am sure you will understand: this is a very large amount, 357 million euros is more than 5% of Estonia's state budget this year. This is, for example, as high as the total budgeted expenditure of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Defence in 2012. This represents almost half of the cost of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund's national health insurance this year. This is an amount that the Riigikogu should not be forced to make a decision in just one day. Overall, this is why the Central Party Group does not support the approval of the Greek aid package in the Riigikogu. At this point, I have a request to reject the first reading by us to the Riigikogu Board, which I also asked to support personally by Juku-Kalle Raid! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U317	Please, let's add three more minutes, we had some procedural questions here!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U318	Thank you. I'm going to ask for the next chair as a representative of the Taavi Clothing Reform Party! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U319	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable fellows! The previous speaker spoke for a very long time about the possibility of devaluation of the Greek currency, but forgot that the Greek currency is the euro and Greece's obligations are in the euro. So the possible economic policy measures that we can read in the economic textbook or the history book about another country may not be the case in the European Union and in the euro zone. But to the point. The decision before us today is certainly not an easy one. Firstly, because by supporting the programme, we support those who have acted contrary to our own financial beliefs. For those whose economy per capita is about a third of us, but the wages are many times higher. We had to live beyond our means, so we could exclaim. And what's to deny, it's hard to argue. Would it be impossible to live beyond power in Estonia? I don't think so. After all, the party that criticised the most evil Greeks in this Chamber today, a few years ago, seriously wanted to double the salaries of civil servants with one crap to 25,000 kroons, i.e. a double one, and it was said with an equally serious face that this would boost the economy. In fact, as we can see in the case of Greece, it would instead increase the burden of debt. If only 1.7% had voted differently, we would have had the reed of living beyond our means of life on our full tours. And there have been others out there who wanted to take a debt. The decision is also difficult because no one gives us 100% guarantees that this programme will save Greece from everything that has been done wrong there over decades. True, we have peer reviews, we have analyses, we have written promises from Greek politicians, we have Parliament's decisions there, but we do not have 100% guarantees. Will they be able to implement reforms that would normally take decades? Is an unreasonablely costly social system even possible to be eroded, or do trade unions continue to demand that they continue to strike and continue with the abyssed finances? A hundred percent guarantee is almost never available when we make decisions, and in such a situation a decision must be made on the basis of the best knowledge and analysis. On the other hand, we have an almost 100% guarantee that if we abandon the aid package and let one European Union and eurozone country fail, our lives will also be negatively affected by thousands of kilometres north of the epicenter of events. There are probably many of us, like our constituents, whether they have experienced or heard stories about what is really happening in Greece. No one could pay with a card in the tavern and concluded that the innkeeper would not pay his taxes. Someone heard from the cab driver that they would actually avoid paying taxes in the future, and the program wouldn't change anything. Someone saw men playing checkers on the street at noon Wednesday and concluded that no one is working in that country. I'm sure there's a grain of truth in such rumours, but is there enough to make prejudice on its surface? Let us ask ourselves whether Parliament should base today's decision on these rumours or on the months-long work of the IMF, the European Central Bank and the European Commission, which is a peer review and a 60-page memorandum of understanding, in other words a loan aid programme. I hope that, for those who read this comprehensive document in a series of rows, it will be cool to consider themselves the greatest Greek expert, because the detail of this document and the thoroughness of the conditions for Greece are certainly startling for the first time to come into contact with the subject. A large part of the Estonian Parliament has been working on the details of the Greek programme for several months. Since autumn, this has been discussed by the Committee on European Union Affairs, and several times in recent weeks by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Both ordinary and public sessions have been held, and in addition to the representatives of the government, we have discussed the subject with the managers and independent thinkers of Eesti Pank. Among other things, we have encouraged ministers to be demanding of Greece's compliance with the conditions. And I can assure you, I know they've been there. The Reform Party Group has consulted on these issues on a number of occasions and has quite passionately debated what to deny there. We are not thrilled at the possibility of guaranteeing loans from other countries. But we can see that the alternative is even more expensive for both Estonia and Europe. Much has been said about the amount of guarantee we have provided, the amount of these sums, but it has not been mentioned that if Greece's insolvency brings Europe and Estonia even one percentage point less economic growth in the coming years, this alone will have an even greater impact. In addition, indirect effects due to the possible paralysis of the financial sector, whether they are more difficult to obtain if loans or higher interest are received at all. Everything but that. If we compare the impact of different scenarios on ordinary Estonian people, we will inevitably come to the conclusion that Greece's uncontrolled insolvency would also hurt our people's well-being. In summary, then: Europe's stability, the functioning of the financial system and the knowledge that if necessary we too would be helped are three reasons why this decision needs to be supported from an Estonian perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, this is a difficult decision. In addition to the above, each of us must think about whether he will make a decision on tomorrow's news or whether he will make a decision on Europe's future, and thus on Estonia's future. I wish you all a sober mind and a statesmanly attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U320	Thank you very much. According to § 98 of the Home and Working Procedures Act, only the representatives of the political groups can speak in the first reading negotiations today. Since two requests to speak have been registered by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, my question is to the representative of the Group, the deputy chairman of the Group, to Toomas Tõniste: who is the authorised representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U321	Thank you. It is such a popular topic that we have two requests, but our representative, Sven Sester, is the decision of the Bureau of the IRL Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U322	Thank you very much. Is it a procedural question? [[The question of the floor is not heard.]] No, there's no way. Sven Sester, as representative of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please speak on the stand!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U323	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We're not here today for simple decisions. This is also demonstrated by the discussion, which has been going on in this Chamber for several hours today, and by the number of questions that have hit the Chief Rapporteur, the Minister for Finance and the Commission's co-rapporteur, Mr Aivar Sõerdi. There are many questions that are still not clear to the people. I don't think there's a lot of people out here who don't know exactly what kind of historic decision we're at right now, let alone people outside this hall. A few days ago, I put a question on social media and asked my friends for comments on what they would recommend to do with the European aid package. And what to deny was that, in percentage terms, nine out of ten thought that aid should not be granted to Greece, and one thought that aid could be granted at 90% and 10%. From this perspective, one might ask: Where are your eyes and where are your ears? Why do the MPs who are in this Chamber today vote in one way or another? Is there a little bit of an explanation? Maybe we've had a little talk. I would like to say once again here as a representative of the IRL Group: ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and those outside this Chamber, we have assumed our responsibilities and our rights when we enter the European Union. We should be in this European family for good and for bad. Yeah, we've had some pretty good times. Over the years, we have recovered many more from every euro that we have invested in it through membership taxes. Now is the worst time for us to start supporting someone, and it is as if there is no direct sense that we can get something back. I'm telling you, you can't feel directly. Actually, we can. What do we get? We will have confidence in the event that Greece fulfils the promises it has made today. Read this memorandum! I don't know how many of you have read it, but I would say that if you read it and made it clear to yourself, Greece doesn't really need a government anymore. Why? Everything has been announced in advance, starting from the fact that there must be an additional fee of up to 5% in medicine, there must not be any more, up to which cuts, during the period in question, what kind of monitoring, what kind of auditing, how to report, how often everything is practically regulated. To be honest, it is not easy for decision-makers in Greece who are going to have to do all of this. Yes, their position is in a different place than in Estonia today. Yeah, these people's positions are much better in financial terms than we are. But think about the domino effect that could happen if Greece were to go bankrupt. Are we really ready for this? If you look at those close neighbours who have a trade with Greece, then you will be able to reach Estonia at some point. If you now look at the speed of the procedure, there has also been a matter of why so quickly, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that when we dealt with the EFSF Framework Agreement last year, we ourselves said that we want to deal with it and we are ready to deal with it quickly, operationally. And if I look at how the procedure has been, I would say that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has dealt with it quite a number of times over the last month. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U324	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U325	The Committee on Finance has received an overview every Monday of the state of play of the negotiations in the last month. The Committee on European Union Affairs, as the previous speaker said, has taken up positions and agreed to Estonia's positions in negotiations with Greece over several months. The Estonian translation of the contract accompanying the decision on our table today has been available to members of the Monetary Commission for several days with access restrictions to make it clear to themselves what the situation is. I would even say that a member of the opposition ambassador of the Committee on Monetary Affairs has specifically told me that, if you look at the draft decision and look at this agreement separately, the truth is that the Treaty is not easy for Greece. Indeed, it is not easy for Greece. I don't want to be like them. I will tell you once again: the decisions that we have to make today are not easy, but, looking at the whole picture, I would say that it is now necessary to make a choice between bad and worse decisions. I am counting on your determination, and I believe that the decision will come today, which will give us the opportunity to move forward in a united European family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U326	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Vassilyev, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U327	Ladies and gentlemen, The Greek aid package before us today has created a great deal of emotions; these emotions have been outside the Chamber, have been in this Chamber, have been in favour of the opposition and, as we have just seen, also in favour of the Coalition. So emotional. In fact, the Social Democrats understand very well why it creates emotions in the public. We believe that this is understandable and justified, because we also have reason to say that there are a lot of things in Estonia that we are not satisfied with. Whether this is an unfair tax burden, no child benefits, no consideration of the interests of workers-employers, or, more generally, a government holding a mirror dialogue. But in this case, it is certainly important to put emotions aside as far as possible and to approach the question pragmatically and with reason. European solidarity is certainly important here, which has been spoken about quite a lot, and which Estonia has actually received a great deal of income from, above all, through the euro grants, which have both a direct and an indirect impact on our economy. At the same time, it must be quite frankly said that it is probably not what solidarity is to focus on in making this decision. We have bad choices before us, as has been said in this speech chair. That is indeed the case, and between these bad choices we have to decide today. But above all, the standard by which decisions should be decided should have an impact on Estonia. The first option is to participate in the aid package, which means we give guarantees to EFSF, EFSF lends money on the market and then lends it to Greece. The positive scenario is that Greece will pay this money back nicely and nothing will happen. There is no point in saying today that this is the only possible scenario. No, it's not. There is a very serious risk that Greece will not be able to cope with its obligations to the EFSF and the guarantors will actually have to ease the purse. The aid package stands broadly on three legs. The first is the write-off of creditors' debts, which are 53.5% in nominal terms and up to 70% in interest. This will give about the same result as the national guarantee granted through the EFSF. The first is more than EUR 100 billion, the second is EUR 130 billion. The third leg on which this package stands is Greece's own commitment, which the country takes to get this money. They consist of both how to cut costs and how to increase their comparatively non-existent competitiveness. The main risk for the aid package is whether Greece will be able to meet its commitments. Those who have read this memorandum realise that these commitments are very ambitious, very serious, and, figuratively speaking, the Greek Government will then have to decide which company to sell in order. The rest is pretty much in the memorandum. The second risk is that although the commitments include measures that increase competitiveness, there are very many cuts that do not actually benefit Greece's economic growth, even though they are inevitable in the current situation. That is why the problem is what Greece's GDP will be like during the period we are dealing with today. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U328	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U329	In this light, it might be appropriate to ask that maybe it is really wise to let Greece go under water, empty with her. It is not that simple, because we have reached a situation where Greece's uncontrolled bankruptcy has reached a very close future. March may be the month in which what really happens is that one euro area country no longer has the liquidity to secure and pay its obligations. This means that it is very difficult to imagine those banks outside Greece that are willing to lend money to the Greek banks in such a situation, which in turn means that the circulation of money in Greece could be interrupted. This means that it is very difficult for people, if not impossible, to actually recover their deposits from Greek banks, to make transactions there. In the same way, the State is affected by this, because it is no longer possible for the State to carry out transfers in such a scenario, to pay the employees' wages, to provide the vital services necessary for the State. Given the emotional nature of the Greeks, it can be said that the demonstrations that are now taking place on the streets are relatively pleasant compared to what would happen in the future in this chaos in Greece. For us, the main concern is what can happen, above all, in other problematic countries, such as Italy and Spain, whose bond price will certainly rise. This may mean that these countries, too, will no longer be able to meet their real obligations. What is the impact on Estonia in this situation, when Europe is in an uncontrolled economic crisis, we have seen in the recent past. In addition, it can be said that payments of euro payments to Estonia in the next period are likely to decrease. So the picture's pretty sad for us. It would certainly be a good thing if the ancient Greek deus ex machina could now be used, where divine intervention solves the problem. Unfortunately, this is not possible in real life, and today we have to choose between two bad options, of which Greece's uncontrolled bankruptcy seems worse than accepting the aid package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U330	Thank you very much. I'm closing the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu! The Bureau of the Riigikogu has received the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the draft 185 at first reading. We have to vote through this. Let's get ready for the voting procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the draft resolution 'Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic' at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 28, 57 votes against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 185 amendments at 20.30 p.m. on 23 February. The second additional sitting of the Riigikogu starts at 21.30. The first additional sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 7:31 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U331	Good evening, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the second additional session of the sixth working week of the third session of the Riigikogu, which will last until the agenda is exhausted. Ladies and gentlemen, Now you have the opportunity to find drafts and enquiries in your drawers and to hand them over. Nobody wants to do that. There's a message. I have forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. Please, let's do the presence check! 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. That means we can start our work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U332	Let's start with the Government of the Republic. a Second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions." Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U333	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs prepared a second reading of the draft 185 at its meeting today. One amendment from the Central Party Group received by the deadline for tabling amendments. In the meantime, I will say what I forgot earlier: Mr Põder, representative of the initiator of the draft, also took part in the meeting of the Commission at the Ministry of Finance. Now to the suggestions for improvement. As I said, one amendment was received from the Central Party Group. Its content, in short, is that it is proposed to take the word 'design' after'memorandum' from the title and text of the decision. The Finance Committee itself proposed one improvement: insert in the preamble to the draft a reference to § 402 (32) of the State Budget Act. This is particularly because legislation must be legally issued and comply with the law and it is legally correct in the preamble to refer to the State Budget Act. The Commission discussed these improvements. The first proposal was explained by my colleague, Kalev Kallo. There was quite a debate in the Commission on whether or not the word 'design' should follow the'memorandum'. Almost all members of the Commission submitted their opinion and the initiator asked for this amendment to be voted on. The proposal was supported by 5 and against 6 members of the Commission. So this amendment was not supported by the Commission. As regards the second amendment tabled by the Commission, I have already clarified its content. There was also a vote on this. There were 8 Commission members in favour of the Commission's proposed amendment and 3 against it. The committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of the draft 185 be terminated and that the draft be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U334	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U335	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, The draft decision states that if a final vote is taken, the draft memorandum of understanding, rather than the memorandum of understanding itself, will be approved. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U336	Thank you. This was the Commission's deliberate decision, which was the result of the vote. I shall state the reasons for this as follows: First of all, if you look at the decision taken by the Riigikogu on 29 September to ensure compliance with the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement on the European Financial Stability Fund and its amendments, it is stated very clearly that the Riigikogu approves the draft Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter the Memorandum). I would also like to point out that the memorandum itself also needs the signatures of the parties, and these are the countries of the euro area, the European Central Bank, the IMF and, of course, Greece itself. There are no signatures yet. The governments of the euro area Member States or the European Union Affairs Committees or parliaments still need to approve this memorandum in their decision-making process. The final, signed document will be completed after these stages have been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U337	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U338	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite all due respect, however, I must say that you are currently misleading the Chamber of the Riigikogu. One mistake is purely technical. There was no vote on the second amendment, the decision was consensual, 11 for and 0 against, but in any case we did not vote and the result was not 8: 3 for the second amendment. Secondly, as a Commission waitress, why do you not tell us, in substance, what was said during the debate on the first amendment? In essence, we are offered to approve a draft which may ultimately differ from the memorandum that will be adopted. We've been talking about this for quite a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U339	Thank you. I can talk more about this debate, although you yourself were present and you are very well aware of the content of this debate. In accordance with the decision adopted in the autumn, the amendments, if any, shall be subject to a separate procedure. But if you claim that this document, which is on our tables today, is not the same document that the parties will sign in the future, then it must be said that, in this case, it is a completely new document and this is how it must be handled. This does not mean that I would expect the Member States of the euro area, the central bank, the IMF and Greece to sign a completely different document, not what we are debating today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U340	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U341	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Ministers of the euro area have repeatedly emphasised, and you have also said, that the rescue of Greece will ensure the financial stability and credibility of the euro area as a whole. However, in order for the programme to be successful, Greece has a very important role to play, for example, in bringing Greece to a budgetary balance, i.e. making cuts, economic reforms, etc. Strong supervision should be the guarantee of this: if the requirements are not met, the money will not be paid. However, we all know that without the money, Greece will go bankrupt and suffer from the stability of the euro area as a whole. My question: how far are the countries of the euro area willing to go, or what is Plan B? In any case, will the money continue to be pumped into Greece because the fear of infection is too great, perhaps economic programmes 3 and 4, or is there some kind of agreement that if Greece does not comply with the programme, Greece will be invited to withdraw from the euro area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U342	Thank you. Now, my good colleague, we did not discuss the draft in preparation for the second reading in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U343	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U344	Thank you. I will also specify the subject of the memorandum and the plan of the memorandum. Today we are confirming the plan here. It is possible purely theoretically that, at a time when this scheme becomes a definitive memorandum, some changes will take place. Who will assess whether these changes have been large enough to allow the final memorandum to require once again the mandate of the EFSF Member States, the decision of a large hall in our case?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U345	Thank you. The first filter is definitely the Eurogroup and its finance ministers. Our Minister of Finance will also take part in the meetings of the eurogroup finance ministers as a member with the right to vote. That's the filter. If there is any other document or document on the ministerial table that has changed significantly compared to the document that has now been submitted to the Member States for processing, the ministers will say: 'But this is no longer what we have discussed and decided. 'It's the filter. I think that the Commission or the Council of Ministers of the Eurogroup will not let such a thing pass.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U346	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U347	Thank you. Aivar! I am pleased that the Minister of Finance confessed that this is a crisis of socialism, not capitalism, but he did not answer the other side of my question. As a potential voter, I ask you as a human being: do you think it is ethical that our citizens pay for this failed socialist sovch?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U348	Good colleague Juku-Kalle! I would like to discuss this matter up to detail, but unfortunately I am here as a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I will present to you the Commission's debate, which prepared the draft for a second reading. Unfortunately, I must remain within the framework of my mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U349	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U350	Thank you, Madam President. I actually have two questions, one of them maybe about the procedure. I am not as experienced a member of the Riigikogu as some others in this Chamber. I might even approve of the draft memorandum, but I don't have it on the table, I have a memorandum on the table. What are we gonna do? This is the first part of the question. The second part is this: what is the percentage of possible changes by which the draft memorandum might differ from the memorandum itself? Is it just the state and the sum or something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U351	Thank you. I welcome, of course, your contribution to the stability of the euro area. You have, I understand, two proposals. One proposal is to remove the word 'design' from the draft text and the other is that Greece should adopt the drachma. This is, of course, a strong contribution to the stability of the euro area. But I have to tell you that the question you asked was, unfortunately, not discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U352	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U353	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, As former Minister of Finance, you should be able to imagine this situation well for yourself. Suppose, in the autumn, we are being proposed to adopt the law 'Programme of the state budget 2013'. That would be absurd. It is clear that no one is going to accept something that can be changed afterwards without our involvement. Why do we now agree to approve the draft, knowing that it is very possible that it will be amended?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U354	Thank you. Of course, I do not know which sources your information comes from, that it will be changed. As far as I know, this text, which we have here in the Estonian translation, is also based on all the other Member States of the euro area when they are dealing with this issue. I do not have the information that this memorandum, which we are deciding on today, will be revised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U355	Kadri Simson, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U356	Indeed, I have a procedural question for the Commission rapporteur. I understand that Aivar Sõerd sometimes represents the Reform Party and forgets that most of his colleagues have recently passed initial courses of empathy. But he was talking here about amendments. The proposal to remove the word 'design' from the draft decision is not an empty proposal. If you look at the meaning of the 'design' using the wordbook of the correct language, it turns out that a comprehensive project is being adopted now. The questions about what is actually being put to the final vote here are very appropriate, and the Commission rapporteur should be able to answer them without waving his hands and speaking about the Greek drachma.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U357	Thank you very much. Next question, please! Colleagues Juku-Kalle Raid, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U358	Aivar! I'm glad that just like you didn't answer my question. I asked you what you thought this project was ethical. If you say that you can only answer me as a Member of the Commission, confess that it is a jacket that speaks, not a person. I demand an answer to the question whether you think it is ethical what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U359	Ladies and gentlemen, We have a representative from the Committee on Monetary Affairs now, and he is talking about what happened in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. With regard to ethical problems, good colleague Juku-Kalle, you can discuss outside this hall, although this topic is certainly very interesting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U360	For my part, I am willing to discuss this after the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U361	So Aivar is willing to discuss it. The next question, Mr Eldar Efendiev, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U362	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! However, I would like to clarify once again the question put to you by my colleague. When we look at the bill, we see that it says 'design', but when we look at the attached documents, they are all memoranda. That is why I have the question that we are now taking, whether the memorandums that have been submitted to us as annexes or the draft that have not been submitted to us. That was my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U363	Thank you, my good colleague. The design will become a document after it is signed. The parties to be signed. The counterparties are the euro area Member States, the IMF, the central bank and Greece. When these signatures are down and the decision-making processes in other national parliaments are over, we are talking about the final document.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U364	Please, Mr Borodich, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U365	Thank you. Good waitress! In my opinion, the Estonian people expect a balanced and sensible decision to participate in the Greek aid package. Do you think that a decision on Estonia's participation at EUR 357 million would make sense if you had not discussed in the Commission the situation that happens if this aid package does not prove successful, that is, you have not discussed the consequences and plan B?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U366	Good colleague! In preparing for the second reading, we did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U367	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U368	Thank you. Good waitress! Do you agree with me that if a change is made in this document that we are adopting today, it should come back to the Riigikogu for discussion, because this evening's debate has become meaningless, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U369	In this case, it is a new situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U370	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Commission waitress, You said that you have the assurance that the text of this memorandum will no longer be amended. Please answer, what is the real reason why you can't take away the word 'design'? Do not answer that you did not discuss this in committee, because I know you discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U372	Thank you, my good colleague. We discussed this very thoroughly in the Commission. I will explain this once again by saying that, as long as there are no parties' signatures, it is a draft, even if no changes are made. If this document changes, this is a new situation, then our Minister for Finance can say that an apology, this is not the document that we have decided on in both the Eurogroup and national procedures in national parliaments. It would be a very different situation. However, I do not have any information today that some parties who have been in the negotiations on this document would urgently need to start redeploying this document. But when it is changed, it must be discussed again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U373	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U374	Thank you, Madam President. I am pleased that you acknowledge our personal contribution, or my personal contribution, to the Greek economy, and I did not understand which one you had in mind. I'm sorry you're so upset when I ask you a question. But I'm still gathering courage and asking again because I didn't get an answer. How big do you think the changes to the draft need to be so that this matter should be discussed again in Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U375	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U376	Thank you. I think that the first signal that we can talk about a new document, or the amendments are so big, that we can talk about a new memorandum or a revised memorandum, comes to us from the finance ministers of the euro area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U377	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Can you assure us members of the Riigikogu that all the countries participating in the EFSF approve the draft memorandum, namely the draft memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U378	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U379	Thank you. My colleague, Inara Luigas, did indeed ask what is the practice of other countries, how this document will be formalised, for example, in the debate of some national governments, in the Finnish ELEAK or in the German Parliament. Unfortunately, we did not get a precise and exhaustive answer to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U380	Thank you. We've had quite a few debates about the possible modification of the design when it's finally become a memorandum. Could any committee, such as the Committee on Monetary Affairs, take a matter of heart to actively monitor this process, whether and how this draft will turn into a memorandum, and to provide information on it to the large Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U381	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U382	Thank you, my good colleague. The proposer may ask to vote on this proposal in this large Chamber. I don't know what the decision is. I am talking about what the Committee on Monetary Affairs has decided. That's how the voices split up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U383	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Can you tell who will appreciate it and then decide whether, because of the changes that may be related to this document in the future, this document will come to our hall again? Who's the one who appreciates it and decides to bring it to this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U384	Thank you. I am quite sure that, if this memorandum is on the table of the finance ministers of the Eurogroup, the finance ministers will deal with this text very thoroughly. I am also absolutely certain that the minister representing the Estonian state is the first to say whether or not there are problems. However, the decision of the Framework Agreement adopted on 29 September states: '... a draft memorandum of amendments and a draft memorandum of amendments aimed at providing preventative tools (credit limit), buying bonds or recapitalisation of credit institutions and other financial institutions. 'In this case, the point under which the document must be submitted to the Riigikogu for approval does not apply, but is decided by the Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U385	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U386	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I have a brief question: will you confirm that a draft memorandum of understanding on specific economic policy conditions between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic, which will be adopted by the Riigikogu decision in this Chamber today, can and can anyone make changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U387	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U388	Thank you. Good colleague! You were in the Committee on Monetary Affairs as the initiator's representative or as a representative of the government, as you wish, explained that the draft memorandum was as final as it could be. But you can talk about the final document in legal terms after it has the signatures of all parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U389	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As representative of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, do you have information on this and can you explain whether a country, if it so decides in the debate, can be included in this memorandum, for example, in the preamble to terms, and what would that contractually mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U390	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U391	Thank you. That's a good question. I thought that was the question. Unfortunately, we did not discuss this in the Commission. I don't think that's gonna change the substance of this thing. But, of course, it must also be taken into account that, if we have a thorough debate on the memorandum here, governments in other euro area Member States will give their confirmation, who have actually held their debates in the Eurogroup. It would be hilarious if a Member State were to start, when, let's say, a fight has been fought, with fists. It is quite unlikely that some Member States would arbitrarily add something to the preamble. These disputes have already been settled.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U392	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that you did not know and did not know in the Commission what other countries would call this document, either a memorandum or a draft, but you should know how Estonia has acted in the past by ratifying international agreements or agreements in this Chamber. International agreements sometimes enter into force once they have been ratified by all the parties, and there are agreements that enter into force once they have been ratified by some of the Contracting Parties. But whenever such draft laws have come before us here, they are still draft laws on the ratification of the Treaty, not draft laws on the ratification of the draft treaty. This is despite the fact that by the time we vote on them here, they have not yet become an agreement. Did you look at this earlier practice and analyze it? Don't you think it seems to me that maybe it was just that the minister wasn't there on the Commission and the official didn't dare decide if the word 'design' could be taken out or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U393	Thank you, my good colleague, for this question. I do not have a very long experience of being a member of the Riigikogu, but I think today's decision is a precedent. A decision with such content and form has not been taken before. Of course, you quite rightly pointed it out. In the Commission, too, my colleague, Eiki Nestor, brought such an parallel that when we are discussing the amendment of a law, it is a draft, but the title is still written that it is one law or another. Once again, the proposer of the amendment may ask for this proposal to be voted on, and we can decide on this amendment by voting in this large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U394	Please, Mr Mailis Reps, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U395	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! May I have some clarification? I understand from your previous reply that, for example, there are probably no additional conditions or preambles coming from national parliaments or governments, because, as far as you know, apart from Estonia and Germany, this decision will not be put to the vote elsewhere at parliamentary level. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U396	Thank you. You're giving me my words, maybe a little arbitrary. The real situation is that for this particular memorandum, the procedures of the other Member States are slightly different from our procedure. I think that also in Germany, where Parliament is discussing this, the procedure is certainly not exactly similar to ours. In most countries a decision is taken at government level. The Minister representing the government, I think that all the countries have sent the Minister of Finance to discuss this issue after all, has already had their disputes. The Eurogroup decided this thing on Sunday night against Monday.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U397	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U398	Dear Commission waitress, Can you confirm now that if there is one additional word to this memorandum that has been distributed to us as an addition, then this memorandum will come back for approval before the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U399	Thank you. Good colleague! I don't think I need to confirm one or the other of your claims, assumptions, speculation or theoretical perceptions. Once again, you can ask to put your amendment to the vote. Be my guest and do it. The plenary of the Riigikogu can then decide what is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U400	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U401	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! What is your opinion as a representative of the Commission? As far as we know, there was no Minister of Finance in the Commission. I do believe that when such an important matter is being discussed, such commitments to the state, the Minister of Finance should be present. How do you comment on the fact that the Minister of Finance was not in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U402	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, speaker, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U403	Thank you, my good colleague. I would not underestimate the capacity of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Although the result of a close vote, we did do our job, despite the fact that the representative of the initiator of the draft was not really the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U404	I'll take eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U405	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U406	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a historic day when I need to speak not on behalf of the Central Party Group, but I can speak as a citizen and a human being. I've complained about this remote control many times that for five years I've had to take money here almost as a blank, and no one's ever heard or wanted to listen to my wise thoughts, they haven't been taken as a basis or recommended to deal with them in depth. For the first time today, I feel like I've received a reward for this five-year emptiness, because right now I wouldn't want to be in the flesh of a coalition. This decision, which must be made by the government coalition today, is actually the right decision, because solidarity is, as we know, a sacred thing that really must be followed and fulfilled. The coalition's mouth corners-down arguments that we've gotten a lot out of it, and now all we have to do is give up a little bit, is God's truth. Indeed, the guarantee amount is negligible compared to the money we have received from Europe over the years. Unfortunately, only timing has gone wrong, because the Estonian people, who have to tighten their belts more and more, have forgotten that we have gotten there, but they have clearly remembered today that you are pressing the green button in favour of giving away the money. I believe that if we give the bankrupt neighbour a guarantee of a slightly higher amount than the cost of our own house, everyone will understand that it is quite difficult to find this money in the cash flow when the guarantee is enforced. But I don't think the option of not having to find this money is likely to be an option. But that's not what matters to me today. For me today, the main thing is that I, as a fun person, have wondered why I have not been able to live like the Greeks, just as a joy without knowing what taxes are. The climate could be a little better, you'd be a full game. The government could just keep borrowing and borrowing, because all my fun has to be paid for. My pension could also be much higher than the current perspective. Let's just say that if I wasn't in the Riigikogu, I wouldn't have to do much, just for the simple reason that the state would support me relatively hard. It doesn't seem like it's gonna stop being fun for the Greeks. If it gets more serious, the biggest problem is whether we, who are hurting our hearts for Europe and for a little bit of ourselves, realize that there is no end to it. The Greeks aren't going to work. In Greece, there is a narrow area of sensible government and Members of Parliament who want to make a difference there. But imagine a black scenario, that the police will also change sides in Greece, perhaps it will happen that the police will no longer beat up the rioters on the street, but the police will beat up the lonely, sober-minded Greek leaders on the street, together with the rioters, who will have to leave the country. It is quite likely that in the spring elections those who do not currently have power will prevail. I think the situation is highly explosive. Greek history has shown that they have lived in such a way that from time to time the army must take power there. Does this mean for us this perspective that we will have another dictatorship in southern Europe, because there is no other way to put things right there? Could this mean for us that instead of Afghanistan, we have a military mission in Greece, because the southern Europeans have decided that they do not understand a normal life? That would be pretty creepy, I'll tell you straight and straight. There is one good solution in the world, by the way. The Estonians have had it all the time, but now our peasant wisdom is over and we have to start giving it up. An old-fashioned European Union that is unable to decide anything, who is always giving guarantees, who is always debating something, is not actually sustainable. I think that the European Union should live in such a way that Greece is an internal matter of the European Union, which is a problem for one county. Welcome to the United States of Europe, where there is central power, where decisions are made much faster and our finance minister does not have to go blindly to Brussels for two hours to get new advice, then back home again and then back to Brussels for two hours again. Let it go! We're used to having a big country. Let it go! Whether we are sending bread, bread, bullets, soldiers or peacekeepers to Greece from the capital of a large country will be decided. Understand that Europe is not sustainable in this way, for the simple reason that, as far as I am aware, the Germans have secretly sold them tanks, or a little raffle going on like this all the time. We don't know anything about that yet. It seems to us that we are so small that we should be a small part of a large country, that no one would require us to make independent decisions, because independent decisions in this big machine are not particularly allowed to be made. In any case, good coalition mates, ladies and gentlemen. In spirit, I'd like to be with you, but unfortunately, I'm pushing the red button today. I wish you every success in your dealings with Aunt Maal, if you have to explain to her why you spent her money! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U407	Now, I would like to ask Mr Juku-Kalle Raidi of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U408	Thanks! I'm glad Aivar talked a lot about it. I will add to this purchase of tanks and the Greek problem that they are also starting to build a new opera house.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U409	With whose money? Private money, private money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U410	Thank you for the clarification. I can't answer that. Probably with our money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U411	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U412	If the coalition that I belong to pushes the green button, that's how it's gonna go. But you see, we've been through a story, and all this help package, that it's basically our helper. It's very strange to help a person who wants a loan who knocks on your door and whose salary, for example, is twice as high as yours. Can you imagine that? I can't imagine! Then the head of the stairwell will probably come, as we have just happened, and says to lend apartment number 4 money, because that's what we've decided. I don't think that's very sane. In my opinion, it is precisely in the light of the forthcoming elections in Greece that we should look very closely at what guarantees Greece can actually give to this money. There are no guarantees. If we leave this Riigikogu hall, we can investigate in one way or another, each according to his own intelligence, depending on who he communicates with. But I guess there aren't any fully-sighted economists in Europe who think that what we're guaranteeing right now is going to work. On the contrary, it's probably not going to work. We know very well that this injection marks the emergence of a drug addict, this injection is by no means the last. Now, good people, before one side of the hall starts pushing the green and the other side of the hall with the red button, let me remind you of one more thing. It is as if we are doing business, as if we are lending, but, dear friends, have you thought about what kind of partner can we have, for example, an average Greek MEP? Of all the following things, 10% is allowed to be cut, but no guarantee. It's all in a review by Andres Arraku published in the last newspaper in Keskus. I'll read you these numbers. The monthly salary of a Member shall be EUR 8594, with an additional fee of EUR 5000 for the office. The State also pays other costs: rent and electricity bill. The prize is 500 euros for Christmas, 250 euros for Easter and 250 euros for holiday. There are four secretaries and advisors at work. Permanent compensation for mobile phone use is €200 per month, €3,300 per year for four landlines. An additional EUR 150 is granted for membership of the Parliamentary Committee. There are free-of-charge buses, trains and ships, as well as up to 60 free flights per year for Members of Parliament residing outside Athens. The lease payments of the car are compensated by the State. The fee for summer sessions is exempt. Unfortunately, it's a reality. 1000 euros per month is paid for the apartment or hotel, the official visit is overnight at a five-star hotel, plus 150 euros of daily allowance. Public institutions, such as museums, are free of charge if they have not lit one of them. For example, an interest-free loan can be granted to build a house. Members who were elected before 1993 will receive a double pension from the age of 55 onwards. And a very funny point at the end: the spouse and unmarried daughter of a dead Member will be paid the pension. My point is simple: do we want to do business with these people? Think! I don't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U413	Thank you, good Juku-Kalle! Don't be jealous! Mr Tarmo Leinatamme, next on the floor, please. I'm sorry! Please, Eiki!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U414	Thank you, manager. I have a procedural request not to disturb the speakers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U415	But I didn't interrupt the speaker! He's already gone. Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U416	Good manager! Dear Riigikogu! I'm not here on the remote for tomorrow's news or for the hordes of voters expected in three years' time. I'm just saying what I mean. Today, we are delighted to wave after a large dump truck full of euros and pour them into a black hole. We look each other in the eye with encouragement that this is the right decision. It is probably the right decision, because we are told how much effort is being made in Greece: the famous train driver, Nikos, no longer receives the 14th monthly salary, and his good neighbour, Mr Ioánnis, has to wait two weeks longer to retire. We've been so blinded by it that we keep sending these dumplers on the road. Put a black hole in it! At the same time, we know very well that the causes are elsewhere: mentality, culture, tradition, everyday perceptions. Europe, together with the euro, has failed to bring there an understanding of how to deal with the euro. They roll this euro in their hands like their good old drachma, which for years kept their country alive with fiscal whiskers. We can talk here with pride about the e-Tax Board, we can talk about financial discipline, but if the sun still shines on your head, and if you've sucked in with your mother's milk so much as to know that the debt may still be a little foreign, then the Troikas, Merkels, Sarkozys, Ansips, or the Figs won't help us eradicate it. When the tax officer comes to visit, he goes away with fresh olive oil, wine, and a large barrel of rock, and the year is well drawn down. I propose that we do a favor to one of the oldest civilizations in the world and let them continue their drachma. They have been doing this for thousands of years, and I believe that they will certainly be able to continue to do so. Now I come to this memorandum. Once you have read it, you will certainly understand that it is essentially a fiscal occupation of the European Union. How the occupiers are dealt with is what we know very well about our recent past. A proud Greek turns his back on us, fails to pay any more taxes and settles all the necessary matters by bribery. Our permanent troika, who is being sent there, must say again that this memorandum did not work either. If the Greek Government and the Members of Parliament did not care for decades of where such a rattling and lending lifestyle leads, then I am sorry, I do not care about how they come out of this mess either today. I know the regular Greek grows olive trees, cucumbers and tomatoes are taken from the garden, and a bell tickles on the neck of the goat. They'll be fine. I'm pretty sure of it, and I'm not worried. Now I'm gonna tell you on the left side of the hall. I, like you, am a member of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia and must base my decisions on the fact that I am a member of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. What face do I look in my second job tomorrow in the eyes of colleagues whose salary I dare not say here? What am I gonna tell the teachers what I'm gonna say to the rescuers and the police if we take a bunch of money with a dumpler, so they get 14th and 15th pay in Greece, and retire at the age of 55? I know that it would certainly not be wise to spread this money around the country and raise the salaries of teachers and cultural workers, but from a distance, from the moon, they are still comparable sizes and activities. If our state budget spending on education and culture is at the forefront of Europe, I ask: why do our teachers and cultural figures get the worst pay in Europe? If our public finances are in order, I ask: why does a large part of Estonians live in the mouth of a party, having completed higher education and going to full-time work? If there is an answer to these questions, let us help the Greeks to get the wheel started, but it still looks like Greece, not like us, because it has not worked like us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U417	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm. Igor Gräzini, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U418	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U419	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U420	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! It's not about the money. The money we are discussing for Greece today is already gone. We decided on 29 September last year. The relevant text was presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but in fact it presented a new one at 20:36 and at 9:59 the session was over, which makes our work at a rate of approximately EUR 2 million per minute. By the way, only two and a half months later, on 13 December, the European Union began to think for the first time about what to do with this money. The result was that England and the Czech Republic gave up their participation in the monetary agreement and that Hungary and Sweden took the time off. Anyway, we were fast about giving money like oiled lightning. What the hell. This money, which we are discussing a little today, went and, before we went behind the bend, whistled once more at Kaarepere station, as Oskar Luts said. So it's not about the money, it's settled. However, on that same 13 December, Europe also decided that the euro area countries would have to discuss and adopt laws on the ESM, i.e. the European Stability Mechanism, within the framework of the same general programme of euro-related measures. Those two things were together. Since this last one is scheduled for March and the text has already been formulated, proposals on this matter can be expected on our tables at any moment. As there is a risk that all of this could also be voted through in a few minutes during an extraordinary session, I consider it necessary to say the following in connection with today's debate. Since the ESM contains provisions that change the constitutional state of Estonia, as well as the conditions under which Estonia entered the European Union, it is necessary to consider today whether and in what form the principles of the ESM must be adopted by Estonia and, if so, in what order. I recall: the idea of setting up a European stability mechanism is that the participating countries commit themselves to contributing part of their budget for the euro area in order to stabilise the euro as a common currency. The European Stability Mechanism means that Estonia does not decide on the need to give money and its volume. If I recall how easily we issued a two-billion-dollar guarantee in September, I also admit that perhaps we want to give up our budget in favour of Europe. I don't know. But I don't want it. Maybe I belong to a minority again. It's all about the other stuff. This decision must be clear and well-informed and may require the implementation of the arrangements provided for in order to improve the Constitution. To this end, the draft must be put to the reading in the Riigikogu three times, with two months between the readings in one case and one month in the other. In short, in Chapter XV of the Constitution, we can all read it. Märt Rask, Minister of Justice of the Republic of Estonia, said in Postimees on 29 April 2002 that the decision to join the European Union must not be deceived by the people. Ten years later, as his party partner, I say the same thing about the ESM. As for the money we're discussing today, whatever it is, in the mouth of a wolf, in the belly of a wolf. Gone! Finally, we have given our word of honor. No silver, no gold in our land, but there's a word of honor. We have given it, and today we have to keep it. As honestly as I thought that the EFSF was not needed at that time and not now, I just think today that the Estonian word of honor is one of the most expensive things that we have to give and hold. Even this executional money is not worth breaking the Estonian word of honor. There was one other thing that made me think. We are talking about Greece, about money, about conditions. But what happens to Macedonia and its desire to join the European Union and NATO was not discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U421	Thank you, Mr Gräzin. Peter Võsa, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U422	Thank you very much. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U423	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In preparing my speech today, I asked people on social networks to tell you what they had to say. Today, it became clear in this Chamber that the will of the majority of the people will not be taken into account. Okay, but I'll still tell you what people have to say. First, starving children, there's about 50,000 of them. Second, families of many children who are doomed to poverty. Third, dental allowance. Doesn't our hardworking and patient people really deserve this? Fourthly, the taxes that this government has raised insanely. Fifth, an economy that this government has managed to screw up. Sixthly, deportation to Finland and elsewhere to look for a job in the wide world. Seventhly, people with disabilities and their carers have been neglected carelessly. Eighth, the closure of the rescue squads and the fire deaths of that winter. Let them be on your soul! Ninth, union and teacher strike. You're not capable of dialogue. Tenth, huge profits and unfairly high wages in state companies, such as Eesti Energia. By the eleventh, the Prime Minister is calling the public names right here in this Chamber, and he doesn't even apologize properly. By the twelfth, the invalid Jaan from South Estonia asks Hanno Pevkur to organise the regularisation of euthanasia, which would allow the disabled to be sent away from this emergency valley with dignity. Thirteenth. No, I'm not gonna call that number because it's an unhappy number. Be careful that you make today's decision not to fulfill the cup of human suffering to the last drop! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U424	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult to come here on the remote after what the previous waitress said here and what it has all sounded like, but it cannot fail to say any other arguments that exist and which need to be taken into account and taken as a basis for decision. Mr Igor rightly said that we already decided last autumn that Estonia would be involved in resolving the European debt crisis. Today, we are actually confirming a concrete step towards resolving this. Indeed, we ourselves need to find the answer to the question of why we have to support Greece, and to say it openly. This sounds like a repetition, which is known to be the mother of wisdom, but I say that Estonia does not give money from the state budget with this decision; it is not transferred anywhere; Estonia gives a loan guarantee, which amounts to 0.27% of 100%, which is 99.73%. Do any of us really consider it an alternative to borrowing to cover our daily expenses? So where do we get off to? Is it the same place that Greece is now? This example is crazy enough. Secondly, lending money to Greece through the common stability mechanism is linked to very specific conditions, which are being monitored on an ongoing basis. The loan shall be paid in instalments. If the conditions are met, the money will be paid, if not, it will not. I think that everyone who has bothered to read through this 50-page memorandum will understand that there is not much left for the Greeks to fill in this independent country. But they've taken themselves to it. Maybe now, whoever pays will order the music. It has already been said here that the Greeks have too many salaries. After all, the memorandum clearly states that, in addition to the wage cuts last year, the minimum wage will have to be reduced by 22% from 1 January 2012, and 32% for the age of 25. In the coming months, the Greeks will have to reduce various social benefits, pharmaceutical benefits, increase tariffs, liberalise the economy, or do everything that, at a distance, seems essential to them to manage the money they can collect themselves in the form of taxes. After all, it is clear that everything in the world is connected. We certainly cannot think that Greece's uncontrolled bankruptcy would somehow be in our interests. Even the great countries of Europe are afraid of this uncontrolled bankruptcy. Even less so, it can be the wish of a small country like us. When we talk about helping, there are several criteria here. On the basis of the material criterion, we can say that, of course, it is useful to assist us, because if we give up one euro to the European Union, we will receive about five euros in return. This was not only the case yesterday, but it will also be the case tomorrow, at least until 2020. But it's only a material side. How can we forget about the moral side of aiding and say that no, we are not going to help anyone, we are not willing to help, while hoping that they will come to our aid? If the sums are very large, some simple examples can sometimes help. Let me give you an example. Friends are together and decide to lend 100 euros to a partner: the German will set a table for 27 euros, the French for 20 euros and the Estonian will put 27 cents on the table. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U425	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U426	That is what these are in an understandable dimension of the proportions in the loan guarantee that we are giving together with other countries. But if at the table goes for decision-making, discussion, then Estonia's vote is equal to the others, despite the fact that we only put 27 cents on the corner of the table. This is because we can say that we have things in order at home, and the change that arises in Estonia due to the decisions of these last few years is already visible. Let's look at the gross wage growth, see that the real wage grows for the second quarter in a row. Estonia, together with other countries, requires Greece to stop covering daily expenses from borrowing money, to personalise tax accounts, to implement digital prescriptions, to control the compensation and prices of medicines, to privatise companies that are not necessary for the performance of the state function, to make business rules more free, etc. Greece would then actually do everything that we ourselves have already done. Countries like Greece are struggling with how to make the economy grow, how to make money to repay loans and pay interest, but we have the opportunity to think about how to fairly share the extra money from growth in our own budget. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this decision, to support Estonia's participation in the Greek aid package, because it is in our own interest, it is in Estonia's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U427	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U428	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are facing a really difficult decision today. Certainly many, I think, even all parliamentarians have serious doubts about the document that we are debating today. However, I cannot agree with the arguments of many of the Centre Party and some coalition ambassadors, as if this plan was not ambitious enough and the Greeks did not make enough effort. I understand how ordinary people, who have not read this very long and thorough document, speak this way, but it does not suit the people who have read this document. However, I have no doubt that the government should have taken the whole issue more seriously to the public. The people of Estonia are smart enough to understand difficult decisions, but they must, of course, be explained very thoroughly. I also had the same complaint to the government in September, when it had been known throughout the summer that joining the EFSF would come on the agenda, but the government began to explain the matter a week before the Riigikogu had to take a bitter decision. Such situations are likely to arise. I really ask the government and the Minister of Finance not to appear as all-knowing technocratics who make the right decisions despite the opinion of the so-called stupid people. This is not right in a democratic country, and it certainly does not bring more trust to our country's system. As far as the content of the matter is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the following problem. This whole comprehensive document is, in my view, very good in terms of budget cuts and wage flexibility. Indeed, serious work has been done here and it remains to be hoped that Greek society will be able to accept such severe cuts with a reasonable mind. At the same time, I am concerned about the fact that, although in the near future, the focus on cuts is certainly the only one, as it will deliver the fastest results, in the longer term, it is also important to talk about slightly different measures to improve Greece's competitiveness. The Greek economy has little hope of achieving stable economic growth in a more or less stable social situation, if the increase in competitiveness is due only to wage cuts and not to real productivity gains, as it is today. As the programme aims to reduce the debt burden to 120% of GDP by 2020, it should certainly not only focus on measures until 2014, as Jürgen Ligi said in reply to me. Hence my main complaint to this plan. Unfortunately, almost nothing has been said here about reforming the education system and improving its effectiveness, nor has there been talk of active labour market measures that would improve the qualifications of the workforce, helping Greece to rise again. Jürgen Ligi is right that it will really take quite a few years to achieve results through these measures, but since the deadline for reducing the debt burden is 2020 these measures should, however, necessarily focus already on them. By the way, it is also a place where the European Union can certainly make a significant contribution through its funds and the competence of its Member States. Without these measures, there is really reason to seriously doubt that the Greek economy can be turned to growth in a sustainable manner. Without growth, however, the debt target is certainly not achievable. That is my substantive and rational justification for voting against this package. At the same time, Greece's uncontrolled insolvency in mid-March would have serious consequences for the whole of Europe, including Estonia. That is why I feel like the majority of the MPs in two ways: I would like to vote 'no', but the potential risks of such a decision are too great to be rationally able to do so. Anecdotically speaking, although I have said to several media today that I am voting in favour of this decision, to my surprise, I saw from the Russian 'Actual Camera' that I had spoken incomprehensiblely because it was said that I had said that I would vote against it. I probably got an intuitive opinion on today's decision. I think the majority of the members of the Riigikogu actually share this. I fully understand the good colleagues who vote against this decision and justify it by disliked by the people. I'd like a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U429	We'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U430	I would, of course, like the voters myself, but I think voting 'no' would be completely irresponsible and unacceptable at the moment. I have many doubts as to whether this programme will help Greece out. I am critical of the government's action in explaining the problems of the euro zone to the public and I strongly oppose the all-knowing attitude of some members of the government towards their people. However, this does not allow me to vote in favour of the bankruptcy of Greece today. Many things can be argued, but it is clear that Greece's uncontrolled insolvency would be extremely dangerous to the political system throughout Europe, as well as to security. As a young European, I also agree to stay outside the next Riigikogu in order to save the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U431	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U432	Madam President, thank you very much. Good night, ladies and gentlemen. I am voting against the approval of the memorandum. For a number of reasons, unlike what my colleague has just reported here. First. Who are calling on us today to show solidarity and support Greece in this difficult time? Who is saying that we should support the aid package for Greece with a view to preventing greater losses in the European economy? These are, in my view, members of the Government of the Republic of Estonia who, in my opinion, should not use the word'solidarity' at all, because they do not know what solidarity means. At least our government has repeatedly confirmed this by its actions and omissions. Why are we talking about solidarity and making big words? Why we must show solidarity with Greece, but not with our people, I ask. It is asking for the approval of a package of aid to help Greece and ready to launch, if necessary, as Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi said today, the reserves that have been put aside with great effort. What signs of solidarity have the government shown toward its people? Was it solidarity when consumer taxes were raised: VAT, various excise duties? All of us know that raising consumption taxes, in particular the taxation of essential goods, fuel, electricity, indoor heating, has a greater impact on the wallet and livelihood of people with low incomes. By the way, if you read Greek plans for financial instruments, you will find that indirect taxes will not be increased. They know how to keep their people. Is it solidarity that we were mobilised with the unemployment fund and the sickness fund without reaching agreement between the parties? Is it solidarity if, in times of economic downturn, the reserves of the unemployment fund increase rather than decrease? Is it solidarity, or is it a manifestation of the intention to withdraw from the previous agreement from the beginning of the new year, to allow the deceased, in agreement with the parties, to receive unemployment benefit? Yes, we have made the labour market flexible, but where are the workers' guarantees that were promised? This talk of solidarity could go on for a long time. We're used to hearing there's no money and no money. But when making this year's budget, defence expenditure was raised to the same level as Greece, i.e. 2% of GDP, and one billion Estonian kroons were found to do so. We also have the means to go along with increasing the upper limit on parental benefit, but we do not have the money to support raising children. I asked the Prime Minister in Question Time last Wednesday, what has the Prime Minister done for families with our children, having been head of government for seven years soon? The Prime Minister could only mention one thing: the period of parental benefit has been extended for six months. I don't know any kids who grow up at age one and a half. Last year more than 1,100 children were born in Estonia. The Prime Minister said in Question Time that no conclusions can be drawn from it, so let's wait. What if the number of women who could give birth is at the top right now? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U433	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U434	Can it also be concluded that the Estonian economy fell most in Europe by 15%, that we have 50,000 unemployed, most of whom are long-term unemployed, that more than 65000 children are living in poverty or at risk of poverty, or that according to official statistics, 4348 children are living in Finland who are born in Estonia, with an official population of nearly 30000 people from Estonia living in Finland? Another reason why I cannot support participation in the aid package is the fact that I do not see that if the package were to materialise, it would be hoped that Greece's problems would be resolved. A private company or a private individual will also not grant a loan if it sees that the organisation or person who wants the loan has lost confidence and is not expected to repay the loan. The main reason I think it is this. Contrary to many, I believe that the Greeks work hard, they are not lazy, but the Greeks do not like to pay taxes, and this is a habit that does not change the IMF with fingertips or precepts. Habits change very persistently and in a very long time. We know that Greece did not meet the targets set last year and did not manage structural reforms. Why would he do it now? Today's decision to grant a loan to Greece will, in my opinion, only delay the inevitable, and we will soon be discussing even greater amounts here. Finally, the inevitable comes, and Greece is forced to leave the euro zone. We're only gonna postpone it today, but then they're gonna be richer by the unrefundable loan we gave us, and we're gonna be poorer by that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U435	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U436	Maybe you don't need that eight minutes, but all I want to say is I'll say it. First of all, I want to pay tribute to everyone here, both to the left and to the right of the hall. Why am I doing this? When the Honourable Minister of Finance, in his statement to Parliament in his reproof, said that we were the only ones to discuss this issue, as if we were dealing with an empty, unnecessary matter, then I remembered a photograph. There was plenty of time, and I could find it. Since you can't see it, I'll tell you about it. This is a very famous photo taken in 1936 at a Hamburg shipbuilding plant. There was a Nazi event. There are 98 people in the picture, and 97 of them have raised their hand for Nazi greeting. One who's been circled around is standing inside this gang with his arms on his chest, probably knowing what's waiting for him. Being the one who has an opinion and a desire to discuss something is worthy of respect. Once again, regardless of how you vote, it is already good that we are discussing this issue. But I'm gonna say a few keywords besides what's already sounded here today. When I am told that we are all members of the euro area, and that is why, and only because of this, we have to help Greece, I want to remind you of what you know without me. You know how Estonia worked hard to meet the Maastricht criteria. I have basically disagreed with this, and I opposed joining the euro area then and still am. But you know that when Greece joined, the Maastricht criteria were forged. If the European Union wanted to control it, it would have done so and Greece would not be in the euro area at the moment. Were we the ones who took the decision to accept Greece into the euro area? Were we on it? Why did some, seeing how the Greek economy is developing, and knowing the results it could bring, nevertheless accept it, but all, even those who did not know about it and did not take part in it, have to be jointly and severally held accountable? The responsible one must be the one who closed his eyes ten years ago! Here today, in a strange way, there have been a number of talks about socialism in a number of presentations. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand you very well. Socialism is, of course, the same word as communism, fascism and others. Regardless of how you view the word, try to find out before you use it what socialism means, what the classics or their critics thought about it. There are different views. I am saying that what is happening in Greece is economic anarchy, socialism is nothing to do with it. All the more so when you call Greece socialist, why should we support them? Solidarity! I understand that Europe must pull itself together. The reasoning given by the right side of the hall is quite strong. Colleagues! I would have reason to join you because, according to § 62 of the Constitution, I am not involved in the mandate and can vote in this Chamber as my conscience says. It is very possible that I would have joined you if you had shown solidarity with your people. My colleagues have given dozens of reasons here, and I could bring them too. What are local authorities suffering for? For what do those who receive social benefits suffer? For what do the unemployed suffer? Tell me, what active labour market development measures have we used in Estonia? How have we shown solidarity with those who see only one way out of Estonia? There is no solidarity within the country, I do not see the possibility of supporting so-called solidarity outside the country either. To sum it up. We have been discussing here for a long time, the argument is very different, and for many people it is quite and quite individual. But I'm gonna finish what I started. This process in itself deserves respect, but if you need any solidarity, consolidation in Parliament, remember not only today, but also on other days, that there are people next to you who want to be taken into account, even on some issues. I've been here in the Riigikogu for quite a long time. I must tell you that what the Riigikogu has become compared to 1999 and 2000, when I was in Parliament, is frustrating. It's so depressing. We had political competitors at the time, had the Fatherland Alliance, yet we could negotiate at the time. There were no personal relations, there were negotiations and many things that were important for Estonia were resolved, they were not passed over. Think about the future, too, that if you want to cooperate, you have to do it day by day, not at random at a particular hour of the night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U437	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U438	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to speak, and I am therefore speaking more or less ad hocly, having listened to the thoughts of my fellow Members. Yeah, it's hard to make that decision. It hurts a sense of justice in many ways. Greece's behavior may upset us. It's all right. However, we cannot reduce the whole problem to the behaviour of the Greeks or to internal political billing among us. I want to remind you of the European project. Why was the European Union created? The idea of creating it, as you know, was to ensure peace and prosperity in Europe. Peace has been achieved in this ever-changing Europe. With prosperity, things have not gone exactly as they may have hoped at first. Indeed, perhaps French and German banks have been greedy and governments have made mistakes in controlling banks, introducing the euro and establishing supervision. Yes, mistakes have been made. But mistakes can always be corrected. If we let things go our way, it would be clear that Greece would end bankruptcy and that all the money that has ever been put there would be blown to the wind. We'd miss all of this, and the result would be zero. But it is not even about money anymore, it is still about Europe, the question is that if we do not react and try to help, then Greece will fall into chaos. It would be even worse if Greece were in a civil war. This would already be a failure of Europe and, without any doubt, a very great loss for us. Europe is a strategic security project for us and we must support it, even if it is very difficult for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U439	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U440	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years it has been the case that when the socialists talk about the collapse of Lehman Brothers, it is said that it is a crisis of liberalism, and when the Liberals talk about Greece's coming insolvency, it is said that it is a crisis of socialism. One of the previous speakers called socialism a word of socialism. In the current American Republican presidential debates, liberalism is the word of scorn. Of course, these words are given very different content in different countries, in different cultures. But it doesn't matter. Today we have a decision before us that is very complicated, very controversial and very weighty. Such a decision must certainly be made prudently and soberly. We choose between bad and worse. We have before us a memorandum aimed at preventing Greece's uncontrolled insolvency and maintaining the financial stability of the euro area. This is a memorandum to which the euro area as a whole has expressed its support. One party, the Centre Party, has said that they are opposed to approving this memorandum. I ask myself what they would do if they were in the government right now. Would we like to give our country the helm to a party that is ready to sink a member of the European Union and then perhaps the whole eurozone? One member of this party said that if the Centre Party were in power, we would not have gotten into this mess. It is very possible that, in this case, we really would not be in the European Union and certainly not in the euro zone. In fact, I think we might still be, because this party is very capable of changing its positions, depending on whether they are in government or opposition, also on strategic issues. We remember well how the Centre Party, as a member of the government of Siim Kallas, concluded the accession negotiations with the European Union in order to then vote against the accession of the European Union as a fallen opposition. Do we want to give our country to a party that is capable of changing its position in matters of strategic importance to statehood? Pretend that we can sink Greece and perhaps the whole euro zone, and that then Estonia would be better, I don't think it is very responsible. The government coalition, on the other hand, has decided to express its solidarity with Greece, but above all, with the great powers of Europe. Such solidarity would undoubtedly be much easier to justify to its people if the government were to show even a minimum of solidarity with its own people. My colleague, Mrs Leinahamm, spoke about teachers and cultural workers who are eagerly looking forward to a decent salary. I will include students who are looking for student benefits and former students who have legitimate expectations of reimbursement of their student loans. This list could be continued for a long time. I, too, have no certainty as to whether the Greek rescue package, in the form it is currently being developed, will still work. It depends on a number of things, and there are more questions than answers. Firstly, it depends on whether the Greek Government can enforce what has been agreed with all these European experts and experts. Secondly, whether the IMF and other international organisations have been able to adequately assess the impact of the measures foreseen in the package on Greece's future growth. There's nothing specific about this either. But above all, the enforceability of this package depends on whether the Greek people are prepared to come along with their political leadership at the minimum necessary level and, above all, with the demands of international creditors. We will get the first answer to this in the forthcoming Greek elections. We have seen that more and more countries that have fallen into debt traps have been given to lead specialists and technocratics instead of politicians. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U441	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U442	This concerns not only Greece, which is called socialist here, but also, for example, conservative Italy. Today, the Minister of Finance spoke about the debate on the postponement of the Greek elections. I look at all of this with great fear, because undoubtedly solving the problem by moving away from parliamentary democracy cannot be sustainable. The same is true in Estonia. A former colleague, Hannes Astok, wrote about how Estonia began to distance itself from real parliamentary democracy on the brink of the crisis, on the pretext that quick decisions without the necessary debate, without discussing society, but also with Parliament, are essential to react to sudden problems. I'm sure it's dangerous. We are a parliamentary democracy. This means that politicians may at times be ahead of their own people, of public opinion, but in the end they must win the people over, so that what they have agreed in Parliament or in the cabinet can actually be enforced. In addition to solidarity with Greece, Germany and France, solidarity with its people is essential for this. My colleague, Mrs Vasilyev, said in the first-reading negotiations that, above all, we must assess the impact of this memorandum on Estonia by pressing the voting button. This is undoubtedly our primary responsibility as members of the Estonian Parliament. As I said, we have bad choices before us. In this case, it is probably not worth looking for particular virtues, but it is worth considering what happens in both of these decisions in the worst scenarios. If we are to vote in favour of approving this memorandum today, we must of course take into account that, in the worst case scenario, we will actually have to bear these guarantees. If we vote against the adoption of this memorandum today, we will have to consider something far worse in the worst-case scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U443	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U444	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also say that I am not prepared for this speech because I represented the Commission and it was quite difficult. But listening to these discussions in this Chamber, I still felt it was right to take a short step. Obviously, all the speakers today have said that this is indeed a very difficult decision, that arguments must be considered and that choices must be made between bad decisions and worse ones. With regard to the Greek aid package and the whole programme, look at the positive things. First of all, we have heard a great deal of criticism about Greece and we have given drastic examples. However, take into account that this is a potential country for growth, and at some point it will certainly recover. It may not be possible in the coming years, but one day this country will recover from this situation. This is a country with, for example, a strong tourism potential. All the reforms presented in this programme, even by increasing labour flexibility and tax reform, are reforms that increase competitiveness, which are essential to be carried out. The Commission is monitoring and monitoring, but the Commission is basically helping this country. I have, at least, understood from the current political leaders in Greece that resolving the situation, servicing debts and restoring investor confidence are still at the forefront at the moment. Of course, there are major weaknesses in this program. We can see that there are mutually conflicting objectives here. On the one hand, it cuts demand and has a negative impact on economic growth. I dare say that Greece may need the next package of assistance, in addition to the existing ones. There's a risk, you can't deny it. There are forecasts that debt will not reach 120.5% of GDP by 2020, but will remain at 160% for the next ten years. There is also a risk that Greece may not regain its competitiveness within the EU. Let us be honest, the Greek State itself has failed lenders in the past, they have not kept their promises. It certainly creates an atmosphere that does not deepen confidence. All the reforms on which this programme can be read will be implemented when these conditions are met, as it says, but they will still have a real impact in years' time. We see and hear from the media how social tensions are growing in Greece. The April elections are at high risk. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U445	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U446	After all, even those things that appear to have already been agreed, the project involving private investors, the contribution of the IMF, are not yet in place. So what's the alternative? If this package does not apply, then it is likely that the country will fail and the question arises who will be next. The currency risk will return to the euro area. Will the economic situation improve as a result of bankruptcy and devaluation compared to what it is in the light of these cuts? I'm sure it's gonna get a lot worse. This is followed by a collapse of banking, an out of control of inflation. After all, the state has to import quite a lot of goods. Well, there's a very large part of the groceries. What are they gonna cost? Not to mention what bankruptcy will bring to the financial sector if the debt insurance mechanism in the CDS is implemented. There was talk of devaluation. Devaluation may provide temporary relief, but it will not restore competitiveness. So the alternative doesn't really exist or the alternative is many times worse. Consequently, I call on all members of the Riigikogu to consider this decision seriously. My proposal is to support this decision. I really call on all the political groups to contribute to the stability of the euro area and to show solidarity with the rest of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U447	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U448	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't plan on coming to the premiere today and stretching your already long evening even longer. But I can't do it any different. After a few speeches, I must be here before you. First of all, I would very much like to congratulate those members of the coalition who have today opposed the party's chain of command and said that they do not agree with this decision. The courage to oppose the party's chain of command is, of course, worthy of recognition. But when I listen to these arguments, it's hard for me to take all this seriously. We have been chosen here so that we can make compromises on a reasonable level, so that we stand, yes, for our outlook and beliefs, but we can also find a common part in society. A good colleague, Rait Maruse, spoke about the common part of Europe right here on the floor. I am pleased that he recalled why the European Union was created. I hear that the members of the Riigikogu come here to address rhetorical questions to the chairmen of their political parties and come to arguments that show them as jealous people, they cultivate something that there is no reason to be proud of. I feel, ladies and gentlemen, sincere concern with you that teachers' pay does not rise. I have a sincere concern with you that cultural workers will receive a small salary. I think you have reason to believe I'm doing this. But I think it is petty to come up with this argument when we are talking about Greece, that is one of the few European countries where I have failed to walk, I do not know which people live there, to come up with this argument now that you have never drawn attention to it in the budgetary procedure, at least you were never clear enough to understand that you were standing up for it. I very much hope that such petty sentiments will remain on this day, which is known as the anniversary of the army, and tomorrow, when we celebrate the anniversary of our republic, you will rise slightly above what you have done here today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U449	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U450	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have had an effective day today and all the questions that have been asked certainly deserved to be heard. Many of the answers were quite substantive, and the call round that will take place at the end of this day has also been worth listening to. I am afraid that this debate will say more about our own and Estonian policies than about our positions towards Europe. In some ways, an illustrative lesson is also that in this Parliament there is a proverb that there is no bigger animal for a mouse than a cat and no bigger competition for a socialist than the Centre Party. We don't look at them like that. We think that one good thing we've done, that even the Sos could praise us for. That's because today's debate is even happening here. Let us remind you: if the Centre Party had not been determined in the autumn for the interests of the Estonian people, this debate would not take place here today. This debate would have taken place behind closed doors in the Committee on European Union Affairs. Many people would never have known the day before the anniversary of the Republic that such guarantees would be worried about the Estonian Parliament. The previous speakers talked a lot about their personal image, and I too have thought about this question through my own prism. My ancestor was a minister. He was a man of great heart who took the loan of a member of the congregation in distress. This member of the congregation did not have such a strong heart, he did not pay off the loan, and he left the area. My ancestor, the father of a large family, paid off this loan all the time between the two world wars because he was the guarantor. The guarantee can turn against you if it is not reliable. Do we think about it when we pledge the Estonian budget money? Do we think that Greece has had problems meeting previous loan conditions? The Estonian Riigikogu tries to ratify this loan quickly within 24 hours, exceptionally. Yesterday they asked whether this was an exception, whether it was for the benefit of the Estonian people or for the benefit of someone else. Let us think that Greece itself has had three quarters of a year. The negotiations on the last package also lasted weeks and weeks, but we still don't know the whole background. We recall that in October last year, the finance ministers of the euro area postponed the decision to pay out EUR 8 billion to Greece, which Greece needed to pay its bills. It was threatened that if this was not done quickly, Europe would immediately collapse. There were also problems with compliance during the summer, which is why the planned aid loan payment was postponed in order to put a little pressure on Greece. Now it's rhetoric that Greece has taken its legs out of the belly and something is happening, no promises have been made. Please note that this memorandum has already made promises by March this year. Some promises are not fulfilled; on some issues, Europe has closed its eyes. The Greek bond holders in the private sector have accepted that their losses will exceed 70%. It is said that EFSF money goes not to help Greece, but to help these national borrowers, but also to cover bad loans from European banks. I heard the argument that by helping Europe's big banks, we are also helping our banks. As early as autumn, the Centre Party did not take a negative position without worrying what this could lead to for Estonian banks. We met with representatives of banks operating in Estonia and found out that the mandatory reserve ratio for banks operating in Estonia, i.e. the bank's mandatory liquidity reserve, is 15% of the assets. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U451	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U452	In the European Union, the minimum reserve ratio is 2% of assets. Therefore, in essence, a bank could and could artificially generate EUR 50000 of EUR 1000 through loans. Consequently, European banks are much less capitalised and the write-off of Greek loans ends in fatal ruin. Our banks have not provided these loans. By granting this guarantee, we voluntarily bear part of the likely losses of these banks. This guarantee will turn against the guarantor if the situation in Greece is worse than it seems to us. Today, the Minister of Finance told the Riigikogu that he has not seen any additional risk audits and has not taken an interest in them either. However, this is entirely public material, a report for the finance ministers of the euro area, which paints a gloomy picture of the economic situation in Greece. According to the report, savings measures have negative consequences and the second rescue package agreed at the beginning of this week is not enough for a very long time. At best, the savings measures drive Greece into such a deep recession that the new three-year rescue package is not enough to remove the sovereign debt crisis, this report warns. If Greece is forced into austerity, public debt could grow and the economy could suffer great losses. However, debt restructuring can deter future investors and make it more difficult for the country to return to the financial markets. This report already sounds like it is ready to close another eye again, but at worst it sounds like Greece needs a new rescue package of up to EUR 245 billion before 2020. So there is a cycle in which new debts are incurred to cover old debts, and we are prepared to give this debt or guarantee, an extremely long euro loan, which some people, including those from academic background, have actually called a non-repayable loan. In this Chamber, we are obliged to think above all about what is in the interests of the Estonian people. If the Estonian Parliament has said in a row that we do not have enough money for teachers or local governments and without tax increases, why do we have money for a decision that we do not know all the nuances of, and for which our participation is higher in percentage than for countries that are very wealthier than us? That is why we are saying no and it is a very responsible no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U453	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U454	Dear Members of Parliament! I don't think anyone in this hall is gonna make that decision with a light heart. Behind this decision, I say so both in favour and against the voters, there are a number of arguments. These arguments are indeed worth considering. These arguments have been considered by the governments of the euro area, the Estonian Government and the experts of the Ministry of Finance, and these arguments have also been discussed here by us, by all groups, by all groups of ambassadors. There are no black and white choices in life, even if they are to be portrayed that way. The vote in favour of this decision will lead to risks and the fact that Estonia would vote against this decision will also lead to risks. The impact and weight of these risks must certainly be assessed in a relevant and responsible manner. The responsibility we have assumed, being a Member State of the European Union and a country in the euro area, we have nowhere to go. That's what we should be clear about here. I want to congratulate Sven Mikser and the Social Democrats who have expressed their support and understood the responsibility that the Estonian state and the Estonian parliament have in making these decisions. Someone here recalled that it was Kadri that Parliament decided in the autumn that fundamental questions would come to the House and we would discuss them. I therefore find it somewhat incomprehensible or incomprehensible to the criticism that we are not making these decisions at a parliamentary pace. We and the Federal Republic of Germany are two euro-zone Member States that make these decisions at plenary level. I think this is the virtue of our parliamentary culture, not the minus. I did not like the ideas that opposed the representation of the interests of Estonia and the economic future of the European Union behind this decision. For those who contrast these categories, I recommend reading today's European Commission economic forecast for the future of the euro area and how this future will be envisaged in the next semester. In this regard, I would like to congratulate Mr Kõiv on the very constructive and responsible speech he made an hour and a half ago. The decision we make is a prudent decision. This is not an easy decision. Members of the IRL Group shall vote in favour of this decision. We have met experts and representatives of the Ministry of Finance before making this decision. When we prepared the decision in the Committee on Finance, we understood the responsibility that comes with our decision, but this decision is necessary so that we can discharge our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U455	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee proposes not to take this into account. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U456	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U457	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote Amendment No 1 tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group. This proposal has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the commission has proposed that it be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined and we are going to the final vote. We are preparing for the final vote. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U458	Thank you. I read in the explanatory memorandum to this draft decision that the adoption of this decision requires a majority of votes in favour. Should the adoption of this draft decision not require a majority of the membership? If you answer in one way or another, which one of you comes from?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-23_U459	This was discussed today in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. According to experts, there is no reason, according to the Constitution, for adopting this decision other than by simple majority. I rely on expert opinion. We're going to the voting procedure. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 'approval of the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions' in draft 185. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 32 against and no abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, The second additional sitting is closed. I wish you good night and tomorrow's beautiful anniversary of the Republic. Have a nice day, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 11.35 p.m.
