ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Good fellows! We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending the VAT Act, the need for which was created by the amendments to the National Death Allowance Act that were failed yesterday and yesterday in this Chamber. I am not going to repeat here all the arguments that already sounded here with regard to the ability of the Estonian people to organise funerals. All I am saying is that the draft is aimed at reducing VAT on funeral equipment from 20% to 9% in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U3	Good fellows, I have a few messages for you. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. I don't see any more calls. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to the President of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Dear colleagues, as a result of tomorrow's events in Toomepea Castle and the Riigikogu building, including in this hall, please take your work materials from the tables and drawers with you! Now, please, let's go through the presence check! 77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U4	Let us now begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the debate on the results of the 2011 population and housing census as a key national issue. Before we go to the debate, let me briefly present the procedure for this debate, which follows from § 153 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. The Board of the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, appointed the next procedure for discussing this important national issue. First, Ene-Margit Tiidu, the head of the population and housing census methodology, gives a presentation for up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. After that, andrei Hvostov will be the leader of NGO Noor Estonia for up to 15 minutes, followed by a round of questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. The speech by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, will then be up to 15 minutes and after that the questions and answers will be up to 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to all rapporteurs on this agenda item. The round of negotiations is after the round of questions and the speeches can be made by members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups. In accordance with our practice, we will make such an agreement that there will be representatives of the political groups first. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has proposed to extend today's sitting, if necessary, until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We will come back to this proposal in the course of our work if this is necessary. Let us begin the debate on today's first item. I call on the Chair of the Riigikogu for a presentation by the head of the population and housing census methodology. Professor Ene-Margit Tiit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U5	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is a pleasant task for me to talk about the great undertaking of past years, the census of people and housing in Estonia. This census is a global undertaking, and it would be very nice if the entire Earth's population would do other things as unitedly as they have viewed their counting. To date, more than 6 billion people have already been counted by the United Nations. Estonia is known to belong to the European Union, and in addition to the UN, the Estonian people's census has been coordinated and legalised by the European Union. This does not mean any pointless directives on banana curvature, but agreements on what are the most important things that are measured by counting people. It also means good comparability and transparency for all the countries of the European Union, and also that we really hope to see data from all the other countries to the same extent as we put out our own data. In Estonia, preparations for the census started already five years ago and it was quite tempting to propose that the census be made on a registry basis, because since 2000 quite a number of registers have started to work in Estonia, and it is understandable that counting data on the basis of the registers is much cheaper and much easier than questioning people. Registration-based censuses had been carried out in only a few Nordic countries by then. So, in the first few years, the situation of our registers was quite thoroughly analysed and it turned out that since the registers are young, no census can be made on their basis, despite their rather reasonable ideological basis. The biggest problem was that our people do not live in the places they have signed up to in the population register. Thus, the legal basis was the National Statistics Act, which stipulated that the census would be carried out using a combined method. The registers have been used both in preparation and in later data processing, but still only as a tool. Two options were envisaged for data collection. One was an online self - counting, and the other was an eye - to - eye interview using laptop computers. The first and most important question that has been repeatedly asked is who is counted. The censuses have basically two variants: either permanent or factual, i.e. the population present at the moment of the census. They are not very different from each other, but today a permanent population, i.e. people who live permanently in the country, is counted. Permanent resident status is obtained but also largely lost within 12 months, with the exception of exceptional cases. The permanent population is also included in international agreements for commuters who have a family in a given country, who spend most of their free time with them, even though for work they can live temporarily in another country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U6	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, it's buzzing in the hall. Please, let's keep it down, respect the waitress and honor those who want to listen! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U7	Thus, three categories of people were counted in Estonia: permanent residents, temporary residents who are staying in Estonia for 3 to 12 months, and persons who left Estonia as a whole as a new category, about whom their immediate relatives provided information. Here I explain that only permanent residents belong to the Estonian population, the rest being "additional information." In addition, residential spaces were counted as public and housing units, including uninhabited dwellings. And what is very important: households and families were also counted. We had an extraordinarily thorough questionnaire. Four censuses have been organised in Estonia and all these times have been asked very carefully about the status of the Estonian person, education, beliefs and, more recently, about the roots and ancestry. So, in addition to the questions that were internationally foreseen for outputs, questions were asked that were due to our traditions, but also to new research directions. Depending on whether it was a child or an adult person, and depending on the course of life, the question had to be answered in a personalized form. All these forms were equipped with helpful texts, which we had in three languages. Inventing the questions was quite a work on which the Commission was working, where experts were invited. It took several years to prepare all the forms, including the processing and testing of questions. Here is a small graph that shows how long it took to answer these questions. It has to be said immediately that it took the average household almost an hour to respond to all forms on the Internet, while the interviewer managed to do so in more than half of the time. Personal issues were complex, household issues also took a relatively long time, while housing issues were, on the other hand, very simple. The countdown began as always at the moment of the countdown, which was the beginning of the last day of last year, at 00.00. Why such a time? It was the EU's duty to start a census, i.e. to determine the census moment in 2011. On very many points, it seemed appropriate to choose precisely this moment, because it was a moment in which it was very easy for respondents to recall what happened before that and what happened afterwards. The first month was an online census, followed by 17 days to organize the data, and then until the end of the census, until 31 March, a survey census in the form of a simple survey. The biggest problem, of course, was the first-time e-counting, not only the fact that the census was made online, but it was the first self-counting. All people had to understand all the questions and answer them adequately. We did not have this experience in the past, but there were positive examples of the census's entry into the environment, and we hoped that people would cooperate. This, of course, meant very thorough explanations, customer support with multiple options, as well as checking the correct answer to questions through various automated logic checks, which exclude fingertips on the one hand, but also fooling around on the other. The result exceeded all our expectations. It turned out that, to put it roughly, two thirds of all countables were counted on the Internet, which was very clearly more than any other country has managed to achieve. At the same time, we had not a shorter form on the Internet, as some had, but a full form. And later inspection also showed that the forms filled in online were generally of high quality, with a very small percentage of the questions left unanswered. Here's a map that shows where the Internet was actively counted, where not very actively. It is clear that they were more active around the cities. Then there was a debriefing. Of course, those who had not counted on the Internet were questioned, but the spatial coordinates of all residential buildings were also specified and uninhabited dwellings checked. The survey was conducted using modern technology, laptop computers, GPS devices, and it was also possible to monitor this work continuously with the software concerned. The data was sent to the database on a regular basis. I have a small picture of the age at which people counted themselves online, the age at which the interviewer was expected to come home. The limit was 65 years. Data protection and security measures were taken very seriously, there were no data leaks. The pre-filled data was shown only to the person himself, not even to the household members, and the data was stored and transmitted only in encrypted form, and even in the event of computer loss it was not possible to read the data on the computer. And the counters themselves could no longer see the completed forms. Data processors may in some cases see information identifying forms, but not along with their questionnaire replies. Now the primary results. A total of 1294236 Estonian residents were counted. As regards the decline in population by nearly 76000 people compared to the previous census, was that a surprise? In general, much of this chaos was known in advance. The negative natural advantages were constantly recorded and known at Statistics Estonia at all times. It was more than 30,000 people. It is true, as regards the negative natural breeze, that it decreased from year to year and reached zero in recent years. The negative balance of registered emigration was around 22000 people. Unregistered emigration is only estimable, it can be assumed that it is about the same size. The question also arose that not all people could be counted. Undercover means that some people are left uncounted. This is a very big problem for today's censuses. There are always people who refrain from counting, those who simply do not give in to themselves. For a number of reasons, almost all countries have an under-cover of around 2% and are considered to be quite normal. We received a number of reports after the countdown that 'I have not been counted'. Here is the distribution of these messages throughout Estonia. It is not the case that there have been much more or less of them in some regions, rather there are people like that everywhere. Of course, not everyone who did not count made themselves known. Basically, we can also appreciate how many people were left uncounted. That's why we can use the registers. We now have well-functioning registers and it is clear that most of the permanent residents of Estonia are included in the registers. Here you can see how people of different ages are more or less undercounted, but these people may have already left Estonia very well. In order to determine who of those people who did not count, who actually live in Estonia and who have left them, we can use the registers. Those who are in the registers are likely to exist in Estonia; this is a 'undercover'. People who are not in the registers are likely to have left Estonia. And our estimate is that we're also dealing with an undercover count of about 2%. What did the census show? At first, we have very few census results published. When asked what a surprise is, perhaps the most unexpected result is how unevenly the population has decreased in different counties, although to a certain extent it could be expected. It turned out that the population in Harjumaa has increased by almost a third, in Tallinn it remained more or less the same, in Tartu as well, but everywhere else the population has decreased by 15 to 20%, in some places even more. As for the rest of the data that became clear to us, they actually show more or less the stability of development. The number of native speakers in Estonia has increased by 1%. The new question was about the dialect. Some 15% of people whose native language is Estonian speak Murder language. The division of the nation is quite similar to that of the past. The number of Estonians has decreased, but the share has increased again by about 1%. One positive indicator is that the number of people with undefined citizenship has decreased by almost half. Most of them have acquired Estonian citizenship, but there are also those who have acquired Russian citizenship. So what's the most important thing? The population has decreased and the population has grown old. But this trend was, in fact, already before and there has been no major change here. But that's what I think we all have to think about seriously. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U8	Good waitress, thank you very much. You have questions too. Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U9	Thank you very much. Dear Professor Ene-Margit Tiit, thank you very much for your presentation. I've already listened to it once, but I still found it interesting. But I have a question. I know how difficult it is to conduct all kinds of surveys, data processing, etc., in order to get more or less true or close to the truth. Lately, it has become a great deal like doing a lot of surveys everywhere on online media. They are even called Gaulups and, most interestingly, very often they try to convince the public that things are really as the results of these polls show. As a professional, can you tell me how much you believe in such interviews? Maybe your facility shouldn't exist anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U10	Indeed, in order to carry out a proper survey, the population or population whose opinions are sought must first be determined. Secondly, a sample must be made of it on the basis of proper rules, simply by saying random or somehow chosen by strata. In this case, indeed, the result obtained is characterised by the population as a whole, for example, the population as a whole. It is certainly not possible to achieve the representation of the whole population, or of a fixed group, with people who are online on a voluntary basis. As a result, the results, where there is even the possibility that some people will repeatedly express their opinions, which should never happen in any of the studies, are certainly not reliable. It seems to me that they deepen the attitude that statistics are something that is wrong. Actually, it's not statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U11	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U12	Dear Professor Ene-Margit Tiit! I'd like to hear from you a little bit more about the pendulum migration. You mentioned that these people were counted among the residents of Estonia. Statistics Estonia has said that the exact number of people who actually do not work in Estonia and have left here perhaps only their children will be revealed by the end of the year. But knowing your long-standing experience and the exact forecast so far, I would like to ask: can you tell me how many people in Estonia may be working outside Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U13	In fact, I must not say any figure that has not been officially published by the Statistical Office. The principle of statistical independence is behind this. I can't tell you any numbers other people can't see. So, unfortunately, I cannot answer that question. But we really did ask for people's jobs. We will soon be able to tell clearly how many of the main jobs are outside Estonia. This information is really coming, and it will be released on December 17th, as far as I know. So I'm really sorry, but let's wait until then.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U14	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U15	Thank you, Professor, for a very constructive and concrete presentation. I would also like to thank you, with a loud voice, in front of this great auditorium, for the reviews and analyses that you helped me with when I had to fulfil the duties of the Minister of Population. Your performances have always been very precise, very correct and, in any case, completely politically inclined, which is the basis for our action when it comes to leadership. But here's my question. Migration statistics are obviously still a problem, and it is not quite clear. While natural ivet-related birth-deaths are almost one hundred percent in our demographic picture, migration is likely to be very difficult to observe. What opportunities could there be to make this statistics more reliable?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U16	It is right, of course, that birth-deaths are recorded very accurately. We have registration data on migration, which unfortunately are not covering. Now for the other possibilities. That is precisely why we asked an additional question in the census and asked each household whether the close relatives of this household had left the country in the last 12 years. This is quite important additional information that we can use. We can determine how much of these people have officially left according to the population register, how much has left unregistered. These people can be identified, and that gives us quite a bit of additional information. Further information can, of course, be obtained in cooperation with other countries, as all European countries have measured immigration. Immigration is, as we know, easy to measure on the census. People exist in this country, you can ask them that. By putting together information from other European countries, basically from all other countries of the world, we can get a picture. The only accident is that there are so few Estonians that in most countries the share of Estonians among immigrants is so small that it may not even be produced separately. But in any case, I believe that these two sources, first, our own poll and, second, our cooperation with other countries after the census, will give us a much clearer picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U17	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U18	Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very good presentation. I ask you, as a population scientist, what, according to population scientists, politicians or political decisions play in the wider population process. Why, for example, in France, is the natural age and birth rates at the level of reproduction, but not in some other countries? Does political decisions have a role to play in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U19	I'm sure it is. Family policy decisions increase people's sense of security, the knowledge that the state cares about them. I'm sure it'll help you. In France, for example, family policy has been very consistent. The rule of thumb is that family policy must develop further in the direction of increasing and deepening measures. Putting an end to whatever benefits will inevitably be quite a setback.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U20	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U21	Thank you very much for your very good presentation. I have a technical question. I noticed that one point of the slide contained the possibility of fooling around. Indeed, we had a great challenge this time to carry out a census in the Internet world and you had developed serious filters for this purpose. Can you tell me how much of this fooling was going on at the poll? Did you get an indication of the reliability of the Internet world?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U22	In fact, it was extremely little. Like I said, we had controls on us that wouldn't allow us to record, for example, that a son was older than a father and stuff like that. The only option in which free text could be played was to describe the activities and to indicate your profession. I thought our encoders said we had seven presidents written down, but most of them were presidents of some kind. There was no such thing as a mass, it was a case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U23	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U24	Thank you very much for a very nice and very precise presentation. It's rare to see a time limit being followed in a second in this hall, isn't it? My question to you, however, is as follows. You indicated that consistency in family policy was extremely important. In the economic difficult times of recent years, budgetary cuts have been made in all sectors in Estonia. It has been tried to save children, but it has not always succeeded. What do you think, can it be said that the moral message or image given by the cut in this area is more important than the size of the financial cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U25	Yes, it is. The role of services is extremely important in family policy, and it is this part that we have become somewhat weaker. But, of course, when cutbacks were made everywhere, it was also felt in the birth rate. This was quite adequately reflected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U26	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U27	Thank you very much. I will continue on the same subject. Indeed, if we look at the figures, the number of births has fallen sharply since 2008, while the number of births of the second and third children has remained more or less the same. The impression is that if there is one child in the family, the parents will no longer be so afraid to have a new child. But what do you think they fear before the birth of their first child? How do you explain the fall of the number of firstborns so sudden?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U28	It is not easy to answer that question. This would require some research, as has been done in Estonia before. The emphasis would be on the questions 'What would you consider necessary to have a child? ', 'What are your fears about this? 'and so on. It is quite difficult to answer that question now. Of course, not giving birth to the first child may also mean that having a child is simply postponed, just as it was after regaining independence. The tendency to delay the births still works for us. Many women may not have given up giving birth, but may have waited for better times.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U29	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U30	Very honorable speaker, thank you very much for your presentation and thank you very much for your hard work on the census. My question also concerns the primary births. The statistics in question are very, very worrying. If the first children aren't born, then there aren't any other children or third ones. As a highly experienced specialist, what advice would you give to the government that the Estonian state could take to encourage families to have the first child so that they feel the support of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U31	The list of possible family policy measures is very long. One quite successful step that the Estonian state has taken is parental benefit. This was indeed followed by an increase in the number of children, which could also be assessed by statistical measures. It seems that the effect of this measure has been weakened today. Obviously, new measures are needed. In particular, these could be steps to show that the state helps to organise childcare and supports the provision of school meals and school attendance opportunities. In short, all services related to children should be developed. It is precisely their importance that is undeniably very important. What's the best thing to do, no one's ever figured it out. The important message is that the state cares about children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U32	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U33	Dear Professor Tiit! Forecasting is an ungrateful job, but I ask you, as a population scientist, to predict how large the population could be in Estonia in 20 years' time. Can this be predicted? I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U34	It can be done. Population projections are made by the staff of both the UN and our own Statistical Office. Population projections are fully available on the website of Statistics Estonia. I'm not going to open it right now to read it to you. When I say very rudely, our population is shrinking by about 3,000 people each year, according to current trends. It is not very difficult to say that in 2020, in eight years' time, Estonia's population will be 25,000 fewer. But this is, of course, a very rude prediction. Further estimates can be found on the website of Statistics Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U35	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U36	Thank you, Madam Professor, for an interesting presentation. I was fascinated by a slide entitled 'Number of permanent residents counted'. Here is the information we have known for months: that the number of permanent residents of Estonia has fallen by more than 75,000. And that 75,000 contains three factors. One is a decline due to negative natural growth of 30,000, the other a registered emigration of 22000 and then the third "probably the balance of unregistered emigration is in the same order of magnitude'. My question: is it possible to remove the word 'probably' from this third formulation after 17 December and get a picture of whether it is an unregistered emigration or whether there are other factors hidden in this number?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U37	It also hides people who have not counted, and precisely the number of people who have not counted, this percentage we intend to publish on 17 December. More information on unregistered emigration will be available later. Like I said, it's pretty hard to appreciate. This picture is not entirely what we get in the poll, because far from being left by all the people who gave us information. If the calculations are to be made in very detailed detail, we must take into account to some extent certain inaccuracies that have occurred during the previous census. All of this is complicated accounting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U38	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U39	Mr Professor, first of all, thank you for your presentation, but also, of course, for your big, big work on the census and the processing of these data! My question is that every time I look back at the big job, there's something I'd like to do differently next time, or some problem I'd like to avoid next time. Do you have anything specific to mention?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U40	One failure that became clear to everyone was that we dared not predict that we would have so many people counting themselves online. We were quite modest, and we ripped it off to 25%. As for what is going on next time, we are working hard enough to prevent us from interviewing people again next time so that we can make a census on a register basis. This is an optimistic expectation, somewhat hoped for after the previous census. Right now, however, the work has started quite quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U41	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U42	A very honored waitress! It seems to me that the most important thing to increase the birth rate is to give young families confidence in the future. In the intervening years, when the economy was failing, this confidence was fluctuating. It makes sense to me. However, parental benefit has undoubtedly increased this confidence. You are saying that further measures should now be found to further increase confidence, including services such as childcare. But tell me, please: those things that are good in our family policy, should we keep them? How do the confidence of young families be affected by political attacks on well-functioning things, such as parental benefits, which we also experience very often in this Chamber, unfortunately?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U43	That's a very difficult question. As a non-politicalist, a statistician completely independent of politics, I think that all measures are good, whatever political group or party proposes them. All measures are good if they work. I am not very convinced that political attacks or discussions between politicians are very much affecting young families. Indeed, it is a question of its own when a notice appears in the media: this measure is called into question, the measure being deleted. Then, indeed, there is something wrong with the continuity of family policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U44	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U45	Dear Professor, I found it sympathetic that the census also had a question of regional languages. It gave a pretty good overview of how many languages we know about Võro and Setu and even smaller languages. My question is forward-looking. Recently, there was a study where Estonian was classified as an endangered language. Based on the census data, how many centuries do you think the Estonian language will last?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U46	Prediction is hard work, and predicting centuries away is especially hard work. What these linguists said about the danger of the Estonian language was not a very serious alarm clock. Many European languages are equally threatened, and hopefully they will survive for centuries. The great advantage of Estonian is that Estonian language technology is being developed very intensively. Good results have been achieved in this area and work continues in this area. Today, it is said that the languages for which the technological side has developed, which are also computer languages, are preserved. Today's Estonian is a wide-spread language; it is also a language of science and of all walks of life. Even 25 years ago, the support area of Estonian was much smaller. There were a number of areas of life where Estonian was not used. It's used everywhere these days. So I'm pretty optimistic about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U47	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U48	Dear waitress, At the end of your speech you said that Estonia's population fell, the average age went up. It's all about people who live in our country. But the census also grabbed the second large block of questions relating to housing. Please say a couple of sentences that have changed over the past ten years in the residential landscape.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U49	Unfortunately, I have to say that we have not published any information on this. So, unfortunately, I can't say anything about that. The fact that a certain number of people, once again, have a specific number, I do not say a different place of residence in addition to their basic place of residence, is true, and that is why we asked for this other place of residence. Apparently, living conditions have improved for a lot of people, but I'm not gonna give you the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U50	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U51	Dear waitress, My question relates to the issue of emigration from Estonia to other countries. In recent years, many Estonians have gone to work in Finland. As we know, in 1954 a common Nordic labour market was established and after that, nearly three quarters of a million people went from Finland to Sweden and other countries for a few decades. How would you describe these processes of population emigration and immigration more generally? At one time, Finns began to return to their homeland. What can we expect?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U52	We have also consistently had immigration alongside emigration. By the way, it is very interesting that in recent years the immigration of children under the age of 2 has been even slightly higher than emigration. So many families will probably return to Estonia before the children go to school. We've had this kind of back and forth migration all along. In good years, the return migration was quite similar to that of departure. In recent years, departure has been more massive, but it is not such a radical tendency as to cause problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U53	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U54	Mrs Tiit, I, too, would like to thank you indeed for a very good presentation and very substantive answers. But I come back to what has just been said, namely the exodus of children, or young families. We have been quite concerned about our birth rates in recent years, because the crisis has obviously affected families' decisions to get their first or next child. Looking at our school statistics, it is also a concern that school-age children leave Estonia with their family. Going away permanently. Do your statistics also show the trend that is currently reflected in the EHIS?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U55	Yes, of course we have very close cooperation with the EHIS and it is known that a certain number of children leave with their parents. However, we cannot yet say that they have left permanently. They've left for a while, but it's quite possible that they'll come back sometime. I would not strike out anyone who has left Estonia for economic or other reasons. It is quite clear that a number of them will return even if they do not plan it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U56	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U57	Dear waitress, The census had one question regarding the level of education of people. What conclusions can be drawn from this point of view, and do you also have any concrete proposals for Parliament in this regard on how to improve the situation in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U58	We will talk about education next spring. These data will be published in March next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U59	Thank you very much, Professor Ene-Margit Tiit, for your presentation and also for your answers. I would now like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, NGO Noor Estonia leader Andrei Hvostovi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Welcome also to the balcony where, I understand, a high school class is holding a social education class. First of all, I'm probably gonna have to explain why I'm even here. On September 20th, when Tarmo Jyristo came here to talk about NGOs, a question arose in the Chamber about who he was and why he was standing before you. That verbogram was really fun to read. So that nothing like this happens to me, I'm defining myself right now. I'm not standing here as a journalist, I'm not here as a writer, I'm here as a board member of a non-profit organization. This non-profit association is Noor Estonia. I also want to define, in front of you here, my attitude towards you. We have recently observed such a completely wrong and sad tendency, in my opinion, that the designation 'professional politician' has become somewhat derogatory, such a pejorative. I absolutely don't share that attitude. Just as there are specialists in every field, be it health care or education, so there are specialists in politics. I'm treating you as political specialists right now. As I stand here, I admit that I am not a specialist in this field. I'm such an interested observer, an observer, but not a specialist. But now to today's subject. Professor Tiit has already informed us of the state of affairs, and since we understand the numbers, we also understand what has been reported to us. From this point on, we can immediately go on with questions about how to improve the situation and what is this tiring factor that will prevent us from conducting a constructive family policy. I received a possible answer to this question right here in the premises of the Riigikogu, though in another hall. The conference hall held a round table on 8 June discussing the results of the census. I was there, not as a journalist, but as a representative of my NGO. At that meeting, I received a very big surprise and rather a positive surprise. Margus Tsahkna, who is known to be the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and a member of the IRL, made a statement there with a certain political confession. It's all there on YouTube, you can check that Tsahkna has really said it. He admitted that as an electoral campaigner he has always looked at the size of the electoral groups or how promising they are, and that, as a cynical politician, he has always looked at himself for whom it is worth trying. His conclusion was that, in general, it is worth the effort to gain sympathy for this part of the population, who, say so delicately, is no longer a fertile age. So this is the older segment of the population. That's it. Recently, when I had initiated a small discussion on the issue of giving children the right to vote in the Daniel Raspberry blog 'Memocrat', Liisa Pakosta also came out with confession. Since it's black in white there, I'm just going to read it to you right now. So, Liisa said: 'You can work for children today, but you can't get votes in the elections, because there are just so few voting rights in this sector and so you won't be elected. So you have to make a choice in politics, whether you work with questions about masses and get a mass vote or a glimpse of the situation of children for a moment, but it will be your last job in the council. ' Now what I want to say to you is that it would be perfectly natural for members of the other groups to take such an attitude that what the IRL is talking about is the IRL's concern, and it absolutely does not concern others. I exhort you not to take such a protective attitude, for real life shows that you are all sinners. When the financial crisis struck us in 2008, and its scope became clear, the budget was adjusted towards lower figures. Crocodiles were called, who first began to break the weakest. What were the first steps back then? Abolition of coasting allowance, withdrawal of income tax exemption from the first child, suspension of growth in family benefits. You can agree among yourselves on the great merit that one party or another has in all of this. I would argue here that the Centre Party and the Social Democrats also have no reason to confront themselves here, that we have behaved differently. At the level of the city of Tallinn, you did exactly the same. But it is one third of Estonia, an economic 70% of Estonia. By breaking the weaker side of this society, you refrained from touching pensioners at the same time. What's the reason? We have 404000 pensioners, or a third of the population. The number of beneficiaries of child benefit is 260000, with half of them being single-parent families, i.e. mostly single mothers. Using a simple mathematical approach, we realise that the attractiveness of families with young children in the electoral struggle is much less than the attractiveness of honorable seniors. I have no doubt that, as politicians, you are very disturbed by the demographic processes in Estonia and you would certainly like to help young families. But when you think realisticly, as politicians, you realize that you have to make an effort to gain the support of other groups of the population. What are the consequences of such a pragmatic policy on population regeneration? Professor Tiit has just stressed that family policy is effective only if it is consistent. There has been no continuity. In 2009, any consistent family policy was interrupted. The young families were given a signal on the basis of which they might conclude that, next time some kind of financial cataclysm is coming, and probably it will be, we will see what is happening in the European Union, then again they will be the first to be thrown overboard. There is no guarantee that this will not happen. In the year of these big cuts, it was said that the withdrawal of income tax exemption for such pudgy pillows as gravy grants and the first child does not prevent the child from giving birth. In my opinion, such claims are simply a direct lie. It is likely that this autumn will be such a wonderful and wonderful thing that you politicians will have to show you one big job win, namely a three-fold increase in child support. But when I return to the point of the preceding paragraph, could it inspire young people to have children? You can increase the child benefit even ten times, but there is no guarantee that it will survive even when very, very difficult times come. Since there is no guarantee, this measure does not actually work. Now let's get to the bottom of it. How can we do this to help political parties, help the government to conduct a policy that promotes the age of the Estonian people? MTÜ Noor Eesti was convened around the same time that the crocodiles started operating. The aim of this NGO is to promote the idea that children should be given the right to vote from the moment they were born. This right to vote would be exercised by the parent of a specific child until the child becomes an adult and starts to choose for himself or herself. It is perfectly understandable what is the point of such a proposal. At the same time, from the moment Young Estonia came up with this idea, I have well imagined what every possible criticism will come of this idea. For example, we have been accused of whether the authors of this proposal really imagine that such an additional vote in elections will be so inspiring to young people that they will make children for it. Absolutely not! I do not think so, and Noor Estonia does not think that we are not such primitiveists. The aim is to make the population of childbearing age - people with small children who might still want to have children - attractive to politicians. That's the point, that's the point. Now I've explained this idea, and I think I should start pulling the strings together. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that if the critics consider this proposal to be ridiculous, unrealistic, aferistic, all the more so. I would use the same technique used by leading politicians if some of their ideas were to be criticised. They're asking: what is your proposal? So what's the alternative? If what Noor Estonia may offer is absurd to give children the right to vote, then this statement should not be limited. I'd like to hear what alternative options are. Please, let's not talk about some kind of social pact institution again. Shall we call Aadu Luke back from that side? Let us not talk about the creation of any special committee or about the fact that members of the Riigikogu undertake to write a column every week in county newspapers and national newspapers about how we all love children and that children are our future. All of this has already been done and, nevertheless, we are now in the situation where we are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U61	No, I'm not afraid to be used. On the contrary, I very much hope that I will be exploited in the pre-election fight, used to get the right and the necessary ideas out. Now, from the reasoning that could have happened if we had implemented a reform 20 years ago, so that the elections could vote for our children. Would we then meet the Maastricht criteria and everything else? Oh, it's all going to be very hypothetical. I know one person who is currently sitting among you, who is said to be opposed to this idea for the reason that, if such a reform is carried out, all of Estonia's politics will turn left. But as his right-wing politician in general, I wouldn't want that kind of thing. It's cold war years rhetoric better dead than red! What can I say about that? I do not know whether right-wingism must necessarily be linked to such a fierce market economy. Historian Jaak White, who is probably treated either way, but who has a double degree, he has not only studied history but also human geography at university, so that he is competent to speak out on both population and economic issues, has recently promoted, as I have understood, even the concept of 'left ethnicity'. Nationalism doesn't necessarily have to be on the right, it can also be on the left. I don't know if I'm going to answer this question at length and thoroughly, it's all bound to be in the area of philosophy. I've written somewhere, probably it was in the Estonian Express this summer, that the acquisition of a child would harm a person in our market economy fight. In market-economy competition, the child is negative. The less children one family or another has, the more effective it is in a market economy. It's better if there's no kids at all. And here is a huge contradiction in the political philosophy of our country. What does the country want? Is there a market style that puts everything in place, and would it be like having children? But these things are incompatible! This thing isn't working! I've seen it in my dealings with young women. When you compare our great market economy progress with a certain fight against the breasts, I am a man and a reserve officer, so I occasionally use military terms and reasonings, every young woman of childbearing age is seen as a possible deserter. It is known that there have been strange attempts in private companies to impose on young women almost a signature obligation that they do not get pregnant during a certain period of time, do not have a child. It's a reality. This is what must be done in the light of the market economy logic. If we get into society with another little kid, that little kid won't bring us anything. He doesn't work, he doesn't pay taxes, he just wants something. He wants care, all kinds of resources, clean exit from the finance minister's point of view, a clean item of expenditure. Every child of God simply undermines our market economy efficiency. I'm afraid that's the way it is. I could talk about it for a really long time, but I'm going to put a stop here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U62	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U63	Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation as a mother of two children and for this interesting point. I think there's something to think about and discuss. I have a little question from another area. In your speech, you said that the Centre Party in Tallinn has taken the same austerity measures as the coalition at national level. Could you give more details about what the city of Tallinn has lost in these last few years? What kind of benefits have been lost to the school grant, the birth grant or, for example, the care package for the newborn child? Or has there been a cut in the field of hobby education? Name the specific cuts that the city of Tallinn has made in recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U64	As far as I know, the so-called bounty has fluctuated here and there for kindergarten children throughout the years in Tallinn. For example, in 2006 I happen to have figures ahead of me because I knew that a question like this might come from the Centre Party, and the bounty per child in its current currency was EUR 1563, while in 2012 it was EUR 1578. During the period 2006-2012, these amounts have been very different. The most wonderful year was 2009, then the bounty was EUR 2034, but there has been a constant decline since then. We are currently in the same position as in 2006 for the bounty payment indicator. I'm not a specialist in this field, I'm not a kindergartener, I'm not a teacher at a pre-school institution, but that's how much I know that a reduction in the bounty is causing very serious problems. We're talking about kindergartens, and that's exactly the problem we're talking about here today. I'm sorry, but you're sinners! Of course, you can also talk about investments, but these are some other figures. That's all I'd like to do right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U65	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U66	Good waitress! I don't want to get into this controversy. We can discuss this later somewhere around the corner who's saved up on the kids. But now I've opened the computer and made sure there's news up there that the bailiff in the municipality of Anija was auctioning a farm with a family of eight children. By 1 November at the latest, they must move out, somewhere in the open under the sky. There's a long story about how it all started and how it ended. Suppose this legislative amendment you proposed would have worked for us for years. If so, would Estonia have been able to meet the Maastricht criteria so well? Can we be the European Union's fad? Can we beat the drum that we're following all the rules here, that we have budgetary discipline and whatever? Why am I asking that? Because it's a very interesting change of direction if yesterday's crocodile wants to give children the right to vote today. That's when he cut it, isn't it time for a change? Aren't you afraid you'll be used in the pre-election fight?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U67	Honourable questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U68	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U69	I am trying to ask a question that is not very political. I would like you to respond now, not as a representative of the NGO, but as a journalist of the Estonian Express. I will send the journalist of the Estonian Express back to the time after the Northern War and after the plague. Küllo Arjakas, a historian I know, has said that Estonian people were then left with 100,000 to 200,000. What would Andrei Hvostov write in the Estonian Express, what scary images would he see? Are these people even able to survive with so little of him? What do I mean by that? I would like to say that very many other factors are also playing their part, apart from giving children the right to vote or increasing some material benefits at all times.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U70	First of all, what would I write? Maybe I'll write about it. Recently, I heard a funny story from a history teacher who spoke about eighth grade children and their test results. It was about the demographic situation in Estonia after the Northern War. I was taught at the university that at the time, after all this catastrophic population decline, when it was really a question of whether the Estonian people would survive, these losses were largely compensated for by people who were invited or brought to Estonia from Finland and Latvia. If I'm not mistaken, even the Dutch people came here. This has also been taught to children today, and the task of the test was to name those factors that helped prevent the extinction of the Estonian people. An eighth grader said he helped peasants have sex. But the extinction of the people is interestingly still very topical. Discussions are under way on how to climb out of the demographic hole: whether to invite people from elsewhere, this time not from Finland or Latvia, because there are not too many people, but somewhere further away, or bet on peasants' sex. It is understandable that if you contribute to this latter and do something about it right now, the first results will arrive in ten or even 15 to 20 years' time. I don't know, that's what Professor Taid should ask. This would be the first measure to produce any kind of result. Now the other side of the answer. Since I'm here now not only as a representative of an NGO, but from time to time, when it's a good time, I also remind you that I'm also a writer. I have publicly declared this that, as an Estonian writer, I will not forget for a moment that I will write in the dying language of the dying people. That's my pain. At the same time, I've learned history as a human being, but it's good to switch roles like this! In this sense, optimistic that I know what a huge role has been played in the formation of the Estonian people, even in the formation of our face, that we are as we are, a minority that has already disappeared into the past, such as the Baltic Germans. We have taken over their cultural heritage, we are their heirs. In that sense, I'm optimistic. Even if we fail to keep our national bodies, it is clear that there will be no empty earth, no one will come. But at least our cultural figures should make an effort to create such a culture, a sufficiently thick layer of culture that goes on for them, I don't know what languages and what faith people will ever come here. Maybe they'll take over. This is the great palace or, let's say, the spiritual lifeline or the straw of a person who exercises himself in my culture. From my point of view, things are not hopeless. But it's again more of a cultural-historic-philosophic issue. I'm not adding anything else right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U71	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U72	Thank you. Good waitress! I wanted to ask Andrei Hvostov, and I did, but I ask you, Margus, what do you think is the strongest counter argument here? We've read all sorts of arguments against this idea, but what do you think is the most competent counter argument? What can be done for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U73	First of all, we must dare ourselves to acknowledge the processes taking place in society and we must calmly understand what we should do. If we all think for a moment, regardless of our political affiliation and the outlook for which this change should be made, there are no arguments against it. The problem arises, rather, in finding a legal solution, so that it can also be implemented as easily as possible. When a debate has arisen in society and society tends to be prepared for this fundamental change, a competent and simple solution needs to be developed. The issues relating to the right to vote must be unambiguously and simply enshrined in the law, so that there will not be too many disputes here. This is an important place. But there are certainly qualified scientists in Estonia, and also at international level, who are thinking along these lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U74	Thank you. Please, Andres Jalak!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U75	Thank you. Good waitress! What do you think about lowering your election age to 16? Could this be the first step in the implementation of Andrei Hvostov's idea, or is it an element of this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U76	Thank you, good questioner! By the way, a good colleague, Helmen Kütt, brought out such a counter argument at a meeting with his German colleagues: how can an older child be judged for when, for example, the child is 17 years old and fully aware of what is happening in society and has developed an opinion? In my opinion, the reduction in the voting time is the same path as this proposal, which is one that complements the other. Indeed, rather, the proposal makes it almost self-evident for children to have the right to vote, in the sense that they should go together. I think a pretty large part of this hall could reach a consensus here. These things must not be contradicted by the fact that one proposal is good and the other is bad. Actually, they're going exactly in the same direction. It is simply its effect, when we give the right to vote from birth, that society is many times greater than it is when we lower the rightful age to, for example, 16 years of age, which affects a few thousand people. But from the moment of birth, the right to vote affects over 250,000 people, which brings about a change in all political thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U77	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U78	Thank you. Several options and the impact of these measures have been discussed today. My colleague, Kalle Laane, pointed out that, in his opinion, ivet could be raised to childlessness. I don't know how the tax increases the ivet. But what could be the more general impact of this possibility of giving all citizens the right to vote from the moment of birth? What do you think? To this, I ask: is there a danger that it will create opposition? Could an elderly citizen, for example, be upset? It has been said here today that children and young families should be given a greater say.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U79	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U80	Thank you. This is a fundamental change from the moment a citizen makes his or her decision on the design of the next four-year period of his or her own country. The effect is that more than 250,000 votes will be added. Our number of voters is less than one million, more than 60% of them are elected. In fact, the fundamental pressure of society on political forces has an impact. All existing, future and leaving political forces must take this impact into account, as this impact is significant. Secondly, it requires a change in the constitution, which means that it is almost impossible to redefine it again. This guarantees that this effect will not be such as one-off political action or some election promise to tenfold child support, etc., but will have a continuous and long-term impact. If we decide to do so, the Estonian people will make a fundamental decision, which will last until there is some very decisive force that wishes to change it. But I don't believe that anymore. When it comes to confronting different age groups, I have already said in my speech that there is no reason for fear. It is precisely because we would rather balance age groups with one another. The other side is perhaps more emotional: older people and grandparents often care more about the welfare of grandchildren than parents who are busy with everyday work. Therefore, I do not see the possibility of an emotional confrontation here. If this issue is to be opened calmly and debated in society, common sense says that this proposal has content.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U81	Dear waitress, As an optimist, I like very much that if there is a problem, which is certainly a small birth rate, then different solutions are offered. If there is a problem, but no solutions are sought, then there is no doubt that there is no good skin to be expected. I like every thought worth discussing, plus and minus add up. However, I would like to make one clarification about your words that children's allowances were reduced and that this area was cut. Believe me, this has not increased the number of pensioners. Funeral allowance was also cut, but no one leaves immortal because there is no funeral allowance. It's just demographic processes. And now that child benefit is being increased, the number of older people is still increasing. The question is this: how should the voter act when he has three children? I would choose the Reform Party, for example, one of my children says he prefers the Centre Party, the other the Reform Party and the third the Social Democrats. How does that father or mother who goes to the booth vote? What would you do?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U82	A very legitimate question! We're talking about family domestic peace. The danger here is not only that parents have a fight with their children, but parents can also have a very big fight among themselves. But that's the way it is! I want to remind all of you, as parents, that in most cases you are parents, like me, that, as parents, we are, to a very large extent, assigning the lives of our children. Since what time the baby goes to sleep, how much he gets pocket money, plus such an extremely important decision for the child like that which school he goes to. If a parent exercises his right to choose for a child, it is no greater abuse of the rights of the child or violence than what we do every day in the position of power of our parent. Another thing is that children cannot be approached by a single standard that all children under the age of 18 are children. If a child is at least 16 years old, he must have some kind of preference. This is where we come to the proposal that we should lower the elections that the Reform Party has spoken about and which have already been realised in Austria. Why can't children be chosen from the age of 16? Why not lower the election to the age of 16? This certainly needs to be done precisely to open the teenage rage valve. I don't think they're gonna rush into exercising that right. Austrian experience shows that young people of 16 years of age generally do not want to choose. This is also understandable, because the menu of the parties offered has no choice between 16-year-old anarchists. But that right, in principle, could still be. Now, with my answer, you gave an example of a situation where a father or mother wants to choose one party, but children may have some other preferences. However, I see in our proposal, perhaps a bit idealistic, the possibility of getting rid of this curse, which is called the alienation of politics to the people. Parents need to start explaining to their children at home, and I believe that proper parents sometimes explain to their children what they do with their own things. As parents, we know that children are well - consistent in their study. If a child knows that he or she has the right to vote and his or her parents use it, perhaps the child is very interested in being given an account of who is being voted for. Even these parents, the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, who sometimes declare that they are not interested in politics, they are apolitical, they cannot go to children with this kind of talk anymore. I am now becoming a man and I assure you that children generally like to think that a father is the smartest person in the world, and fathers and, of course, mothers must begin to justify the hopes of children. I have a family (if this innovation goes through) where my parents really start reading party programs and suggestions, even so as not to be embarrassed in front of my children when they start asking, "But what do you do with the voice that belongs to me? Why do you make that choice, not a different one? ' I believe that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U83	Tõnis Lukas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U84	Good speaker! Gerontocratia is the power of tribal elders, and generally, it can be positive when older people who are experienced in life direct the fate of the tribe. In that case, however, it is about directing the fate of many children. For example, young families in Finland are currently leaving their father and mother in Estonia without grandchildren, and it can be dangerous for society in terms of growth. But now to today's subject. As one of many, I have promoted the same idea, and I have been asked the same questions as the previous speaker asked. What do you say, then, how do you share the voices of your parents for three children, for example, if they don't come to an agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U85	Yeah, that's the biggest pack. I myself have an answer, but probably a lot of people don't like it. I'd give the mother the right to represent the children. For the simple reason that children are a little more mother than father's. Its simple anatomical proof or symbol is the umbilical scar that we all have in the middle of our stomach, which has never connected us to our mother, not to our father. Let's look at the current Estonian family model, if you can even call it a family model, the number of single parents is increasing. It's just a ruthless fact that these single parents tend to be women. Women are already taking on more responsibility when they decide to give birth to a child. Especially for the second and third children, this is more or less just a woman's decision; men have very little to say about it. Women and non-elderly mesopolitans, whose children grew up in Soviet times and who absolutely do not know what it means to raise a child in a market economy, have a huge role to play in climbing out of our airfall. But for some reason, from time to time, they take a good stand and even look at younger women as to why they do not do their duty. For some reason, yes, as soon as we talk about naughtyness, we immediately look at women of childbearing age: why aren't you giving birth? If such a question is justified if it is justified, then, therefore, in order for women to be able to fulfil this role, certain preconditions must be created. If the mother of the child is the one who chooses for her children, or gives the politicians the order that she, as a mother and a woman, expects from them, for example, that please start coming up with some programs that are suitable for me, then it would probably be much more effective than starting to invent other systems here. There have been all kinds of suggestions, for example, that if there's one child, we're gonna give Dad half a vote, and we're gonna give Mom half a vote, or, I don't know, we're gonna calculate some coefficients in the family. It's really messing up the system, and it's gonna get messy. Such proposals simply seek to effectively torpedo the idea of giving children the right to vote. I'd rather give that right to mothers, women. There's an interesting side effect here. Recently, there has been talk about the introduction of gender quotas and the question of why there are fewer female members in the Riigikogu than there are men. If women were given the right to represent children in carrying out such a reform, then after that the Riigikogu can only consist of 100% of men. Then it wouldn't matter who's in charge of politics. It's about who's calling the policy. The 101 men sitting here began to listen very carefully to the wishes of Estonian women. They should be very thoughtful of making proposals for voters, drawing up programmes. All of this would shift family policy in the right direction, and it does not require 101 women to sit in the Riigikogu. This can produce good results in a bi-political way, but it may not. Because the 101 people sitting here would remember well that we have 404000 pensioners and just 260000 people who are paid child benefit and who are supposed to be the parents of young children. That is the logic of political life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U86	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U87	Good waitress, first of all, thank you very much for your substantive answers. You were talking about the parents' influence on the children. I have three children between 20 and 30 years of age. I've given them a very clear signal that I'm ready for Grandpa's role. Unfortunately, this effect has been relatively small, I have not become a grandfather. The basic argument that children say: we feel uncertainty about the future, maybe we can't manage what children we still worry about. How are they gonna make it? This is the basic answer for my children: there is uncertainty in the whole society as to whether they will be able to cope. But this is my particular question. Have you discussed any leverage such as childlessness?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U88	Childlessness? Since I've lived half my life under the conditions of the Soviet system, I even remember what it is. I've paid for it myself. I view this idea, the renaming of this idea in a very negative way, because childlessness tax is punishment. Punishment for people who, for various reasons, have not taken a decision to have a child. You were talking about your children. In fact, they can only be praised because they behave like the right market economy fighters. If we all start making children now, instead of working hard and paying taxes, how will we, in eight years' time, achieve that our GDP per capita is 75% of the European average? So how do we get to the five richest countries? We have to work on that. Children, however, are an obstacle to work. That, of course, was a little ironic right now. But if you come back to child deprivation tax, statistically, as far as I know, about a fifth of people of childbearing age are either biologically or otherwise unable to have children. These people must not be punished under any circumstances. All the more so when it came up with the idea of giving children the right to vote, I heard from a number of critics exactly the argument that people who for some reason cannot have children will be, like, humiliated or punished. God forbid I'm making you feel that way! At the same time, the logic is somewhat misguided that someone may be punished by someone else's getting more. Giving the right to vote to me is not, in my view, any form of rewarding a human being. In fact, it's about putting responsibility on a person. The right to vote is not a bonus. So if parents are thought to be in a terrible position compared to those who are not parents, I don't understand that logic well. Well, I understand, but I think that logic is based on some kind of obscurant thought structure. I began to think deeply about this idea in 2009, i.e. when Noor Estonia came up with it. Some opinion leaders took the floor to comment on this and mostly in a negative key. A well - known sociologist argued that the effect of such a reform is that seniors, pensioners, might as well be deprived of their voting rights. A newspaper editor-in-chief made a similar point, who compared it with the proposal to reduce the voice of pensioners. Taking anything away from nobody is out of the question! It's like another zero-sum game, that if we give parents more voting rights, we're going to take it down like somebody else. That doesn't make any sense! It is known, by the way, such experiences from Berlin. The districts of Berlin are, in our sense, relatively independent municipalities, which also have their own budget. In East Berlin there is a district called Marzahn, where a decision was taken a few years ago to multiply the votes of families with young children by some coefficient when voting on the budget of the district government. The budget thus accounted for parents' votes more than the votes of the childless. As a result of this innovation, the older population of this part of the city has also started to get some new benefits. I don't know exactly what the connection is with it, but it seems to me that there's some logic that if parents get additional voting votes, they don't just throw old people overboard. Rather, they also think carefully about seniors.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U89	Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation and your answers. I ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, said in his speech on the anniversary of the Republic a few years ago that, at a time when our most important outward-looking development goals, such as NATO, the European Union, the OECD and the Eurozone, have been met, we should look inwards, towards the human assets of the Estonian state, towards our own people in view of the future. Over the last 20 years, we have become a fully-fledged member of European society, with a lot of positive results, but at the same time we have to take into account that our survival as a nation still depends only on us. Together with the improvement in quality of life, we are also infected with so-called old European diseases. Our population is ageing, the population of working age is shrinking, and children are born little. If the old European countries are still able to apply the benefits of an abundant social system in comparison with us to alleviate the symptoms of this disease, then we will have to cope with the more scarce opportunities. This requires much smarter and smarter behaviour from us, but above all, it requires the courage to admit that the treatment of the disease is not enough to relieve the symptoms, but it is time to delve into and intervene decisively in the causes of their emergence. The fundamental changes are based on a paradigm shift. This means that changes cannot be superficial, but must start with fundamental changes in the system, such changes as would ensure a significant increase in the share of families with children in the political decision-making process. The results of the 2011 population and housing census have been put on our table. According to preliminary data from the population and housing census, 1294236 persons living permanently in Estonia were counted. Compared to the previous census, which took place ten years ago, the number of permanent residents of Estonia has decreased by 75816, or 5.5%. This is the population of a city almost the size of Tartu. The age structure has also changed in ten years. While in 2000, 18% of the population aged 14 years or less had fallen to 15% in 2011. At the same time, the share of people aged 65 and over had increased to 18%, with 15% in 2000. Our biggest task is to stop the decline in population, turn it up and ensure maximum development of existing people to unlock the potential of our human resources and to harness it to achieve the goal of our country and nation survival. In particular, the birth rate and the family policies affecting it, mortality and health policies affecting it, as well as migration and migration policies affecting it, have an impact on the population. In addition, the birth rate is influenced by a number of other areas and by the combination of many measures, which is why it is not enough to pursue strictly family policy objectives in order to ensure the well-being of families. Families are also affected by tax systems and pension schemes, not to mention health care, education, housing and labour market policies. This is set out in the introduction to the children's and families' development plan, which was adopted as a national development plan last year and is valid until 2020. In the middle, however, families with children, their confidence, and their positive expectations of the future are among them. Unless the above policies are implemented in the interests of families with children, it will not be possible to achieve the greater objective of the sustainable development of the Estonian people. Children's and family policies affect almost every Estonian and are either indirectly or directly related to all aspects of a person's life from birth to death. The contribution to the well-being of children and families will sooner or later be reflected in the health of the population, education, crime indicators, employment and the economy, i.e. in all areas. In a situation where our population is ageing, life expectancy is increasing, but not because of healthy life years, it must be stressed that, in the perspective, the working hands that must maintain the social system of our country as a whole will be reduced. However, there is an increasing number of consumers of social system services and benefits, which is why it is important to create maximum development opportunities for existing human resources and to unlock its potential. Over 45000 children, or one in five, live in absolute poverty in Estonia. In addition to children at risk of poverty, more than 63000 children are affected by poverty. This is clear from the overview 'Poverty and related problems in families with children' prepared by the Chancellor of Justice's Office. This means, however, that children already live in Pärnu city in a situation where their development opportunities are not sufficient and their future potential and competitiveness are significantly limited. But it is for them that we will build the future of our country and our people. That's what I say without any pathos. That is a harsh fact that must not be overlooked. It is also true that most of these children are not children of an antisocial origin, but are children of a single parent or families with three or more children. There is a rule that when a family has two parents and both work, after the birth of the third child, let alone the fourth and more children, they fall below the poverty line. At the same time, the rule is that it is the third child of the family who starts the increase. This fact, or falling below the poverty line, also applies to parents raising children alone, with more and more of these families. Honourable Riigikogu! We don't have to be ashamed in the last 20 years. Our priority has been, above all, to create our own nation state and to ensure its security. We have developed a democratically functioning state with all our institutions, which have been through various difficulties. However, at the moment, not only international organisations are a pledge to our national security, but above all we are ourselves. The quality of our human resources and their survival is a clear priority for the future. The last 20 years have shown that dealing with the consequences is largely unsustainable. Rather, it encourages a build-up of problems and therefore requires increasing investment. The current child and family policies have focused in particular on mitigating the symptoms of problems, while addressing the causes has not been adequately addressed. Another problem is the fickleness of our children's and family policies, the lack of a common vision and long-term consistent policies. We have carried out a number of family policy measures, but their impact has not been complementary, but has often been controversial. One example is the implementation of the parental benefit system, which clearly has a positive effect, as the previous speaker said. At the same time, we must recognise that the vast majority of public resources for children and families go to support births and to support young children during the first year and a half. From there on, the situation is, to put it mildly, incomplete and, most importantly, unstable. Stability in the country's child and family policies is an important factor influencing birth. It must be said that we do not have this stability. If a measure has been taken, abolishing it, no matter how small the impact, will give a very negative signal to those who are deciding on family growth. During the economic crisis, forced cuts also concerned family policy measures. The income tax benefit for the first child and the rennet allowance were cut and the validity of the paternity allowance was suspended. The same type of decision was taken at the local government level. No one's hands are clean here. However, it was decided to increase pensions, and pensions will continue to rise every year. There's no point point pointing a finger at anyone. All the political forces represented in this Chamber have been involved in these processes as decision-makers at different levels. Blaming each other won't help us any further. I, too, was one of those crocodiles who prepared government cuts, I'm not hiding it. It is a pleasure to note that, in economic recovery, we have started to restore family policy measures. The next year, a maternity pension that values raising children will be implemented, a reform of children's benefits will be launched, implementing needs-based first and second child support, and almost doubling child benefit for all children from the third child of the family. In the case of triple births, the allowance is tripled and the paternity allowance becomes applicable again. However, decisions taken in the area of child and family policy due to the economic crisis have given society a message that makes the expectations of people planning children uncertain about the future. Different political forces in power at different times have implemented policies with different impacts. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the generation of older people has been an advantage, since the logic of the political system is that they are the most important part of society. There is a promise to increase pensions in the programmes of all political parties, and if this promise is not fulfilled, this party may reject the idea of participating in the next elections. At the same time, the programmes of all political parties promise to defend the interests of families with children, but their practice varies. I do not complain to our elderly or political parties, but, like in Estonia, it is the oldest part of society in the European countries, who is the biggest lobbyist, who is actively participating in the elections, and thus also shapes preferences in political decision-making. Demographic processes are deepening this trend. Life expectancy is increasing, the birth rate is decreasing, the proportion of older people in society is increasing and younger ones are shrinking. Our electoral system is marked by a situation of force majeure, according to which the political influence of adults and young people is becoming increasingly declining. Although we are talking about solidarity between generations, in the long term, the proportion of the social system's supporters and people who produce basic added value is becoming smaller and the burden on society is increasing. In 2011, over 900000 voters were registered, 63% of whom were elected, or 580000 people. At present, the number of people receiving a pension is 404525, which accounts for almost half of the number of voters. True, not all persons of retirement age are electoral, but the order of magnitude is eloquent. In this situation, we must recognise that the pressure of a group that dominates society dictates political decisions as well. But can we change the demographic processes that are taking place in this way? Is it possible to influence political parties' behaviour in a more child- and family-friendly way by changing the system, so that we can survive? Would the application of the principle of family elections be an opportunity to ensure the survival of our nation? By family elections, I mean giving children the right to vote from the moment they were born in a way that allows parents to exercise the right to vote for the child until the child is of age. There have been no in-depth discussions on this issue in Estonia. However, this issue has been addressed in a variety of ways in Germany. In 2008, 46 members of the Bundestag submitted to the government a proposal to prepare a constitutional amendment according to which citizens will be granted electoral rights from birth. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the right to vote is an Estonian citizen who has reached the age of 18 years. The implementation of family elections means that we must initiate a constitutional change and give voting rights to all Estonian citizens from the moment of birth. Making such a fundamental change requires a broad-based debate among the people. Both the effects and the legal implications of this change need to be analysed. I believe that the amendment to the Constitution must be due to a very justified need. However, demographic developments show that the objective of our national state as enshrined in the Constitution is also being put at risk in the long term, so I consider it justified to amend the Constitution in order to achieve this objective. During the first half of 2012, 259097 children received family allowances. If family elections were implemented, the number of voters would increase by more than 250,000, which would help to balance the proportion of people of different ages. It is clear that parents who exercise the right to vote for underage children, when making electoral decisions, are primarily based on their subjective perceptions, which are usually aimed at looking after the interests of their families and children. Political parties are therefore forced to take the interests of families with children more seriously and in the long term, as elections take place every four years. Today, the political forces are sufficiently professional and the electoral campaign is being carried out with full awareness of the size of the electoral groups, their active participation and their primary interests. If family elections had already been in place during the last economic crisis, more ambitious politicians would have stood up for the interests of children and families alongside the interests of older people. That's my point. It's in the interests of the elderly, not in their place. I ask that these interests do not confront each other. Applying family elections would put politicians, most of whom need to be re-elected in the spinal cord, in a situation where taking into account the interests of families with children becomes a guarantee of their survival. Good fellows! I hope that the idea of family elections will create a debate, both in society and in political forces. However, this debate must not be designed to justify what has already been done and to point the finger at others, but to address the fundamental problem. Before you speak about this principled, paradigm-changing idea, take a deep breath sometime and think about its contents. The essence of the idea is to ensure the sustainability of our people and our country by increasing the political weight of children and families. I hope that consensus on this issue can be achieved through an active debate. Even if it is an idea that shakes the whole of society and is at first glance insane, it is in any case better than any progress without any idea at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U91	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions and answers. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good speaker! I agree with you that the situation is difficult and that it requires some shocking ideas to resolve it. The above-mentioned idea is one of these. At the time, the IRL discussed the possibility of introducing a clause on the balance of the state budget into the Constitution. Then they laughed at the idea. You mentioned yourself that you've been on the Crocodile Commission, but now you've been fighting for child support. Do you think this amendment to the Constitution, to give every person a vote, would in future difficult times help to avoid paying a fee for the continuity of family policy? This consistency was mentioned by you in your speech and was considered important by writer Hvostov and by Ene-Margit Tiit who spoke before him. Do you think that this change will give us the assurance that family policy will become more consistent?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U93	Thank you. Andrei Hvostov has already talked about this. I have quite honestly said this as a politician and a person who has been in preparation for a very large number of elections. I think I know how the Estonian political system works and not only the Estonian system, but also the European and United States system, and how political decisions are made. True, it's becoming more and more professional. When we look at the debates on the Presidential elections in the United States, they know very precisely where the voters are who could tilt the weight on one side or the other. These messages are very clear and the same. If we look at the history of Estonia in the last 20 years, I feel that in the last seven or eight years, the activities of the parties have also become increasingly professional. This is not to blame for the parties. Political parties are increasingly aware of what is happening in society, what are the specific interests and what the interest groups are. We have nothing to blame for ourselves. I don't distance myself from politicians. I'm one of you. Political decisions, especially difficult ones, are being taken very seriously and accurately, what is happening in society and how this affects subsequent processes. It is true that society is ageing, that there is a large group of older people in society. They choose because they care about their country. They may have more to choose from than younger people. Therefore, even in very difficult times, when it has been necessary to cut public expenditure, no party has come up with the idea that the issue of the elderly should be dealt with radically. With a heavy heart, but in the end, the decision to save on family and children's policies has come to an end. As the previous speakers have said, the greatest danger is that child and family policies are unstable, i.e. they give messages that create instability to society and to those people, especially women who have to make decisions about the birth of children. This is particularly dangerous if the birth of the first or second child is not considered, but the birth of the third or fourth child, where population growth actually begins. The amendment to the Constitution, which is later very, very difficult to turn back, would bring to society the part of the voters who are currently away from the elections, that is children. There's over 250,000 of them. This is a very large number and it forces the whole political system (I am not even talking about politicians one by one, but about the whole political system) to take their interests into account consistently. My message is not that we should oppose electoral groups and age groups, but that, in order to ensure our sustainability and the survival of the Estonian people, we should bring children's political power among citizens with the right to vote. This is how we balance processes in society. That's the idea. I think the political forces are simply forced to follow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U94	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U95	Thank you. Let's just say that the economic crisis is just one example. We have made these decisions before, and they have not only been made at national level. It has been said here what has happened in the municipalities, for example in Tallinn. I don't want to start discussing who did what. It doesn't bear fruit. But that's a pretty graphic example. It is precisely the interests of children and families that we need to contribute more and more. There is the potential on which we all live in the future, on which our whole country lives. There are no clearer figures than the census figures and projections that are being made. Demographic forecasts are very clear; they are very, very difficult to change. This requires that we change or actually change the paradigm across society and that we make all persons eligible for voting from the moment of birth. As far as non-citizens and citizens are concerned, the principle of'state-level elections' (we are talking about elections in the Riigikogu in particular) is clear: citizens have the right to vote. It must certainly be extended to the children of all citizens who have the right to vote. This legal debate, I hope, is yet to come. I hope that this fundamental issue will not be trampled into the mud today, but that we will open our minds to this debate. Yana, I'm glad you've already done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U96	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to ask you three things in one minute. You, in turn, try to remember them. First of all, if this system had been in place when you were on the Crocodile Commission, would it have changed your options? Secondly, what do you think will happen to the voices of the stateless children in this model? Thirdly, if we go to the alternative, how do you feel about the proposal, which sounded at a round table, to set a certain percentage of GDP that would go to support families with children, in the same way as has been done for defence expenditure, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good colleague! I really like your passion for family policy. If you have time, you should also tell your colleague, whose administration even discriminates against women returning from parental leave. I have this question: what do you think about whether a young mother returning to the labour market is a less valuable worker than others, so that she should receive less pay within a certain period of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U98	Thank you, good questioner! We have also discussed this issue in the party and asked for clarification on a specific case. This case is actually not as dramatic as it seems from the media. I'm sure you can ask the Minister about it yourself. My opinion is quite the opposite of what real behaviour is on our labour market. I see it in my family and in my friends, who are my age and who have one, two or three children in their family. In fact, there is no more motivated and better employee than the mother who came from a small child, who very clearly wants to carry out herself and contribute to society. Employers' attitudes need to be strongly changed. There are prejudices against mothers returning to work after the birth of a child that do not correspond to reality. This message should be disseminated very seriously. I think that, in a situation of increasing labour shortages, employers too increasingly understand that a young mother is a very worthy worker.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U99	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U100	Would you like to extend the time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U101	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm also talking about fighting a little destructive mentality, but maybe a little in the other key. I actually had a short line that was meant as a question for Andrei Hvostov, but unfortunately he ran out of time to answer. Andrei is an interesting mixture of pessimism and hopeful idealism. On the one hand, he talks about how he writes to a dying people in a dying language, but on the other, he hopes that something can still be done by giving children an extra vote. On this particular issue, however, I find this idealism to be regrettablely pessimistic and cynical in its substance. It is no secret, of course, that political parties everywhere in the democratic world are increasingly moving towards political technology thanks to technological developments, often leaving the real solution to long-term societal problems in the background. I think it would be absolutely wrong to accept that. On the contrary, Estonian scientists, cultural people, journalists and society as a whole should fight with this. If the party allows it to deal with the sustainability of the Estonian people, but when it is in government, it is the money of the family benefit system that will be cut if savings are needed, it is the party that is lying. Then a lie must be identified, and the whole society must categorically condemn it. In the next elections, this party will either not be able to enter the Riigikogu, or at least it will not act like this. When it comes to members of the Riigikogu, I asked Margus Tsahkna, who has unfortunately left the hall, about the concept of a free mandate. My point was very simple. We are independent of specific voters and even electoral groups, according to Estonian law, but in the public interest and according to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, we must ensure that Estonian people do not emigrate or die out. If the members of the Riigikogu, Margus Tsahkna and Liisa-Ly Pakosta, say that they cannot promote the development of sustainable family policy because it does not give them votes in the elections, they will not fulfil their legal obligation as representatives of the people. There is always an opportunity to resign from the Riigikogu. I think that Andrei Hvostov could also take on the role of journalist here and ask how a representative of the people can not stand up for the future of the Estonian state. What I really want to say is that we need to demand more mature democracy, where the public demands sustainable solutions from political parties and politicians and does not allow them to be subjected to short-term populist pressure. In my opinion, new political technology should not be used to cure the success of political technology. But giving children an extra vote is clearly a political technological measure. By this we would admit that Estonian society is not ready for the so-called'real democracy', where voters are able to look a little further than their own. In this context, I find it relatively funny that we have worked very hard to strengthen civil society, to involve civil society organisations more in the legislative process for the last ten years, and partly in our actions. If, in the end, we still think that the solution is that we are using some political technological trick to get more representation somewhere, then it doesn't make any sense. In any case, I believe in democracy and consider political technological solutions to this issue to be very dangerous. As far as pensioners are concerned, I must say that, in general, pensioners are much more concerned about what happens to their children and grandchildren than about how many percent of their pensions will rise next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U102	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U103	Ladies and gentlemen, To begin by congratulating the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union for initiating a very important topic and also for joining a first-hand, beautiful radical proposal. It has been under discussion for some time and different initiators have raised this issue, but if it is taken up in such a forum and raised to a level of attention as it is now, then it can be done. So anyway, thank you! Desperation leads to life. The main thing is never to lose despair. It has been scientifically proven that the body can absorb itself when it is in distress, when it is in need of death. If the organism is capable of mobilizing itself, and what people are other than one living organism, then it will overcome this distress, and it will come out of death. For this reason, despair as a signal is a source of gratitude. Desperation as a source of apathy must, of course, be excluded. Then the lethargy is very close, and death is not far. So let's get optimism out of here. We understand where we are now. But do we all understand that? We're making our decisions on the basis of the experience we've had so far. The number of decision-makers who have attended so-called elite schools is increasing. For them, the problems that arise in different schools, other regions, are not taken seriously, they are not felt. In the context of urbanisation, there are increasing numbers of decision-makers from the city. Rural problems are not felt. Of course, an unmanaged administrative reform, which means that there are no strong local governments everywhere that can keep life viable on the ground, is one reason. Maybe it's not done because people with different experiences don't think it's that important. If the proportion of those caring for their children becomes too low in society, it can determine the fatal development of this society in the future. That's the way it is now. More and more decision makers are those who are either no longer exposed to the problem of raising their children, or those who, for some reason, have never been exposed to it, those who take glamorous advertising from a poster or television and live by it as a standard of living. They do not understand why their peers deal with matters that require time and resources, such as raising children. We must hold back the decisive development of this destructive experience and mentality in society. If this requires an artificial increase in the proportion of the votes of families with children compared to the current tradition, this must be done. If the experiences of families with children, or the concern and positive despair they have, have begun to weigh too little in society, then it must be given artificially more weight than society wants to live. In this sense, the proposal put forward by Mr Hvostov and the Union of the Fatherland and Res Publica as a political force is worth considering in any case, and I think it is also worth implementing. If, as a organism, we sense the will to live and that we want to keep our own living space, that we do not want (as a pity, we have a little bit of the future in front of us) to start speaking a completely different language or other traditions here in the near future, and if we want the people to be evolutionary, we must give this people the opportunity. By the way, under the conditions of Geronto-kraatia (this term may also have a positive meaning) the focus on emigration may not be serious enough, because this issue is not important for those whose children have already gone. But if people from your social circle, your classmates and your courtmates are ever leaving, this experience will affect you. With our experience in this society, we are too stratified and fragmented, we have fragmented social networks. People who do well work in good places and go only on the birthdays of well-managed people, and they don't even happen to travel around the country and see the real lives of people, may think that the problem isn't that even if someone does, they'll come back. But the problem is actually very serious. There's one more suggestion. One could apply a positive or inverted child deprivation tax. What is this tax exemption or tax credit for families with children or for children other than reversed and 'positive' childlessness tax? The idea of lowering income tax could be put to a halt, because at the moment our society cannot stand it. A move should be made so that, for example, from the fourth child to the family or one parent does not pay income tax. That would be a perfectly clear contribution for families with children. Yes, you say that we have already gone too far into the European Union that the wall is ahead. In the near future, tax policy will be harmonised and hardly be allowed to do so in one nation. If we do not act quickly, the constitutional amendment that we are currently planning and which would be right, i.e. to vote for the parents in elections for their children, would probably be under discussion in Brussels and perhaps we would not be allowed to do so. But let us take our steps quickly, and let us try to remain independent. Main: Let's try to keep it!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U104	Mr President, three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U105	... The researcher at the University of Tartu said: 'A counterflow always responds to any migration, which is about a size smaller than this. ' If you see the 10% in the statistics that drives in the other direction, do not think that the main flow has gone out with it, but those that did not get under the roots elsewhere. Many returned after their country arose. What would make people come back now? The trump card of the creation of your country has already been used up. The world war, which would result in the collapse of emigration areas, is not like a practical idea, because we do not want the Europe that is going to collapse today, because our beliefs are that our world should collapse. In broad, purely technical terms, Estonia has its own kind of migration point, as our settlement area is subject to migration from east to west and south-east to northwest, but on one side there is free movement of labour, but on the other side there is a wall ahead and only large divisions or those who are helped by them can be overcome. I'm not talking about this wall any further, this wall is just there, and it needs to be known. People's migration and urbanisation are global problems; they are not just a concern in Estonia. A number of countries have built strong retreat strategies against it, starting with regional policy, for example, it has already been repeated today in Sweden and other Scandinavian countries. However, we have the impression that we have only learned from the Soviet commanders about attacking and retreating or retreating is, in our opinion, a weak subject. Therefore, thank you very much to the initiators of today's debate. Our good fellows would hardly be happy if the life work of the great captain and the smaller captains of today's Estonian flagship were to be summed up by the words: 'The cheery, full of deep optimism, we shot the ship to the bottom. " To prevent this from happening, our country needs to be run more balancedly than before. Good luck to us! When I look at the watch, I see that I can occasionally touch on the subject of family elections. Humanly, this idea is very sympathetic to me. In the 1880s my great-grandfather Ants Kross was in a lot of trouble as an elder in the parish when the school disputes broke out in the Käru parish council and he said, "Boys at the door, now the children's fathers decide! " However, I am of the opinion that family elections are certainly not the only and not even the most important way to improve the situation. I am convinced that the problem needs to be looked at much more widely. When we say that we are building a civil society in Estonia, we should not think that we are doing this in any way around the corner, such as bypassing the foundation of civil society, the local government. Thank you to everyone who made it to the end! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U106	Would you like some extra time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our topic today is an analysis of the preliminary results of the census. Census statistics, as at all, have been considered a tool of wise rulers since the beginning of their organization. It would be good if it were exactly the same today. It is no secret to anyone that a poor demographic situation is a very serious threat to the sustainability of any country. There has also been a lot of talk today about the age structure of the population and the low birth rate. I thought I was talking about what hasn't been said yet. Otherwise, we're gonna want to cook some rich soup on one side of the pot, but let's forget there's something else boiling in the pot. Birth rates and mortality are important factors, so-called ordinary factors, but it is migration that can lead not only to a decline but also to a demographic disaster. Estonia is indeed becoming the land of emigrants. According to the worst forecast, as the current political developments continue, only up to 850000 people will soon live in Estonia. This would not only be a quantitative but inevitably also a severe qualitative setback for society as a whole and a blow to sustainability and statehood. This was an episode of history. It was a great provocation for me. I would also like to start talking about history, because too often people come up with myths and deliberate choices when they talk about history. I could present archival sources and talk about 17th century sources, when in some villages only Berend, ein Hollander, Hermann, ein Deutsche, Jaak, ein Russe and how their children were Estonians 30 years later. But unfortunately, it is not today's issue. It is also impossible for me to disprove the myth, as if only 150,000 people lived in Estonia after the Northern War. Herbert Ligi, the father of the current Minister of Finance, has elegantly disproved this. But, you know, a few people were written down back then. In analysing the current migration situation, it is certainly worth presenting historical comparisons, but perhaps the most appropriate thing is to compare it with the 1907s, 1908s, 1909s and 1910s, when there was a fierce struggle in the media, because the people left. The reason was clear: it was better elsewhere. They were expected elsewhere. According to the newspaper, it is not possible to raise the wages of the servants in Estonia, because the Estonian farm economy will collapse immediately, but if in a few years the 30,000 cashiers left Estonia, they were raised. Mart Pool, the father of Theodor Pool, the first Estonian minister of agriculture, wrote to his son: "Jüri went to Siberia, and instead he had to put the wind engine on the roof of the cattle table, which now pumps water. " Not only did the servants go, also educated people went to doctors, engineers, technicians, sausage and cheesemakers, because they were expected there. There was another reason: the Russian state favored it because white people were needed on the outskirts to crowd out the 'yellow brothers'. The most important thing to know is that it is difficult to influence migration. This requires a well-thought-out interaction between social, economic and cultural measures. Migration isn't a dog to show him a piece of sausage and he's already running the other way. People's migration responds only to qualitative changes in society. At the beginning of the 20th century, there was a demographic miracle in Estonia when the August of emigration came out, but it did not happen by itself. The losses of emigration were compensated by a higher birth rate. The ideal of the Estonian farm family was a four-child model. An even greater miracle was that some of the Estonians who left their homeland, sometimes even the Germans and Russians, came back. Estonians were reborn in 1914 when Russia was no longer popular as Germans were at war. From Russia they came back when Jaan Poska called: "Estonian brothers, come and build your country! ' It is dangerous to hope that the situation will improve by itself. Sometimes it is easy to find comfort in statistics that people are coming back today. The founder of the scientific theory of folk migration Ernst Georg Ravenstein, who was a great German-origin English scientist, intelligence analyst and excellent...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U108	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good head waitresses! Let me take a look at history as a start. About 70,000 years ago, Earth's population was on the verge of extinction. After the eruption of the Toba volcano, some 10,000 of our distant, long-range ancestors were left. It has not been easier in Estonia either. While a little over 7,000 inhabitants lived in Estonia before our Common Era, or before the birth of Christ, the Livonian War, the Northern War, plague, abstinence, etc., already mentioned here, left Estonians in an area where there had been several hundred thousand inhabitants, almost 150,000. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to some of the contradictions in demographic behaviour. First of all, the growth of the earth's population versus the decline in population growth in developed countries. Is this not a subconscious, demographically sustainable behaviour of the population of countries with a high standard of living because it is claimed that there is not enough resources for all to meet the high standard of living in Europe, America and Japan? Maybe. Next, the following contradiction: production versus consumption and ecological footprint growth. The land, which currently has seven billion or even more inhabitants, is unlikely to be able to share these resources to all, at least not comparable to the countries or regions mentioned above, these resources are not sufficient. The next contradiction is the growth of an ageing population versus the constant decline of taxpayers, the working population, which we feel very well in our own country, and in Europe as a whole, it is the same. This is because, for example, in Finland, which is our northern neighbour, where there has been many times more money for regional policy, and still has, there is a similar trend: the population is concentrated in larger centres, especially in southern Finland. Whether it is enough to list these contradictions to say that, if we are trying to find solutions here today, on the one hand, with concern, it is basically, in a certain sense, to swim against the tide in the face of these tendencies and contradictions. But we have no other choice, we have to find the optimal solution for us to be there and we will last. They say the optimist is well informed of the pessimist. What do we believe in? Unfortunately, many of the speeches that have been heard here have been too pessimistic. Yes, we have concerns and we have serious situations that need solutions and perhaps very exceptional solutions. The fact is, there is no golden, unambiguous and only possible answer to all these concerns. However, we need to find ways that we can put into practice. The parental benefit introduced under the leadership of the Reform Party has given families confidence. This system needs to be continued and developed. Once again, all speeches that somehow detract from parental benefits, try to reduce it, etc. mean only one insecurity for young families. Why must we increase this uncertainty? The Reform Party is firmly committed to ensuring that parental benefits are not only continued but also developed. All that concerns support for families, including families rich in children, obviously also needs to be developed. In particular, you should look at the time when the parental benefit has ended. We have embarked on this path: the development of childcare services, the reconciliation of family and working life opportunities, the introduction of a nationally recognised family-friendly company certificate, so that the parent knows where his or her value is valued and his or her needs are understood, as well as the development of children's recreational education and the introduction of circular money, to give examples of what we have already planned. I very much hope that the economic situation of our country and of the whole world will improve to the extent that we can implement all this at least from the year after that. The Reform Party is not fully convinced of the possibility of family elections, although it has discussed the subject in detail. We will certainly analyse in detail how this will affect population growth, and then we will make a decision. Certainly from this remote control, we do not want to see this possibility as a possible confrontation with older people in any way. Rather, I would like to say and confirm that our party firmly believes that older people need to be given opportunities in the labour market so that their working lives can be extended so that they are able to earn their own livelihoods. This would also save potential costs in the public sector, not only for young people, whose numbers are falling. Yes, as a country and a nation in history, we have repeatedly suffered injustice. Yet in 20 years, we have risen from almost non-existent as a nation and country. In my opinion, despite sometimes excessive pessimism, we have reached nearly 70% of the European Union's average standard of living. Our people and the country he created have done well. We've come out of difficult situations. I would like us to have more confidence and confidence that our generation and next generations will be able to cope both as a nation and as a country. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U109	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U110	Wars, occupations, and material hardships have not allowed this moment of nature to be realized, for neither children will be given birth to the state, children will be born of love, and the family will have confidence that the offspring will be brought up with dignity. In Estonia today, there are reasons why it is decided to limit itself to one child, for example, several times studied and severally written into plans. The measures are also black and white in the "Children's and Families' Development Plan 2012 to 2020' prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The development plan recommends, above all, contributing to the creation of an environment conducive to child growth, which includes more flexible labour market measures, better ways of reconciling family and working life, the creation of new kindergarten places, as well as increasing universal child benefits. It's like it's okay if it's not just naked papers. While social benefits in the Member States of the European Union currently account for an average of 27% of GDP, this figure is 12.5% in Estonia. Without parental benefit, the total amount of social benefits would be negligible. Of course, parental benefit helps the family, but focusing only on the child's first and a half years of life does not produce the desired results. Of course, it is good that the parental pension was legalized, but it is ridiculous to declare that the hope of receiving an old pension supplement is a lever to increase the birth rate. None of the measures taken by the state to help children and families with children go any further. If we do not want to owe our own children, we should even enter into a social agreement so that family benefits account for at least 3% of GDP and more free services for children. But what doesn't help at all is the populist promise of the current navigators that in a year's time, the children living in the greatest distress will receive ten euros a month. It doesn't drag any children out of poverty. Of course, a measure promoted to reform child benefits, but rather designed to dampen the scandal, does not add any certainty to potential parents who are considering the desire to have a child. It all comes down to choices that matter, which it doesn't. In a country with a declining population, we should take every political decision, every economic decision based on the well-being of a person, both small and old, rather than on the approval of the manor manor. History shows that Estonians are a very ambitious nation. We want to be like Europeans in the European Union, but unfortunately, the policy that our coalition is driving is not going to get us far here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U111	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U112	I did not fully understand the question, but I call on you to think at a slightly more abstract level, not just by restricting yourself to one particular issue. There is a fundamental change in this proposal. Our entire electoral system, all our political decisions, are actually expressions of the will of the people. This is not the case here at least, and in my opinion Estonia is no longer in the same way that, before the elections, something will be allowed together with huge populism, votes will be obtained, but in a few years' time, politics will be removed. All the political parties that are represented in this Chamber today have been involved in Estonia's life for years, they have conducted very many elections. Very many people here have had quite a number of compositions, and they know that if you promise anything, you have to make a promise. Some say the electorate's memory is short, but it's not. People remember very accurately. That is why the idea of giving political weight to children and family people by amending the Constitution means that, in the long term (I am not talking about individual politicians here, but about the functioning of political logic at all), it is precisely the interests of children and families that are being taken into account. There's no questioner against that logic, I guess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U113	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U114	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The IRL generation policy has always made me wonder. I remember that in 2005, when we made the biggest pension increase ever, Res Publica and a large part of Fatherland did not vote for it. On that occasion, your spokesperson said that the pension increase would come at the expense of future generations. Today, you're making a wish to vote for families. This means, in fact, reducing the voice of the elderly, which means that you do not value the older generation whose experiences and assets are built up in this society. What, though, is the contrast, and why do you not care about the experience of older people? Is it really the question that the elderly do not choose you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U115	Thank you, good questioner! I couldn't have imagined you'd have asked otherwise. I have not said anything like what you said on your own question, but I have said the opposite several times. You're the one who's trying to challenge different age groups right now, not me. I am saying that the share of children and families in society must be increased, not reduced. I think that the older electorate group is also very clearly in this position and they support it because they know from their experience in life how important it is that the interests of children and families are protected. I'm not going along with this contrast because there's no contrast here. Certainly some politician (maybe also a questioner) feels that this could become a continuation of his political flight, but I do not think it is worth building on. There's no confrontation. I would remind you that next year pensions will rise by 5%, pension increases will be included in the budget. Older people should not be worried that someone is going to cut their pension. On the contrary. But we have to take the interests of children and families very seriously along these lines. We have a development plan for children and families until 2020, which was adopted by the government last year. Its implementation will cost over EUR 380 million until 2020. This is a document agreed with all parties. Representatives of all political parties took part in this process. It has been drawn up on the basis of a evidence-based method, several measures have been considered for years, it has an operational programme, it is known the cost of all this. Its implementation requires a very strong political will. I am not talking here about populist individual promises, but precisely about continuous, over the years, election-to-election activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U116	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U117	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Renewed Estonia has never been born as little first-laps as it is now, a circle 42% less than in 1991. This, in turn, means that the number of children born into the family as a second child will soon decrease. If we go on like this, we can soon carry a family with three children into a red book. An old-age pension that you have approved, which is likely to be paid by the current 30-year-olds at the age of 70 to 75, is certainly not a lever to increase the birth rate. My question is: what has the current government coalition and the IRL done to ensure that we have more first and other children?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U118	Thank you, good questioner! What positive political decisions have been taken over the last five and a half years? There have actually been a lot of them, but this is not the subject of today's debate. But, Heljo, your remark is very accurate. In fact, the number of first-born births has decreased. I hope this is not a long-term trend. But what is definitely at stake is that we have come through a very difficult economic crisis. People's situation is unstable. I mentioned here and make no secret of it that decisions have been taken at both national and local level, which have had a negative impact on the expectation of stability, particularly for those who are deciding on the birth of a child. That is why this proposal, which I tabled here today, is also a proposal. In addition to changing political logic, I think that it would give children and their parents the value of not making such negative decisions in the future, especially at the level of constitutional change.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U119	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the time for questions is running out. So Priit Onion's gonna miss his chance this time. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We must vote on this proposal. Good Riigikogu, I will vote on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There were 40 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no one opposed it, with 4 abstentions. Therefore, we will extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We'll continue the negotiations. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The results of the census are 75816 people less than ten years ago, and show the current trend in Estonia. We're on our way to a nation without our people. Today, 889770 Estonians live in their own country, as much as in the late 19th century. Moreover, our population is ageing and ageing rapidly. Emigration and low birth rates are the main factors behind the collapse of the Estonian people. Why are children not born? Why go abroad? Both questions have the same answer: the state does not care about its people. As a country, we live like a play or a pseudolife, live in the name of abstract numbers, indicators, keeping a humble, benevolent look at the older brothers in Europe, are we not good, are we not worthy of praise? It is as if the person for whom the country was created is multi-stage, merely a wrench to achieve commendable results. However, the less Estonians remain in Estonia, the more costly it is to maintain the nation state. Who can predict when the time will come when our high schools will actually go to English? However, since the Estonian people and national culture can thrive only in the Estonian language environment and with the support of the state, it is clear that the first time of national statehood is already known. From this goal, which is also solemnly formulated in our constitution, we are living by the free will. If we continue to do so, we will take away from future and hopefully smarter generations the opportunity to turn the country's ships on course. Even if they wanted best, they wouldn't be able to do it anymore, because there's not enough left to do it. That is why we must subject the seemingly fineness of the state to the interests of our people and, without delay, to changes in tax, social and regional policy. A thin country doesn't work. The consequences of regional policy, left in the path of self-regulation, are at hand: rural municipalities are emptiness and life is concentrated around metropolitan areas. Any kindergarten, primary school, or pharmacy that closes down in the countryside will in turn produce a snowball effect. How can you continue to live at home, start a family, and raise children when all support services move elsewhere? It is regrettable that the largest number of people have left Järvamaa, with a 21% reduction in population in ten years. In fact, things have gone from elsewhere in Central Estonia, where our best farmland is the best conditions for rural development. Once the roots have been cut, there is no standing in any new habitat, such as the side of Tallinn, rather it is a board to go across the bay or to some other foreign country. However, it seems tragic to me that last year's fall in power. More than a thousand children were born less than the Tunamullus. After all, the number of women of childbearing age is now at the top, and this is still a large generation during the singing revolution. In a few years, there will be much less young people growing up. The average number of children per woman was 1.52 last year. For population reproduction, the total birth rate should be at least 2,1. The increase in women's birth age does not inspire hope. The mother's average age at the time of birth was 29.5 years last year. Renewed Estonia has never had as little first-childhood as it is now, a circuit 42% less than in 1991. This, in turn, will soon mean a reduction in the number of births of other children. When women keep delaying their desire to have a child, children are often not born. It won't help if we call on women to give birth. The desire of two or three children has lived naturally in our women for generations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U121	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Three more minutes, eight more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U122	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask for Aadu Black next!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the reply to Olga Sõtnik's question about Tallinn for the sake of the verbatim. He gave an example of his family, and I give an example of my family. My first four children received both birth grant and infant pack from Tallinn. However, when the fifth child was born, Tallinn said that it needed to be cut, and the child did not receive a package or birth grant. Children's interest education money has been drawn to zero, children's sports allowance money has been significantly reduced, school hobbies and after-schools money have been drawn to zero, nursery bounty has been reduced and investments have been rendered null. Speaking of kindergarten bounty, it is up to 1800 euros per child in Tallinn than in neighbouring municipalities. But we are not talking about monetary issues, it is not about poverty. We have nearly 700000 motor vehicles and less than 300000 children. We're just looking at cars. Ladies and gentlemen, In 1980 there were 126500 passenger cars and 22204 births in Estonia, and last year there were 574000 passenger cars, or five times more, and 14679 births, or 50% less, in 2011. It's not about poverty, let's face it, it's not about failure. In one of Tallinn's slums called Kalamaja, Tallinn has planned 4,000 new residents in new apartments. At least one parking space is built at each apartment even during the free public transport period. We do not have a compulsory car, but we have committed in the Constitution to basic education for children. However, there is not a single new middle school place planned. They're already missing. In Kalamaja Basic School, 29 students in the first grade have been pushed, although the law for more than 24 children does not allow. As early as October, 1700 children of kindergarten age were in line in Tallinn, a large part of them since last year. However, it is not a matter of maliciousness either. The state will restore paternity leave in 2013, parental pension will also come from 1 January, families will not have to pay tuition fees in higher education, child benefits will start to grow, basic schools will be pushed closer to homes and even new development plans will be made for kindergartens in Tallinn. It's not about one party or another. Everyone in power has been cut off at the expense of the children. This is not even about Estonia alone. In Sweden, the most child-friendly country in the world, both state scientists and the Pediatricians' Association are discussing the need to introduce electoral rights in Sweden from the moment of birth, to be realised by parents. The reason is the same as in Estonia: children's rights are not well protected, the legal situation of children has also been recognised as a problem in the Swedish country. It's not about money, it's about general security. By cutting, as Andrei Hvostov emphasised, and as Professor Ene-Margit Tiit repeated several times, people have been deprived of their sense of security. The sharp decrease in the number of first-borns since 2008 is a sufficiently serious signal. The reason is deeper than the reduced kindergarten bounty of the Socialist Party and the Centre Party, or the Reform Party and the IRL have been taken away from the coaster allowance. We are talking about justice, we are talking about human rights, specifically whether a child is an equal person for society. If every citizen has a country-wide tax-free limit, why are there no nearly 100,000 children among their citizens? Let us go to more fundamental justice issues. Does it not make sense that each person means one voice in social order? The development of democracy throughout the world has moved in the direction that one person should mean one vote in the elections. Why do we think that children should not delegate their vote when all the people who are in this Chamber, 101 members of the Riigikogu, act here on the basis of the votes delegated to us? But from words to deeds. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association confirm, according to their electoral promises, that, first of all, in terms of family elections, we are moving forward with the preparation of the draft Act amending the Estonian Constitution. Yes, we are making a draft amendment to the Constitution. All suggestions, all observations and also all very acute questions are welcome. Today's debate should be the beginning of a serious parliamentary debate. The second promise is considerably more complicated, as it concerns compliance with the existing rule. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2001, 11 years, we have had the norm of drafts to be processed in the Riigikogu. It states in black in white that the explanatory memorandum to each draft must begin with an explanation, an analysis of how the draft will affect or whether it will affect the demographic situation at all. This is stated in § 49 'Reflecting the expected effect of the Law'. Demographic implications in the explanatory notes of the drafts have not been seen by my weak eyes. Why? We just haven't done it! Yes, in the explanatory memorandum, we reflect how the bill affects the situation of flowers and butterflies, but we do not pay attention to our fellow species. When we analyse the draft, we even reflect how it affects gender equality. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Department for Gender Equality is bigger than the Department for Children and Families. We promise, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, and we very much hope that three other parties will join us, that we will comply with the rule that has been in force for 11 years. It may be necessary to convene a working group to discuss how best to do this, but it is high time to start. It is also one of the things that demographers have put to our heart. Finally, any confrontation between children and the elderly is indeed foolish and, in essence, extremely wrong. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association stresses that we must protect all the weakest and that all the weakest and those in need must also be represented in elections. Caring for the weaker part of society and taking into account all the right to vote in solidarity would have the same effect as in Germany, which was illustrated by Andrei Hvostov, where both families with children and the elderly won in society. Thank you very much. We want to move forward with at least a two-system upgrade.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U124	Thank you very much. We have, quite often, discussions on important national issues here recently and perhaps not at all on such important issues. But today's subject is undoubtedly one of the most important. Debate on the country's demographic situation in Parliament, especially if there are materials such as the results of the census, will certainly be part of this format. However, I think that perhaps we have been a little hasty in organising this debate, because the final results are still coming. Some things are still classified for us now, and our possible political decisions are certainly of higher quality than we have been familiar with. But I would like to ask how the Committee on Social Affairs prepared for today's debate. What other issues and ideas have emerged, in addition to the idea of family elections that you have presented here basically? Did the Committee on Social Affairs work closely on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U125	Thank you, good questioner! The debate on this nationally important issue was initiated by the IRL Group; it has not been initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs. That is why the Committee on Social Affairs did not prepare this question either and there has been no debate on this particular issue. However, the Committee on Social Affairs is currently discussing all issues relating to the social sphere, including children's and family policies. I can say here with peace of mind that this is one of the most fundamental issues that the Committee on Social Affairs has dealt with and will continue to deal with. This particularly concerns child poverty and family policy, how it is managed. A draft state budget law has been submitted to the procedure. I hope that next week the draft law on the reform of children's and family allowances will also be launched in this Chamber. The Social Affairs Committee deals with these issues every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U126	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U127	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I have this question: who chooses for orphanage children, the director, the teacher or the janitor? We are also discussing such a case when parental rights have been removed. For example, this mother has given birth to nine children. Does he still have the right to choose for the children? How is this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U128	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U129	Thank you very much. I'll have Tõnis Lukas next.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U130	Good questioner! These are the very good issues on which a solution needs to be found, namely a legal solution. But I agree that, first of all, we need to find a consensus on whether society is fundamentally ready to go this way. Andrei Hvostov said one possible solution: one parent receives the right to vote for the child. When we look at how the social system has worked so far, all child benefits, all family benefits are paid to one parent, and one parent's children are counted for retirement years. So, in fact, there is already this solution in our legal space, which is, in the sense of law, the one who is also involved in raising a child in the legal sense. If no agreement is reached, the current system provides for the possibility of recourse to the courts. But there have been very few of these cases in 20 years, less than ten. I want to say that there is a need to think seriously about how to deal with these exceptional cases, but the rights of these children are certainly guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U131	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U132	Thank you, Madam President. Good speaker! You promised me you'd be very honest today, at least you said so. Tell me, please, very honestly, what's stopping you from taking care of families with children and children today! What do you need these extra votes for, in a situation where you're the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and the representative of the power coalition? Who's stopping you, your partymates or the Reform Party, and what would these extra votes give now? If, for example, we look at the budget for next year, we will see no change there. The fact that a child living in poverty receives ten euros is not a reform. It's not what makes women give birth, nor is it when something changes since the third child. We are talking about the need to encourage the birth of the first children, to support families. There won't be any more services. What's stopping you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U133	Thank you. We live in a democratic country, we have a Riigikogu, and everyone's opinion is very important here. In my opinion, the start of the reform of children's benefits next year is, in essence, a doubling of the third child's allowance and a triple of the support paid for the birth of triplets, a very serious step. Similarly, the paternity allowance will be restored next year. But the debate about what anyone can do personally and the complaint about why the budget for next year does not provide for, for example, a ten-fold increase in child benefits, etc., does not lead us to much, as we are in the situation we are in. I told you before, I don't want to start this debate at all, but, Urve, you're creating it yourself. All political parties have dealt with what has made our family policy unstable. When we started cuts at the beginning of the economic crisis, the Social Democrats were in the government. They held the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance came to the government with proposals for cuts. This debate isn't taking us anywhere, Urve. I would like to say that a change in the system is needed, which is appropriate for the establishment of family elections. That's just what we're doing. This does not rule out anything in the future, but we are creating a situation where we give everyone the right to vote and significantly increase the proportion of children and families in political decision-making.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U134	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U135	Thank you. Dear waitress, The Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu lays down the principle of a free mandate according to which a member of the Riigikogu is independent and performs his duties in accordance with the Constitution, laws, public interests and his conscience. This essentially means that in its decisions, it must not represent the interests of a particular electorate or even of a electoral group, but must reflect on the long-term developments in society. In this context, how do you comment on the statement made by Andrei Hvostov that you cannot deal with these issues enough because you have to represent pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will begin with a reply from my colleague, Evgeni Ossinovski. I think that if we could agree on how we 101 members of the Riigikogu could continue here for as long as possible, this would be a political technological approach. But if we try to give a man a vote in elections from birth, I think this is a paradigmic change in society. I certainly don't think that's a political trick. Given the current situation and the primary results of the population and housing census, I believe that we need changes in thinking and the paradigm to address this issue. New ideas that shake us hard are certainly welcome. Personally, I think that the debate and the amendment of the Constitution on this issue are sufficiently justified. But there are also opportunities that we can already use to resolve this issue. There are a number of problems that can be solved more quickly and without changing the constitution, from the complexity of adoption to the financing of abortions, including optional abortions from the state budget. From time to time, we hear about attempts and ideas to change the existing understanding of the family. It is said that times have changed and this also requires new opportunities in the legal environment. I certainly do not support such thinking. If we look at the change in attitude to abortions in history, I am convinced that, no later than for two generations, we are talking about the need to enable euthanasia on a large scale, because the demographic situation and people's unwillingness to accept a deterioration in quality of life can lead to this. Believe me, we don't want to find ourselves in this situation. That is why I think it is important to make every effort to ensure that families have confidence. If Mom and Dad have a fortress and if there is love, children will be born. Today's debate and the idea put forward will certainly help us in this direction. We will then continue the activities in and outside this hall that will help the family based on the mother and father to feel more confident about their future. We have a chance. I would like to thank all the co-thinkers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U137	Thank you very much. Any more requests for negotiation? There are no further requests for negotiation. I would like to thank all those who have expressed their views, those who have taken part and those who have prepared this important debate. Thank you, too. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U138	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U139	We will continue and begin work on the second item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U140	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a draft law which should amend the Penal Code, namely its two sections: § 58 and § 151. Paragraph 58 of the current Penal Code deals with aggravating circumstances. In total, there are 11 of these, such as committing a crime against children and other brutal things. Our proposal is to include a motive for racial, national, or religious hatred. The second amendment concerns § 151 'Instigation of hatred'. The problem is that, according to the current law, incitement to hatred is not practically punishable unless it leads to physical consequences, such as death or hospital beds. This means that the law in force actually favours incitement to hatred. The need to change this standard has been constantly brought to the attention of the Estonian state by many international organisations in several reports. I'm not going to read them all here. However, for example, the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, which noted this in 2010, the European Commission for Combating Racism and Intolerance set up by the Council of Europe and the Advisory Committee on the Framework Convention on the Protection of Minorities, which is a body of the Council of Europe, have drawn our attention over the last two years to the need for such changes. In addition, the draft defines what a public call is. So far, it hasn't been done again. In advance, I will say that I know that the government did not support this draft. We were told that the reason was the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Prisons Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure in the Ministry of Justice. This bill is indeed in the coordination circle. But there is now an interesting thing that I did not know myself during the Commission's debate, because it had not yet happened: this draft law of the Ministry of Justice was not coordinated by the Ministry of the Interior. The reason was that, according to the Ministry of the Interior, in a situation where the need to amend the Penal Code arises only from a few international obligations, the penalty rule should be amended to a minimum, maintaining as much of the structure and terminology of the standard as possible. The Ministry of the Interior argued that since the draft explanatory memorandum did not provide any substantive justification as to why the term "invitation' for the main activity of a criminal offence should be replaced by the term "punishment', the Ministry of the Interior cannot support the draft developed by the Ministry of Justice. Our own draft has not changed the terminology of the law. We rather support the position of the Ministry of the Interior, because these are indeed two different concepts. I would add so much that the Ministry of Justice's draft amends even Section 24 of the Penal Code so that it gets very wide and changes other laws. This procedure could probably take a long time. So my proposal to the Riigikogu is to support our draft, because there is currently a situation in Estonia where incitement to hatred is not punishable. However, we can all give ten examples in ten minutes of how this incitement to hatred actually takes place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U141	Thank you very much. There's a question for you. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In our neighbouring Russian Federation, the person who wrote in the newspaper recently was held responsible for the fact that in Udmurtia there is almost no chance of learning Udmurtia at school. In the opinion of the authorities, raising the issue of teaching Udmurt's language encouraged interethnic hatred. Can't the bill you put forward as a law create a legal basis for Russian school activists to be accused of incitement to hatred between nations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U143	As long as we do not live in the Russian Federation, which, I sincerely believe, does not endanger us, that is certainly not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U144	Thank you very much. No further questions. I would like to ask Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U145	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I present as the representative of the Commission, which was discussed at the meeting of the Commission. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft on 24 September. In addition to the members of the committee, the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal, his advisor Madis Timpson, and Kati Taste-Pärnna, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure were present. The bill introduced Yana Toom. Of course, the Members of the Commission were interested in what is the motive for drawing up this draft. Yana Toom replied that, on the one hand, the reason was pure logic, but, on the other hand, a number of precepts, which she mentioned in her report. One from the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and the other from the Advisory Committee on the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. In the Commission, there was a debate on the subject of incitement and incitement, which Yana Toom has already dealt with here a little bit. In addition, a debate was held on the basis of a wide range of Estonian cases. It was discussed whether one case or the other could be punishable under this section (as an example of style, the following cases could be considered: 'a bullet to somebody', 'commies to an oven' or 'brown children') and whether any party should therefore be closed in Estonia. But we were able to get out of this debate with dignity and listen to the position of the Government of the Republic. Yana's initiator has already mentioned that this is a negative. When it comes to what could be blamed for this draft, one problem relates to § 151 (1) of the draft law. This act should be a criminal offence under the Council of Europe Framework Decision and cannot be a misdemeanor. That's one. It has certainly not been very successful either in paragraph 2 of this section, where point 11 is introduced. In addition, it is a matter of taste as regards paragraphs 3 and 4. But it certainly cannot be said that there is nothing positive about this bill. The government bill, which, after the debates in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Justice, I think, will, of course, become beautifully complex, just as the government bill always does, but I asked if there is anything positive about the draft that we are debating today. Kati Taste-Pärnna, Head of Service of the Ministry of Justice, replied that the proposed paragraph 5, which seeks to define a public call within the meaning of a particular section, should certainly be recognised. In his view, the government could also rewrite this concept in the same way, either as a specific paragraph of the law or by doing so in an explanatory memorandum, so that the public call would be equally understood by everyone. Now the decisions of the Commission. The Commission, after discussing this draft and whether it makes sense to combine it with a possible draft of the government, and despite the positive aspects I have highlighted and for which the Centre Party, as the initiator, decided to put this draft on the agenda of this House today (it has also been done and here we were all in agreement) but also to propose that it be rejected (by 5 and against 4 members of the Commission, without 1 member). I was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U146	Thank you very much. You have a lot of questions. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I ask without mockery, perhaps you will refresh my memory: why is it not possible to merge these two drafts if our draft were to pass the first reading and this second draft after these disputes would come to the Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U148	Thanks! It is always such a place of philosophical discussion, whether or not to do so. Since the 250 draft does not actually provide answers to all the questions that the Framework Convention requires (e.g. the punitive nature of racist membership of the Community, the punitive nature of the underestimation of international crime, as well as the subject of the wrongdoing and crime that I mentioned here), it was not worth combining these drafts only in the name of the common part that is there. But it could have been decided differently. I do not think that this is a big and fundamental issue. This is always the place of choice, there is no absolute truth here. We know that over the years, there have been a series of laws initiated by the opposition, which have passed the first reading and have all been happy. But how many of them have finally become the law? Very few. I hope, by the way, that there will soon be one such draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U149	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U150	Good President! Good waitress! You said that the committee discussed the 'beautiful' slogans like 'dark children', 'bullet in the head' and everything else. How do you feel about the natural nature of what is happening in the Estonian media and, sometimes, in this Chamber, that mockery and defamation are allowed to everyone and is not punishable by law in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U151	Thanks! This is where I can only express my personal opinion. Of course, respect for one another is the hallmark of a good nursery. That's how it's supposed to be. In the Commission, we did not discuss this issue further.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U152	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U153	Thank you. You know, when I listened to all this, I remembered my favorite ad, the advertising on the Estonian Päevaleht: 'Doesn't read the Estonian Päevaleht? That means a chick. " There are actually a lot of these things. My question to you as an optimist is this: when do you think that this provision, which we are discussing at the moment, could still be put in place in such a way that incitement to hatred would really be against the law? When could that happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U154	I don't have the guts to offer one. I am sure that this must be done separately and before the Penal Code task force has reviewed the entire Penal Code. I suppose that could happen this year. As far as the Committee on Legal Affairs is concerned, whether the draft deals with 4, 14 or 2 laws, we will deal with all the drafts nicely and very quickly with our ten people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U155	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U156	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Marko! There has been a lot of talk here, especially in the case of the opposition's drafts, that there will be an audit of the Penal Code. I know you're a member of this task force. Those deadlines must have moved a little further. Do you know how to enlighten us now? Does your working group have any noise, for example, when would a new version of the Penal Code arrive at the Riigikogu? Could this be during the working hours of this membership, or am I too optimistic?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U157	The fact that you gave such time frames made it so much easier to answer. I think the answer is yes. As far as the substantive work is concerned, whether or not there is just some kind of working group together, but nothing is going on, the answer here is no. We have an appointment for October and November meetings. On 18 October, I think the next meeting will be held. We work for about three hours at a time, a specific chapter is prepared, and if there is no discussion, let's just say it's nice. If there is a discussion and we think that there should be another solution, Jaan Sootak's company will be given the opportunity to come to the next test with a new specific wording. This activity is continuous. I dare even think that it is not unrealistic that this large package of paper could be ripe for submission to the Riigikogu in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U158	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U159	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Riigikogu. A representative of the good Commission. I listened carefully to your views on why one or the other draft is not appropriate. It was left to the ear to scratch that your main argument why it is not possible to deal with the problem in essence is that there is some sort of executive power and expert body in parallel with the Riigikogu, which is the legislative power, and that this body is in principle doing our job. To you, as a representative of the Commission, I have this question: why do you think that the right place to deal with the draft law and the problems in essence is not exactly the Commission? We do not have to wait for every bill to come out of the hands of the executive authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U160	Thanks! The truth, as we all know, comes only from the hall of the Riigikogu, mostly it is pure gold, and the President of the Republic accepts it in most cases. As far as the preparation of the drafts is concerned, I think it makes perfect sense for the executive power, with its apparatus, to contribute to having as high-quality drafts as possible, which we can really discuss without any restrictions and decide on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-11_U161	Thank you very much. No further questions for the performer. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Since the proposal of the lead committee was to reject the draft at first reading, we must vote on this proposal. We'll start preparing it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Penal Code, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 39 members of the Riigikogu and 23 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported and the draft has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda has been exhausted. I wish you a good day. See you next week! Closure of the sitting at 1.35 p.m.
