ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching eight draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Law on Administrative Cooperation and the Law on Sport, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law, the Minister of Culture Rein Lang; second, the draft law on the ratification of Articles 1 and 18 of the Treaty establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi; thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on forensics and other related acts, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law amending the Act, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal; fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on state fees and public transport law, the Riigikogu represents the Government in the proceedings of the draft law, the Government is represented by Minister of Economics and Communications Juhan Parts; fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the State Act, the Government is represented by the Minister of State of Internal Affairs Ken-Marti Vabarii, the State Act amending the Law on the Law on the Constitution on the Law on the War on the War on Income Tax and the War on Income Tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U3	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu, before I invite the next person to this remote control, please, let us honor the performers! Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of questioning the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Pevkur, on behalf of eight members of the Central Party Group. Estonia's national HIV and AIDS strategy for 2006-2015 defines HIV and AIDS prevention activities as one of its activities among young people. Within this field of activity, one of the measures is to promote the use of condoms among young people and to ensure that quality condoms are available to the target audience. A study carried out by the Institute for Health Development in 2011 shows that one in three young Estonians considers condoms too expensive. The Estonian HIV-positive Network of NGOs has also drawn attention to the high prices of condoms. In order to reduce these excessively high prices, the Estonian HIV-positive Network has proposed three measures. One possibility is that the rate of VAT on condoms is reduced to 9%, or that the price of condoms is partially reimbursed by the health insurance fund. That is why we are asking Mr Pevkur if he believes that the high price of condoms is a problem and, if so, how he appreciates these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U5	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U6	Good afternoon, Honourable Chairwoman and ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over the draft law, which was based on the need to enable employers to spend tax-free spending on the healthy way of life of workers in order to reduce ill health. It would improve people's health and reduce both employers' and public health insurance costs. I believe that the current special tax on promoting the health of workers can be seen as a brake on the development of companies and employees and the economic growth of the Estonian state. In Estonia, where both the state's budget and human resources are very limited, it is particularly important that we manage reasonably with these limited resources. For a person, however, his health is unrecoverable and invaluable. Therefore, the state should do its utmost to support the maintenance of human health. Companies willing to invest in the health of their workers should not be penalised. At present, the state is unfortunately doing so by punishing companies that support the sport, rehabilitation or other health promotion activities of their employees, because they are accompanied by both income tax and social tax. At the same time, we have tax-free investment by companies in equipment. The fact that expensive machines do not work without a healthy and dedicated worker or woman has been forgotten. However, investment in workers' health is penalised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted nine draft laws and one inquiry. If the drafts meet the requirements of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau will take them to the proceedings within three working days. If an inquiry meets the requirements laid down, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Now I'll give you the messages. First, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 22 March, Estonia presented the views of the European Commission's Green Paper on achieving a more integrated market for card, internet and mobile payments to the European Union Commission and appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 5 April at 4 p.m. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 29 March, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's initiatives on the protection of personal data to the European Commission and appointed a Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and initiatives of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 12 April at 4 p.m. Thirdly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 29 March, Estonia presented its views on the draft regulation of the Council of the European Union on the Statute for a European Foundation (FE) to the Commission for European Union Affairs and appointed a Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 12 April at 4 p.m. Fourthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 29 March, Estonia presented its views on the package of European Union drafts establishing Horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation - for the years 2014 to 2020 to the European Union Commission and having appointed the Committee on Culture and the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the package of Government positions and drafts. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 12 April at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now conducting a presence check. There are 87 comms registered, 14 missing. We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda. A few details have been made on the agenda, so I'll read them out. The Government of the Republic has requested that the order in which today's enquiries are dealt with be changed so that enquiries made to Minister of Culture Rein Lang, currently on the agenda as items 13 and 14, should be treated as items 4 and 5. The Economic Commission has proposed that item No 2 be removed from the agenda of this 10th working week's Wednesday sitting, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic. We shall begin the preparation of the vote on the adoption of the agenda. Can I go to the vote? I propose the approval of the agenda for the tenth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu, with the amendments listed. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one is against or impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U8	We go to today's agenda, we begin to answer questions. First, the inquiry submitted on 15 February this year by Priit Toobali, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Viktor Vassilyev, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Peeter Võsa, Kalev Kallo, Yana Toomi and Ester Tuiksoo concerning politicalised civil society and the Foundation of Civil Society to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip (No 118). In the name of performers, please speak to Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 February, nine central parties handed over an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, entitled 'Politized Civil Society and the Foundation of Civil Society'. More specifically, an inquiry concerns one propaganda page, one electoral material. The distinctive feature of this propaganda page and the electoral material is that, contrary to the usual practice, it is not issued by a party for its own money, but it is issued for public money, i.e. the SA Foundation for Civil Society for Money. Inquiry focuses on the issue of this page and on the publishers, the printing and the place where the page is distributed. There are four questions in the question. We expect the Prime Minister to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U10	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Do you consider it ethically normal that the head of the Civil Society Foundation belongs to the IRL and the Minister of the Interior, whose administration the association operates, belongs to the IRL, and the project manager of the aforementioned newspaper also belongs to the IRL and is also a member of the IRL Group of the Riigikogu? Why do you not see the characteristics of trading with influence here? ' How did you know I couldn't see? But you're right if you knew that! I'll start with the details. The Foundation Civil Society Foundation operates under the responsibility of the Minister for Regional Affairs. The aim of the Foundation for Civil Society is to contribute to strengthening the capacity of non-profit organisations and foundations in the public interest in Estonia in developing civil society and in shaping an environment conducive to active citizenship. The Civil Society Foundation allocates public budget money through calls for proposals that are open on the basis of a programme approved by the Council. The independence of the founder and CEO of the foundation of the grant decision must ensure that the decision-making process is as follows: First, a technical assessment of the submitted project proposals is carried out by the Foundation's Office. Secondly, three independent evaluators carry out the substantive assessment of project proposals. Thirdly, the Civil Society Foundation Council, composed of six representatives of civil society organisations and four representatives of the country, will make a final financing decision on all applications. Two of the representatives of the state are members of the Riigikogu: as representative of the coalition Paul-Eerik Rummo and as representative of the opposition Rainer Vakra. Two representatives of the state are officials: Kaie Koskaru, representative of the Ministry of Finance, and Kaia Sarnet, representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The director of the Foundation has been selected in an open competition. In November 2007, a total of 26 applications were submitted to the Foundation Board member competition. The selection was made by the Minister of Regional Affairs, after consulting the members of the joint committee on the concept of the development of Estonian civil society. In the open competition of a member of the Management Board in November 2011, the Foundation Board unanimously re-elected Agu Liidu as a member of the Management Board. The principles of allocating and evaluating the funding of the Civil Society Foundation are publicly available on the Foundation's website www.kysk.ee. The website also provides an overview of all supported projects. The second question: 'This case gives the public the impression that it is an IRL political ring guarantee. What are you going to do to dispel such an impression? ' In the Civil Society Foundation, there is an opportunity to apply for project grants in open calls for proposals for all non-profit organisations and foundations operating in the public interest. A total of 19 rounds of applications and good ideas have been organised in 2008-2011 through which 273 NGOs projects have been supported. The minutes of the Governing Council meetings shall be public and available online. Among other things, the Civil Society Foundation has funded several civil society projects, which have been carried out by members of different political parties. For example, the project "Eesti Naiste Liit just 90" led by Siiri Oviir is supported. Supported 'Let's do it! ' among the project's carriers there have been people belonging to the Green Party. Very many projects have been supported, such as the Maarja Village Foundation Project 'Organisations Association for Better Intellected People Into Society' and the NGO Corruption-Free Estonia Project 'Implementing the Private Sector Self-Employment System for Corruption in Estonia'. The third question: 'The development of civil society requires politicians to use a certain distance and administrative resources in their narrow party policy interests, which is not inherent in any developed democracy. Since this foundation is created by the Government of the Republic, how do you intend to reform the functioning of this foundation in order to ensure civil society's reputation and balance? 'The foundation of the Foundation for Civil Society is the Government of the Republic, the founding right is exercised by the Ministry of the Interior. According to the Foundation's Statute, the Foundation's activities are planned, managed and supervised by the Foundation's Board of Directors. As far as I know, representatives of civil society organisations, members of the Council and the audits carried out have not called into question the principles of the functioning of the Foundation, the transparency of decision-making processes and democraticism. As far as I know, neither the Council nor the Ministry of the Interior has any intention of reforming a functioning foundation. Question 4: 'How much money does the taxpayer (via the Ministry of Internal Affairs) go to issue the so-called state newspaper Kalamajak from October 2013? " You have asked your question about the newspaper Kalamajake, but I assume that the questioners have thought about the newspaper Kalamajaka. The issue of this leaflet is part of the Telliskivi Society project "Telliskivi Society Forum', which was supported by a call for proposals to support regional civic education projects. In carrying out the project, the Telliskivi Society has taken the Kalamaja Society as its partner, who will issue four copies of a community newspaper with a total budget of EUR 9139 and 37 cents. One number is 8,000. The budget shall include the cost of editing, designing and printing. Your colleague Liisa Pakosta is responsible for managing the work of the editorial board of the community newspaper, who has not been the project's author or the fund applicant. The final date for the project is 30 April 2012. Kalamaja Postbox newspaper Kalamajakas is committed to specific community issues, which unfortunately cannot be said of some other publications found in the mailboxes, such as the Northern Tallinn newspaper and the Capital newspaper. The last two are those where taxpayers' money has clearly been paid for the propaganda of one party. The Foundation for Civil Society has been announced that they are waiting for the authors of the inquiry to become more familiar with the Foundation's work at their own time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U12	Thank you. Now the questions. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for the appreciation of the North Tallinn newspaper and the capital of the newspaper, although this was not requested in the inquiry. But my penguin in the Riigikogu is also my neighbor in Tallinn on Tuvi Street. What do you say you and I, Esther Tuiksoo, would like to publish the newspaper Tuvila, for example, and turn to the Foundation of Civil Society, and you would be a member of the Council of the Foundation of Civil Society, would you fund our project?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U14	If I were the financier, I'd appreciate the applicants' renome. I don't know what it's like right now, but I wouldn't give you any money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U15	Thank you. Please, any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The first question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U16	The second is an inquiry by the Riigikogu members Kadri Simson, Priit Toobali, Lauri Laas, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Viktor Vassilyev, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamme, Aivar Riisalu and Deniss Borodichi on 16 February 2012 to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip (No 119). I ask Kadri Samson to speak on behalf of the speakers of the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We heard from the Prime Minister who responded to the previous inquiry that he tends to evaluate the renome of the members of the Riigikogu here. In this inquiry, we also ask the Prime Minister to assess the promises and renomes of the members of the Riigikogu, this time we ask his own coalition partners. An inquiry concerns an increase in the price of water. According to Statistics Estonia, our Prime Minister loves statistics and statistics, Estonia has been one of the fastest price increases in the European Union. The administratively regulated prices of goods and services, i.e. those which are directly due to the law, and the price increases that have hit the people of Estonia as a result of the activities of the legislator, play a pretty big role in this. Compared to January 2011, the index was most affected by housing expenditure, which accounted for more than 40% of the total increase. At the same time, we all remember that the Government Union and, above all, the smaller partner of the Government Union, IRL, promised that they would take home expenses under control. In fact, in 2012, we can see that it has not proved true that the 2010 commitments have already been fulfilled. Urmas Reinsalu, current chairman of the IRL, claimed on 9 March 2010 that the law on the restraint of monopolies must be passed in the Riigikogu, because it sets very simple and specific objectives: to limit the price increase on district heating, which concerns gas supply and which concerns water monopolies. Prices have increased in all three sectors. We therefore want an assessment from the Prime Minister. Prior to the adoption of this law, the risks were highlighted, in particular that in view of the election result in Tallinn, political parties belonging to the government coalition have adopted a law that puts several smaller local governments at risk. As the rate of return of companies is prescribed in the Act, it increases the price of water in smaller settlements in Estonia, contrary to the slogan. That's what happened. After the adoption of the Monopoly Price Restrictions Act, AS Tartu Veevähk has increased the consumer price of water by 30,37%, Sillamäe AS raised the consumer price of water by 17.5%, Haapsalu Veevärk by 19.5%, Raven OÜ, which operates in Raasiku and Aruküla village in Harjumaa, 93,71%, Kose OÜ 26,62%, AS Kärdla Veevärk by 18,10%, OÜ Pandivere Vesi, located in Väike-Maarja rural municipality, 19,36%. The only water company that has fallen under this law has been AS Viimsi Vesi. Having adopted such a pre-election law, which has actually led to a situation where water companies are even pressured to increase their profit rate or rate of return, those political parties who praised such false rumours and courage have to answer whether there is a failure in the law and, if so, what can be done to eliminate this cull. Consequently, the signatories have five questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U18	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U19	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Which monopolies have prices fallen after one water company in Viimsi? Was this law needed to reduce the home expenses of wealthier Viimsi? ' The changes introduced by the Law on price restrictions for monopolies, which entered into force on 1 November 2010, in the Law on public water supply and sewerage, were due to the need to ensure cost-based prices for public services provided by undertakings in a monopoly position. This means that there has been a ban on extremely high profitability; prices must be justified by costs. The Competition Authority is the most competent price analyst. The aim of the concentration of price regulation in the Competition Authority is to increase efficiency due to the lack of experience and opportunity for local authorities to compare with other undertakings. I will take Tallinn Vee, for example. The Estonian Competition Authority carried out a monitoring procedure regarding the current prices of water services in Tallinn Vesi, which led the Estonian Competition Authority to issue an injunction to AS Tallinna Vesi on 10 October 2011. The problem is known to be that the return on investments of AS Tallinna Vesi is about twice as high as it is considered reasonable for companies in a monopoly position. In this respect, I recall that AS Tallinna Vesi has a large ownership of 34.6% of the city of Tallinn, represented by Toivo Tootsen, Priit Lello and Rein Ratas. To date, this injunction has been challenged by the Administrative Court. The price of Viimsi Water for residents as of 1 July 2010 was one of the most expensive in Estonia, followed by Lihula Vee. In 2010, the Competition Authority started its own-initiative monitoring of the price of the water service of AS Viimsi Vesi. As a result of the procedure, AS Viimsi Vesi had to coordinate the new price with the Competition Authority. Indeed, the weighted average price of water services for consumers, coordinated by the Competition Authority, decreased by 9,4%. The second question: 'Why did you consider it possible and ethically appropriate that the draft law proposed by 2010 as the coalition partner and head of government of the IRL be veiled by empty promises? An all-Estonian increase in the price of water today has been given to the argument as the best proof. ' The Prime Minister does not censor the speeches made by members of the Riigikogu on the floor of the Riigikogu. I would like to note, however, that the price regulation of water services and other services of companies in a monopoly position has been developed in a reasonable direction in Estonia. The prices of these services are coordinated by the Competition Authority on the basis of strict economic criteria, i.e. essentially the amount of reasonable costs for the provision of these services, which the consumer's remuneration must allow to cover. On the other hand, it must be ensured that monopoly companies do not make excessive, unjustified profits. The fact that the same rules are now applied across Estonia to determine the price of water for all major water companies is logical. The price of water in one municipality or another must not be a day-to-day issue. It is extremely sad that some members of the Central Party Group do not consider the apolitical control over the prices of the monopoly public service to be reasonable. The third question: 'Of the above mentioned price increases, the consumer was hit hardest by the increase in the price of the Tartu Waterworks AS next to Raven OÜ, where the price was increased sharply and 30% at a time. Tartu City Council will never be able to participate in pricing under this law again. Why didn't you intervene as Head of Government and try to prove that a centralised water pricing policy, which is administratively centralised, is a technical change in nature, opaque to the public and untrusted against local governments and local residents? ' I am studying here the explanatory memorandum to the Antitrust Act, according to which a change in the regulation of the levying of the price of water services was necessary in order to get the price of water services out of political pressure. At national level, the activities of water undertakings and their costs can be assessed on a uniform basis, ensuring a more equal treatment of the population, regardless of the region. Since the price of water services was generally determined by local government councils so far, the increase or decrease in the price of water services often depended on political considerations and, in some cases, the economic performance of the water company was not legally assessed. Moreover, the price of water services is one of the fundamentals of the management of a water company and the established prices, which do not cover the justified operating costs of a water undertaking, not to mention depreciation of fixed assets, do not guarantee the sustainability of water undertakings and of the entire water management. Large investments in the construction and renovation of sewage treatment plants and public water supply and sewerage pipelines, which are currently carried out at the expense of European Union and national money, have no social or environmental value if the built systems cannot be amortised. ' Speaking of the reasons for the price increase, we must not forget the large-scale investments made in the water management of Estonia in recent years with the support of the European Union Cohesion Fund. This money has come to Estonia as a state, not to one or another local government separately. Due to the involvement of the European Union Cohesion Fund, water service prices would have increased even if the Law on public water supply and sewerage had remained unchanged. This means that local authorities themselves should have raised the prices of water services in order to apply for support from the European Union's Cohesion Fund. Estonia's situation with regard to water services is similar to that of the so-called new Länder in Germany until the change. In the meantime, I am thinking of the Federal States belonging to the German DV, where the price of water is now much higher than in the old Länder where water systems have been constantly invested, due to investments that have not been made during the period of socialism. In this respect, I would add that, as a result of these legislative changes, the Competition Authority has now examined nine price applications, which have also been referred to in the inquiry. This is in addition to the above three own-initiative procedures of the Competition Authority. Question 4: "Why, under government leadership or with the help of the government, has home expenses increased steadily in recent years? What is happening in the global economy would not be an argument. " That question was essentially answered in the answer to the previous question. However, if you think that only with government leadership or aid, home expenses have increased steadily, then it should be noted that in this respect the Estonian record is still in the hands of the government led by Edgar Savisaare. During its last month of office, i.e. January 1992, consumer prices increased by 87,5% on average and almost doubled. Question 5: 'Competition has put pressure on water companies to increase the rate of return to 8% instead of 4% in price negotiations under the Monopoly Price Restrictions Act, which would have raised the price of water in some places up to 100%. Why does a national regulator put pressure on local water companies in a situation where the socio-economic environment is deteriorating to earn more profits? 'The Competition Authority does not pressure water undertakings to reflect all the reasonable profit that Article 14 (2) (5) of the Law on public water supply and sewerage allows in the price of the water service. Section 3.2.8 of the Price Application Guide published on the website of the Competition Authority states that the amount of reasonable profit included in the price of water services must not exceed the amount of reasonable return calculated in accordance with point 6 of the Guide'Guidelines for calculating the price of water services'. It is therefore very clear that a reasonable return does not have to be applied for at a maximum rate at the price of the water service. Since these are incumbents where there is no competition, it is also the responsibility of the regulator to require the company to try to save costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U20	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U21	Thank you. Prime Minister! IRL tried to correct its past mistakes in privatising Tallinn Water with the Monopoly Control Act. The goal in itself is to admit it if you have made a mistake. The current Tallinn City Authority has no legal right to cancel or invalidate the privatisation agreement 13 years ago. But with the correction of this mistake in Tallinn, all water users in small towns will also receive the bill. My question to you is: how will this court case or the subsequent amendment of the laws that are trying to repeal the privatisation agreement, the investment climate in Estonia, affect? How does this affect Estonia's reputation? And have you been approached by representatives of some Western embassy who ask the Estonian state to act responsibly and comply with the treaties?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U22	First of all, in the case of Tallinna Vee, this is not a privatisation transaction. One local authority has decided to sell all or part of its assets. Such an undertaking is not called privatisation in Estonia and so the transaction is not subject to legislative acts governing privatisation. The answer to the question of whether I have been approached by foreign representatives is no: it is not. The investment climate is well affected when a country acts as a rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U23	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! The fact that the ambassadors of the Centre Party are asking you to evaluate the members of the Riigikogu is probably some very clever provocation on their part. But speaking of which, one of our colleagues, who has been very enthusiastic about this subject, has not signed the question. This, of course, is Heimar Lenk, who, some time ago, was on the edge of the bathtub and said that we were keeping the price of water under control. Did those interviewers who, as I said, are not Heimar Lenk and who ask you for an assessment of the activities of members of the Riigikogu ask how to evaluate the activities of my colleague Leng? Are these promises then fulfilled or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U25	They didn't ask about Heimar Leng. I hear Heimar Lenk didn't promise more than anyone else who prepared this bill. Heimar Lenk also promised to keep the price of water under control, but he failed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U26	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U27	Thank you. Prime Minister! As Prime Minister, who has been sent by Tartu's evil dogs, and whose three-letter body has given its blessing to the occupations held during the former regime, can I ask you an honest answer? Who were the parties who stood up for the sale of the majority shares of Tallinn Water in 2000? The same sale has certainly contributed greatly to the increase in water prices. Who were the parties that stood up for this at the Tallinn Council at the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U28	The Centre Party must have played a significant role there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U29	Thank you. No further questions for the Prime Minister. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U30	We come to the next question, which is the inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Heimar Leng, Valeri Korb, Ester Tuiksoo, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa and Marika Tuus-Laul on 23 February 2012 regarding the Government's action plan in the event of a crisis (No 127). This is addressed to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. On behalf of the speakers, please speak to Heimar Leng!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U31	Since the Prime Minister has not answered the previous question, I will take this opportunity to answer for him. While Tallinn's water was relentlessly privatised to Tallinn's townspeople, the Fatherland Union and the Prime Minister's party Reform Party were in power in Tallinn. I was then a member of the city council, and I can tell Taavi Rõivas that this movement was led by Ants Leemets, the deputy mayor, with whom it was impossible to agree some kind of human politics in this privatisation. We really couldn't do anything and Tallinn Water was privatized. Only it was appreciated by the people, and these parties were not so strongly elected to power. That's how it was born.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U32	Good performer, please, let's get to the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U33	I've long been a respectable chairwoman, and I've come to the point of questioning. Here comes our question about the activities of the Government of the Republic, represented today in this Chamber by Prime Minister Mr Ansip. If this went so wrong with Tallinn Vee, we have a great concern about the government's ability to deal with other problems in Estonia. In fact, when it is said that this year comes or has come or is coming in a different way, winter also came to the government of the Republic of Estonia in a different way this year. For the first time in 20 years, the Andrus Ansip government had to face a strong protest movement in Estonia, especially in Tallinn, aimed at increasing the cost of living and increasing the cost of living. The movement began with protests against ACTA and ended with a very powerful strike by teachers, which almost overcame the general strike. That is why I will read the text of this inquiry in part, that we have concerns about whether the future Ansip government will be able to cope with the problems that may arise in relation to possible subsequent strikes in Estonia. This is how we write Mr. Ansip in our inquiry. Students have shown dissatisfaction with the new higher education reform, teachers, the sister's association and trade unions are threatening new stagnations. The doctors are already talking about very high wage demands and are promising to strike. The rescuers are not satisfied with the closure of the commandos and the pension bill, the energetics and miners have allowed the work of Estonian power stations to be disrupted by extensive strikes through the media. All of this could lead to disruption or disruption of the provision of vital services in the country, perhaps even economic chaos. The leader of the independent trade union of miners and energetics has referred to Radio 4 in an interview that if the Estonian authorities do not listen to the voices of protesters, these trade unions can turn to European countries and Russia with the proposal to block Estonian exports. So these questions are pretty serious. We would like an answer from the Prime Minister as to whether our government is prepared for the extreme situations that may arise. Thanks to the teachers' strike, the strikers have had a good experience. I believe that the general strike across Estonia is not very far away. We have four questions here, which the Prime Minister must kindly answer. Then we'll find out what's waiting for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U34	Thank you. I ask for a chair to be answered by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U35	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'What is the plan of the Government of the Republic in extreme situations? " The availability and functioning of critical services are regulated by the Emergency Act, both in normal circumstances and in the extreme circumstances referred to by questioners. According to the Emergency Act, institutions providing vital services-companies prepare risk analyses and business continuity plans, which will also be implemented when the need arises. Risk analyses shall also address situations which may arise in relation to strikes and downtime. The business continuity plans state how the service provider must ensure its service even if strikes or downtimes really occur. The Emergency Act mentions 43 vital services and all of them have been subject to risk analyses and performance plans in 2011, but their exact content is covered by a restriction on internal use under § 35 (1) 181 of the Public Information Act. The second question: 'How does the Government of the Republic intend to act if the availability of public services is not possible in connection with inactivity across the country? ' The availability of public and vital services is and will be guaranteed in all circumstances. No strike or stop can prevent a rescue car from leaving the crash site, an ambulance from reaching the person in need, or policemen from responding to a crime or disorder. One measure, which must ensure the availability of such services, provides for a collective labour dispute resolution law which prohibits strikes in government agencies, other state bodies, local authorities, defence forces and national defence organisations, courts and rescue agencies. Critical service providers must also ensure that critical service functions in situations other than normal situations, including during strikes. The third question: 'What effects can such incidents have on the Estonian economy? " The government does not currently see the risk of serious damage to the Estonian economy, as the continuity of vital services must be ensured even in case of possible downtime. The fourth question: "What impact do you think job breaks can have on industrial companies and private consumers? ' If companies and institutions are able to ensure essential critical activities necessary for the provision of a service or production during the period of inactivity, the impact of inactivity on private consumers and society as a whole will be limited, but this impact will be negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U36	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have a question. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U37	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will now ask a more specific question. After the Bronze Night, I remember, it must have been bought by one or two water cannons that are waiting for new events now, if they break out. What about the energy question? We remember that even during this strike, there were men who promised to stop or reduce power generation. Has any concrete steps been taken to prevent this? I mean, Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U38	A good questioner must also know that the desire expressed by the obviously incompetent manager of energy engineers to reduce production is illegal. The court has also made such an assessment of someone's unreasonable plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U39	Thank you. Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The third item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U40	Let's go to the fourth question. This is an inquiry by Priit Toobali, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Reps, Inara Luigas, Lauri Laas, Viktor Vassilyev, Valeri Korbi, Aadu Musta, Vladimir Velman, Yana Toomi, Enn Esemaa and Tarmo Tamme to the Minister of Culture Rein Lang on 23 February. I ask for the chair of Priit Toobali on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On February 23, s. I, along with 11 members of the Central Party Group, presented an inquiry to Minister of Culture Rein Lang on the value of cultural workers. Until 2007, all government coalition agreements have formulated the need for equal wage increases for educational and cultural workers. In recent years, instead of rising, the wages of cultural workers have fallen. While the average salary of cultural workers in 2009 was EEK 11169, in 2010 it fell to EEK 9907. The Government of the Republic did not agree with the increase in the salary of cultural workers working in state institutions at the meeting of the Central Organisation of Labour Associations in the Ministry of Culture in autumn 2011, the representatives of TALO and the government delegation. Despite low wages, the proportion of cultural workers with higher education in Estonia is the first in the European Union. Of all people working in the cultural field, 64% have higher education. Thus, Estonian cultural workers are intellectuals with higher education, whose retention in Estonia should be one of the aims of the state. The analysis of the composition of state agencies and the dynamics of wage costs in 2007-2008, prepared by the Ministry of Finance, shows that the average wage of employees in the Ministry of Culture's area of government was lower than that of other ministries. Qualified and long-term employees of theatres, concerts and recreational institutions, museums and libraries have been underfunded for years. Thus, employees in the cultural sector are forced to change jobs or look for more profitable income in the private sector or even outside Estonia, abroad. Ago Tuuling, Chairman of the Management Board of TALO, has pointed out that the chronic underfunding of intellectuals and the lack of consideration of their education and competence on the labour market reduce Estonia's competitiveness. With regard to this problem, the questioners have five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U42	Thank you. Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Why are highly educated and experienced cultural workers still underfunded? ' We could, of course, also talk about cultural workers being employed by the state, by foundations and companies established by the state, but a very large part of them are paid by local governments. So if you ask why a large number of cultural workers in Tallinn, for example, are underfunded, then the address could be Edgar Savisaar, Mayor of Tallinn. Indeed, the current minimum wage for cultural workers is currently at the level of 2008 for the country. The agreed minimum wage rate has remained unchanged since 2008, as there has been insufficient money in the budget to increase wage costs. The agreement of 13 September 2010 is currently in force, according to which the parties will make every effort to ensure that the minimum monthly remuneration of a full-time cultural worker in a post requiring higher education and a theatre employee with special vocational training is EUR 543,25. However, the average actual salary of highly educated cultural workers is on average 40% higher than the minimum wage agreed with the TALO. Of course, it's different from one field to another. Looking at the medium-term changes in the wages of cultural workers, it should be noted that their wages have increased, although of course not as much as they would like. The average salary of cultural workers in 2010 increased by 40% compared to 2006. At the same time, Estonia's average wage increase has been about 32%, or somewhat less. It is true that in times of economic downturn, the increase has been considerably lower, while in 2010 the average wage of cultural workers rose by 3.6%. The second question: 'Do you think that an increase in the pay of cultural workers could not be seen today as an investment in the future rather than as an additional cost? ' Again, I suggest you ask Edgar Savisaar the same question. If we want people who care about and develop Estonian culture to work in our cultural sphere, then of course people must be rewarded. Of course, if the questioners so desire, they can call it an investment in the future. But this investment will inevitably require additional resources. The maximum amount sent by the Ministry of Finance to the cultural budget for 2013 does not currently include any higher wage costs. Some examples, too. The 5% wage increase of cultural workers who receive public salaries would be 2.5 million euros, while the 20% wage increase would be 7.7 million euros extra. The third question: 'How do you think cultural workers should cope with price increases if their wages do not rise? ' Again, I suggest you ask the same question to Edgar Savisaar. However, as I said in my answer to the first question of inquiry, the average gross wage of cultural workers has risen by 40% between 2006 and 2010. The average gross wage of cultural workers was EUR 557 in 2006 and EUR 780 in 2010. However, the agreed minimum wage level, which is indeed currently at the 2008 level, has not risen. The Ministry of Culture argued for the fact that during the crisis years, when wages were generally reduced, the salary of cultural workers with higher education was not generally reduced. Looking at the changes in the wages of cultural workers in recent years, the average wage of cultural workers rose by 3.6% in 2010, while the average wage of Estonia rose by 1%. And, of course, it is difficult for many others, not just cultural workers, too. Question 4: 'When will the Ministry of Culture begin to value cultural workers and raise their salaries? ' I suggest you ask the same question to Edgar Savisaar. But the Ministry of Culture values the work of cultural workers. As I have just said, the Ministry of Culture also stood firm during the recession to ensure that the wages of cultural workers are not reduced. If we want people working in our cultural field to professionally develop and preserve Estonian culture for our future generations and to do their job with their hearts, then of course a decent salary must be paid for it. I agree that the wages of cultural workers need to be increased. This is also a priority for the 2013 budget negotiations of the Ministry of Culture. Question 5: 'The National Culture Act has been dealing with different working groups for more than ten years, but so far it has still not been adopted. In what form and in which form does the Ministry of Culture intend to develop a law on folk culture and what guarantees does it create for cultural workers? ' The work plan for 2012 of the Ministry of Culture, the draft work plan for 2013 and the development plan of the Ministry of Culture for the years 2012 to 2015 do not provide for the development of the People's Culture Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U44	Thank you. We'll get to the questions. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! If I had asked these first four questions to Edgar Savisaar, Edgar Savisaar would have been in a much better position than you on the remote, because the cultural workers paid by the city of Tallinn earn more than the cultural workers paid by the state. But my question is: right now, a freelance cultural worker pays social tax on his salary, but he does not have the right to health insurance. What is your position as Minister of Culture, how should the problem of freelance health insurance be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U46	I will answer the question here with the question: what is a freelance cultural worker? There are freelance creative creatures, but not cultural workers in the sense you see. But we are dealing with this issue very intensively now, and at the very nearest moment we will also propose one solution. At the same time, I think the problem is much bigger. Is the whole logic of paying social tax, that the employer must necessarily pay it every month from 1/12 annual income, reasonable? But that's a whole other subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U47	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U48	Dear Minister of Culture, I wonder why you are so concerned about the relationship between our good colleagues in the Centre Party and good Edgar Savisaar. Do you think without your advice, they're not gonna ask Edgar Savisaar any more?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U49	I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U50	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Has the Ministry of Culture carried out a study on the age structure of cultural workers? At one point, parents may retire and younger ones do not come to work in this area because the pay is very low. Do you see such a danger?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U52	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Indeed, if there is a generational change in some institutions, whether it is a museum or another state institution or foundation, it is clear that if you want to hire a young person to replace a outgoing older worker, the wage negotiations are very difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U53	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I will continue from there that Mr Allik was concerned about the frequent reference to the mayor of Tallinn. The question was this: when will the Ministry of Culture begin to value cultural workers and raise their salaries? Your answer was, ask Edgar Savisaar. Does Edgar Savisaar now advise the Minister of Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U55	God save it! Yeah, here I'm going to take the liberty of apologizing for it, I definitely shouldn't have formulated it like that. Edgar Savisaar does not advise the Ministry of Culture. And the Ministry of Culture values cultural workers all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U56	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I understand you can handle it in Tallinn. But I ask: how will the remaining 225 Estonian municipalities manage? After all, the income base of the municipalities depends essentially on the wishes of the central government to finance the municipalities. It is known that the municipal wallet is empty. How do you think local governments could raise the salaries of cultural workers equally with the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U58	Let's be honest now! You are asking about cultural workers, but the wage costs of cultural workers are rather marginal in the total cost of the municipality, and it is still a question of will to keep these salaries high or not. I admit that certain municipalities have unprecedented cultural institutions, I mean cultural houses built in their own time. In these cases, of course, I sense that the talk about Põlva is, of course, very difficult to maintain, but it is not just a problem of salary costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U59	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U60	Thank you. Dear Minister of Culture, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has said in the Riigikogu's speech at Question Time that in order to eliminate dissatisfaction, it is necessary to look inside the field for ways to make more effective use of the money. What do you think, as Minister of Culture, are the places where cultural savings can be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U61	I'm not afraid to answer for all the local governments here. As I have repeatedly tried to explain today: there are a lot more cultural workers on the payroll of local governments than they are on the payroll of the central government. It is true, of course, that the central government is no longer able to sum up anything funny in cultural institutions. The last one has pulled together everything that's been pulled together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U62	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Culture Rein Lang! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The fourth inquiry has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U63	Next is Enn Eesmaa, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mihhail Stalnukhin, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korbi, Deniss Borodichi, Vladimir Velman and Peeter Võsa, an inquiry into the lying of the Minister of Agriculture on 19 March 2012 on the Estonian National Broadcasting programme "The Spectator" (No 139). This is addressed to Minister of Culture Rein Lang. In the name of the heirs, Priit Toobal comes from the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Culture Rein Lang. I also recommend that Rein Lang listen to the introduction to the inquiry if he has not read it before. In the previous inquiry concerning the salaries of cultural workers, it was clearly stated, and I also repeatedly emphasised in the remote control that the issue concerns cultural workers on the state's payroll. I ask Rein Lang to listen carefully to what this question contains, which is asked for in detail. On March 8, the Spectator programme accused Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder of lying. Sufficient evidence was used and both parties were given the floor. After that, one politician had the opportunity either to resign or to sue the accusers of public speaking to the council. Neither of these options was taken up by the Minister for Agriculture. In the past, the Minister of Agriculture has accused the Riigikogu of the Spectator's programme of toxicity and has argued that he would rather ban such programmes. Attacking public television in this way is strange, inappropriate in a democratic country. The role of public media in small nation states such as Estonia is particularly important. In markets where private media are increasingly commercialised, public broadcasting must be a reliable source of information, whose task is also to protect a unique national culture and the language of their country. Failure to do so threatens both the preservation of national culture and the democratic development of society. It is very difficult to defend this position if we tolerate lying or false accusations on public television. We must do our utmost to ensure that the confidence of national broadcasting remains at the highest level. Since national broadcasting is the responsibility of the Minister of Culture in the government, this question and three questions are addressed to Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. We're waiting for answers!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U65	Thank you. Rein Lang, Minister of Culture of the Speaker's Board, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U66	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable questioners! I'll get it. The first question: 'How do you comment as Minister of Culture on the claim that ETV's 'Spectator' is poisoning the Estonian people? Are there any other thinkers in today's government? ' At this point, I must remind the honourable questioners that Estonian Public Broadcasting is an independent public entity, which is independent in the production and transmission of its programmes, programmes and other media services pursuant to Article 3 of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. There is also an independent Minister for Agriculture in his personal statements, and I would like to ask him himself about his comments. However, if the questioners consider that the Spectator programme has balanced or transcended good taste at the border, then there is an opportunity to contact an ethical advisor for national broadcasting, one of whose task is to review complaints about the content of the programme or programme. The second question: 'The credibility of the Healthy Government is under attack when a member of the cabinet is accused of lying and the accused does not hesitate to refute this claim. Such arrogance is a kind of precedent in Estonian political culture. What suggestions would you make to the Minister for Agriculture to restore the credibility of a member of the government to the public? ' Thank you for the question, but the role of the Minister of Culture in the government is to promote and govern Estonian cultural policy, not to advise members of the government in their communication with the public. The third question: 'What political attempts can now be made by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to get national broadcasting under its firmer control? Can the position of chairman of national broadcasting now be re-decided on a political basis in the light of this case? " Yes, it is said that repetition is the mother of wisdom. Let it be said again: Estonian Public Broadcasting is an independent public entity whose highest management body is the National Broadcasting Council. The composition of the council is confirmed by the Riigikogu, which is also by you, honourable heirs. Currently, Hagi Šein, Rain Tamm, Ela Tomson, Jaak Allik, Igor Gräzin, Priit Sibul and Priit Toobal are members of the National Broadcasting Council, who are currently asking these questions and who, as I read, is one of the initiators of the inquiry. If Priit Toobal has information that someone is trying to control the Estonian National Broadcasting, he should comment on it himself. I don't know how to comment on such claims. As regards the election of the chairman of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Board, according to the law, this choice is made by the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, including you, Mr Toobal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U67	Thank you. Priit Toobal would like to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm afraid it doesn't match your words and actions. You spoke beautifully here that national broadcasting is independent, that it is run by the elected board of directors of the Council and the Council. But if so, why did you ban it in 2007 in the role of another minister, right there on "The Spectator" for one television interview?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U69	Oh, my God! Where do you get the information that I told you not to?! If you also draw information from the Evening Week or Midweek under the leadership of the State, then it is very bad!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U70	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lang! Please tell me, don't you really see a certain, I don't know, ethical dilemma here? There is a national broadcasting that blames a member of the government. Whether it's right or not, we don't know, but a member of the government doesn't even pay attention. Do you think that's normal? This isn't the Evening Paper or Midweek.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U72	I have a proposal to remain within the framework of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. If you have any questions for the Minister for Agriculture, ask the Minister for Agriculture. I am certainly not going to comment on anyone's statements in the media, whether it is private or public.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U73	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, As far as I know, the government is united. Knowing you a little bit, I think you asked your colleague the Minister for Agriculture what he thought of this matter. I wonder: what did the Minister for Agriculture, as a colleague, tell you about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U75	Putting my hand to my heart, I assure you, I have not asked, I have not spoken to him on this matter. I don't know anything about this whole Aardla polder either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U76	There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Culture Rein Lang! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The fifth item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U77	The next item is the report by Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luise, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Kalev Kallo, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Reps and Jüri Ratas on the impact of the tax exemption on reinvested profits (No 121). This is addressed to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I'm asking for Kadri Samson's speech chair on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry concerns the impact of the exemption of reinvested profits on the Estonian budget and, more generally, on our economy as a whole. As many of us know, in 2000 important changes took place in the Estonian tax system. One of these changes was the exemption from income tax of reinvested profits. The idea of losing the substance of corporation tax to boost the economy is not new, as the whole off-shore system is basically based on the same idea. This macroeconomic concept is based on the desire to keep more profits at the disposal of companies by reducing corporate tax, in the hope that most of it will be reinvested. Together with the expected influx of foreign capital into a country with lower tax rates, it must create good conditions for creating new jobs and for the rapid growth of GDP. Today, however, it has actually been the case that this profit is often not reinvested here in Estonia, but is given to the parent company as an unlimited loan. There is a trend in Estonia that foreign companies prefer to take out profits earned in Estonia as a loan rather than as a dividend, so it is possible to postpone the obligation to pay income tax for an indefinite period. The inquiry is based on one of the Äripäev's numbers, for example Swedbank, who paid 750 million euros in 2010 without paying taxes, which is probably the biggest payment in Estonia's history. According to Äripäev, many companies in Tallinn Stock Exchange used a similar scheme last year. By claiming this, we rely not only on data from the press, but also on information from Eesti Pank. The official data of Eesti Pank say that the total profit of the banks operating in Estonia during the 2003-2010 period was 14.3 billion Estonian kroons, but only 312 million kroons were paid from it. If the tax rate were 20%, almost ten times more would have been paid, i.e. 2.8 billion kroons. According to Statistics Estonia, the estimated total profit of the companies during the 2003-2010 period has been EEK 300 billion. The income tax on legal persons has been collected at EEK 25,5 billion, but could have been collected more than twice as much as EEK 60 billion. This is the cost of about ten Tallinn-Tartu motorways or Saaremaa bridges. Of course, this amount has not been excluded from taxation in Estonia; some of the untaxed profits have gone into consumption and collected in the form of other taxes, but in any case much of this money has also arrived abroad free of tax. Looking at the trend of recent years, our balance of payments shows a very rapid outflow of funds from the country in 2009 and 2011. In the light of these facts, the questioners have four questions for the Minister of Finance, which I am not going to read out, it is better for the Minister to read them himself and then answer them immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U79	Thank you. I beg the Secretary of Finance, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U80	Thank you. I'd be happy to talk about it all the time, with a clear conscience. But having looked at these questions and listened to this introduction, I must first disprove a few cynical statements. First of all, if you throw a rock into Swedbank's cabbage fence, you'll hurt them. If you had read this article on Äripäev, there were answers. Swedbank has brought too much money in here, and what he has taken out as a profit was taxed in Latvia and Lithuania. This was a structural change, which was a change in the subordination of Latvian and Lithuanian subsidiaries, and Estonia is not fit if it wants to comply with tax treaties and good practice, to go twice to tax the profits of Latvia and Lithuania. You also said that our tax system is the same as our off-shore system. It's, I'm saying, a deliberate mistake. You just can't miss it. This has long been a debate, and in your presence. The Off-shores basically have a different system. Off-shores offer special treatment to foreign companies and do not provide information on what happens on the off-shores. These are the tax ends that are hidden in the water that they trade internationally. There is nothing like this in Estonia, we have equal treatment of residents and non-residents, and the accounts are completely public. And if you have compared these data here on what is being received or should have been received, I will comment more precisely by answering these questions, but one of the most brilliant things about our tax system is that companies became public. They no longer had a strong incentive to deceive the country and their declared profits increased sharply. The state didn't go after that profit at the moment they didn't want to get attacked. But let's take it by question. First of all, in which European countries have reinvested profits still been exempt from income tax? Fortunately, in such a clean and understandable way, there is nowhere else that gives us a competitive advantage. However, all countries use various tax exemptions and investment reserves for the same purpose. But they have not got rid of their complex tax systems, although they could be warmly advised to have the same system in order to achieve the same result. When it comes to effective corporate tax burden, it is not necessarily less, they cannot claim that they receive much more money than business income. I do not currently have the statistics available on this issue, but in Germany, for example, the effective tax burden on corporate income is lower. If it is thought that Germany would want to harass us about this system, it is not true. However, I have read such statements repeatedly in the media. So the comparison is relatively arbitrary and the systems are different, ours is clear and honest. Secondly, 'The idea of exempting reinvested profits from income tax should be to revitalise the Estonian economy', that is exactly what it is! By the way, "but today is valid" is valid tomorrow and last night it was applicable to the tax-free profits that the parent company can withdraw in unlimited amounts as a loan. In whose interest is such an opportunity made the Estonian tax system? " First of all, lending is a normal part of economic activity. All tax systems allow companies to borrow. All tax systems are also tax optimisation, including through lending. In the case of our tax system, the rule is that the loan must be granted only on market terms, otherwise it will not be considered a cost and will be taxed. So that's how Estonia gets that profit. Not the granting of the loan itself, but the market conditions are this feature. And if you want to complain about lending and, in particular, about banks, Estonian banks have received much more loans from abroad than they have left. Even too much of the problem has been that their lending activities have, figuratively speaking, been too active here because of savings made by Swedish pensioners. This was the main generator of our real estate and general economic bubble. The third question: 'How much tax revenue is left in the state budget due to the exemption from income tax on invested profits? Has it been analysed at ministerial level? " But you had some sums already calculated! We, of course, have analyzed it, and it's not a secret either, I believe you can find it on the website of the Ministry of Finance. I haven't checked myself, but I think it's still there. In cooperation with Praxis and the University of Tartu, the study "The impact of non-taxation of undistributed profits on investments and economic development" was even completed in 2010. You'll get a nice answer to your questions from there. Now the tax revenue from the non-recoverable. The aim of the current tax system is to ease the burden on companies and, more importantly, to ease it by preventing the state from interfering with the economic activity of the company at the moment when it has investment plans. Current taxation of profits is a constant loss of money, the system we use is to give the company the opportunity to choose the time of taxation. When comparing untaxed profits on an ongoing basis, Praxis and the University of Tartu valued the matter so that the amount of unpaid income tax could be 2.5 billion, but it is a deferred obligation, not a cancelled obligation. Companies have simply been able to plan their work more freely and invest more freely. And on the other side, as you mentioned nicely, there are other taxes. It is very difficult to estimate it accurately, but they have proposed additional VAT and excise duties and personal income tax receipts, thanks to this tax exemption of EEK 0.7 to EEK 2.4 billion. If you look at the cap, it is practically the same amount as the amount of corporation tax that has not yet been collected. In their conclusions, they have highlighted the importance of the positive impact of this measure on investment and the liquidity of the company, which was particularly important in 2010, when companies started to recover from the severe economic crisis. One thing is that the tax system allowed companies to survive the crisis more painfully. As you know, bankruptcies were not so much during the crisis. Our labour market proved to be flexible, our tax system was very favourable in order for companies to be able to survive difficult times. This is, of course, also a prerequisite for structural changes in the economy. The University and Praxis also mentioned the positive impact on corporate productivity and GDP. What else are we supposed to want? As I said here at the beginning, the accounting effect was considered important. With such a fair system, companies made their real economic situation public. There was no reason to hide it. And if you have been open and honest, it will, of course, help companies to raise loan capital and also foreign investment. Just as private individuals can obtain loans more easily on an honest salary. It can also be said with certainty that this whole system has had a very good impact on Estonia's reputation as an investment environment. If we listen to foreign investors and we also look at the surveys that have been carried out among them on this subject, they will always highlight the Estonian tax system as an important factor. Why bring the money here? Why invest here? One important reason is our income tax system, both at individual and corporate level. In Estonia, the creation of high-paid jobs is not penalised by progressive income tax, the higher salaries of managers are not hunted and it is possible to get drivers here under better conditions. And, of course, in the case of the tax system, it is very important that we never accurately calculate which revenue-costs ♪ this is the issue of the sign and the business climate. I'm saying that if we had less malice about this system, its effectiveness would be even greater. From the very beginning, we sensed that certain parties did not participate in bringing about the charm of this system, even though they were from this point of view in important occupations. I guess the investors had it before, and it's still a question of how long this system will be kept, and suddenly you'll screw it up. Investment is known to be a long-term activity. Question 4: 'The company's reinvested profits have been tax-free in Estonia for 12 years. During this period, there have been clear loopholes in the law that are being exploited and are not in the interests of the Estonian state. Is and when are they planned to be corrected at the level of the law? 'It's such a subjective assessment. I've already rejected one. It's not like borrowing isn't a legal hole, it's economic freedom. That's all the holes you've brought up. I still bring one of these every couple of years. At one point, companies learned profit by reducing their equity capital. And when this activity became quite widespread, we made a legislative amendment that would tax any profit. This was clearly the kind of channel that needed to be responded to. Other minor changes have also been made, but they have not been very substantial, but we are constantly analysing with the tax authorities how the system can be improved. One area where we have improved it is now banking. Not in the case of Swedbank, but in the case of branches, it was still too easy to postpone the profit tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U81	Thank you. Now the questions. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U82	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I'm gonna grab that last sentence right now that it was too easy to postpone a profit tax in the banking sector so far. I want to focus on banking. You mentioned that a lot of loan money has come into circulation in Estonia. It's true, it's borrowed. But this loan money doesn't count as a profit for the banks; profits are still earned through fees, transfer fees, higher interest, etc. This profit was 14 billion kroons for the banks operating in Estonia during the years 2003 to 2010 and only 312 million kroons of profit tax has been paid on it, which is calculated at 2%. And the banks haven't paid a cent in the last four years. You're saying it's not because they can choose when they pay for the profits. At the same time, banks have sent quite large sums of money from this facility for an indefinite period of time. You say that we allow companies to choose the time of taxation. When will this time come? Is it really possible to postpone it indefinitely?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U83	As I said, this profit is taxed when dividends are taken. In the case of branches, the problem was that they had a special regime, dividends were withdrawn elsewhere. Then we equated them with the banks. The Swedbank case could have been reviewed at your request before coming here, only I can't even tell for sure how much I could publicly talk about their tax. I'm gonna have to check it out, I'm gonna hesitate, and specific tax matters aren't quite public. After all, you are still producing a completely different example, as if the Latvian and Lithuanian profits should have been taxed. This isn't right. Of course, whether profits are derived from fees or from anything else, it does not make any difference that income is still taken into account as profits and taxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U84	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U85	Thank you. Mr. Minister! 70% of new companies established in Estonia have zero employees. Ten years ago, there were barely 40% of these companies. Salary income is 95% of the income of a natural person in Estonia. Does it not seem to you that the profit taxation system allows private income to be channelled to the company level and then consumed without income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U86	No, it certainly doesn't. And these numbers aren't some kind of indicator here. The fact that businesses have been quickly set up lately, I did not notice what year you certainly mentioned as the cause of the economic recovery and our interest in us. This concerns both the general economic recovery last year and the euro and the economic environment. Before, we had a big minus, the euro if the understandable currency is very important for investment. But to Kadri Samson, I didn't say anything about it. This lending activity is still a fact. Service fees here do not do without to such an extent, for example in the case of Swedbank, the ratio of loans to deposits to 1.8 was probably the same. In terms of the idea, the volume of loans and deposits should be comparable; it has now fallen to 1.2. It itself shows that we have borrowed vast amounts of foreign money here, and that foreign money has clearly been introduced into Swedbank. You're still hurting them. And it's all coming back in taxes of some kind. At some point it was received so much that we were no longer able to exercise sufficient political control over the budget. We made more reserves, but it was never possible to make as many reserves as it would have made good budgetary sense. Still, the pressure was all kinds of nice raises. All this bubble could have been invested in taxes. Of course, no government could do that in the knowledge of that time. With today's knowledge, I'm guessing, you might as well be able to, should there be a bubble again. We could, however, write these measures into the law. Sweden, for example, has done so and will certainly live better over its bubbles, living in a decent surplus, where reserves are growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U87	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U88	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U89	I'm sorry! Structural surplus, not necessarily nominal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U90	Please continue, Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U91	The profit tax analysis ordered by the Ministry of Finance, which was ordered in February last year, has not mentioned the possibility that foreign owners will transport money in the form of loans exempt from tax. As loans, even EUR 5 billion have been disbursed in 2009-2011. For what reason did this information leave out of this analysis? Did it fall out of the Ministry of Finance, or the client's request, or for some other reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U92	We still commissioned an analysis of the comprehensive tax system. If such a thing is not highlighted, it must be interpreted in such a way that it is not a considerable problem. I don't think you're gonna ask me how private individuals have been taken out of Swedbank as loans. Loan is a loan, loan has to be repaid, loan is not lost. In Swedbank's case, you made it look like the Swedes were borrowing money out of this Swedbank and taking it out profit-free. No, they take out their own money and regardless of form, they either pay a dividend tax or pay market-based interest. But right now, they're still taking their money out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U93	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U94	Thank you. Dear Minister, I listened to this question, and I'm a little confused. Inquiry, the question is to what extent the problem is the withdrawal of profits and that it is done in such a way that a company registered in Estonia provides loans to its foreign parent company. But the loan will have to be repaid sometime and the loan will be remunerated by the parent company. It's not a profit takeout, it's a profit takeout. Isn't there a logic error in asking around here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U95	Yeah, I'm always trying to explain it, but once the attitude is taken and the legend is made, you have to read it over and over again. I've said so much, and so many have had to hear a different argument. We can also say in this way that all the huge foreign investment that has been made here is just a lot of profit or equity transferred here from other countries is not a punishment for Estonia at all. We are taking industry alone: if we are to be considered the main generator of living standards in our small country, then 70 percent and more of industrial production is currently exported, and 2/3 of this production comes from companies with foreign capital. Banking is completely under the control of foreign capital. We are in a very happy situation in this sense. We have not had a banking crisis; we do not have a financial crisis. We only have an economic crisis. The international financial crisis, our own over-exploitation at all levels, including the state budget, in terms of raising wages between 2006 and 2007, also in terms of making the 2008 budget, we ourselves are guilty, the financial crisis is guilty, but foreign capital is not to blame. With the exception of too intensive lending, with which they also generated revenue for us, they didn't take them out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U96	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Palts!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U97	Minister of Finance! The company's profits are generally an indicator of efficiency. Effectiveness is the most important thing in economic competition. Taxing profits is, in fact, taxation of efficiency. I think it's that simple. Do you think the Social Democrats and the Central Party don't understand it or do you not want to understand it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U98	I don't know. But it is rather an option for them to be useful to fail to understand, because the constant incitement to resentment against those who earn more or create more jobs is still an incitement to resentment against the minority. If you identify with some working people and say that someone who doesn't work lives better at the same time, then resentment is easy to develop. Economic mechanisms are not well understood without economic education. Lack of economic education is a very big problem. I do not think that efficiency should be taxed, but it must be acknowledged that, without taxing corporate income, tax losses and tax shifts are simply so great that they are not reasonable. For example, only in the case of consumption taxation, which is the best option for the economy and the environment, the wealthiest would remain under-taxed. Right now, I think we have the optimal system. It is an honest way to tax income in proportion, to tax consumption in a proportionate and even manner, eliminating all exceptions and taxing goods with harmful side effects with higher excise duties. And there is a working tax system. You can also talk about the taxation of property. It's got its problems and its good side. The problem is undoubtedly that it is not in sync with real cash flows and causes people great inconvenience when they start taxing their homes or cars, as the opposition wishes. We would create huge money problems for people, they may not have the income to pay more for using existing assets. I think that the direction towards taxation of consumption is the only one right. At the end of last week, an online title spread that we have the highest consumption taxes. This was absurd in substance, because it is only a question of the proportion of consumption tax among other taxes. Our consumption tax rates are rather lower than elsewhere in Europe, but since we have almost zero taxes on assets and moderate taxes on income, the share of consumption tax is higher. This is exactly the direction in which other European countries are moving. Everyone understands that labour taxation hampers employment and that capital taxation loses jobs. So in the future, consumption will rather be taxed at a higher level and capital and labour will be taxed at a lower level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U99	There are no further questions for the Minister of Finance. Thank you, Jürgen Ligi! Kadri Samson has a wish to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U100	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's be honest, with his last line on taxes, the Minister of Finance is now picking up my speech chair. Indeed, there is a dispute over taxes. In recent years, a list of taxes has been added so long that I would probably spend my time reading them all out. However, I will, for example, bring an increase in VAT, which hits people's wallet when buying basic foods, then a tax added to the price of medicines and textbooks, an increase in the cost of cultural events, higher excise duties on fuel and electricity, which, in turn, rewind the price increase, which is indeed the fastest in Estonia in the European Union. It has been the choice of the current government, and it also strikes all people who are not highly paid, and of course those who do not earn any wages at all. It also hits those who are not yet working, perhaps children, because they also take medicines, use textbooks, drive, eat, live in a warm room. And it also hits people who are no longer working, i.e. pensioners. The government's choice is to place the tax burden on everyone equally, even on those who cannot bear it. To remind you once again what the point of our inquiry was, it was a reference to the fact that there is no money in Estonia and there is no money at all. In a previous inquiry, it was said that the Minister of Culture would find money for cultural workers by working effectively in his field. On the other hand, there has been a patronage of the corporate tax system. It is said that companies will be given time and they will choose when they will pay the tax, but there will also be opportunities to postpone payment of the tax forever. After all, this is not just about foreign banks who collect transfer fees and all kinds of other fees in Estonia, it is about companies in general. I would like to remind you a few more times, and I am not only speaking on the basis of the press, but this information has been taken directly from Statistics Estonia and Eesti Pank. If Estonian profits had been taxed at 20% and if these amounts had also been paid, more than 60 billion kroons of additional income would have been paid to the state budget during the 2003-2010 period. That's a considerable amount. It is true that all of this has not, of course, been left untaxed by the Estonian state, taxes have been collected in other ways, and something of which has indeed been reinvested. But in recent years, the balance of payments shows a rapid outflow of money. Through this loan for an indefinite period, it is easy to do so; payment of the tax can be postponed forever. However, this cannot be postponed by the Estonian people who have to go to the grocery store and pay high VAT on food, who pay it if they want to go to a cultural event. And if they want to keep the room warm in the winter, they have to pay the tax immediately. They have no choice when to start to bear the tax burden; it must be borne immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U101	Thank you. Any more calls? Would the Minister like a final word? No, I don't. The sixth item on the agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U102	We're going to the next question. Enquiries submitted to the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus on 13 February 2012 by Valeri Korbi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Deniss Borodichi, Peeter Võsa, Eldar Efendijev, Rainer Vakra, Aadu Musta, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Reps, Kadri Simson and Aivar Riisalu, members of the Riigikogu, concerning lease contracts for hazardous waste collection centres. I ask you to speak to Valeri Korb on behalf of the speakers in the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U103	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Our inquiry was indeed completed on 13 February and addressed to the esteemed Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment. The subject of the inquiry is the lease contracts for hazardous waste collection centres. In our inquiry, we write that the article "Strange management of state property" published in the Äripäev newspaper on 8 February describes the situation where the Vaivara and South Estonia's hazardous waste collection centre in the Ministry of the Environment will close contracts with existing tenants in the near future, no new competitions have been announced and the tenants have not been contacted. According to sources asking for anonymity on business day, the reason for the delay in the new competition may be the desire to replace the current tenants of hazardous waste collection centres with a new company and the delay is an informed activity of the Ministry's top managers. By 13 February, when we wrote the inquiry, the Ministry of the Environment had not informed the tenants of Vaivara and South Estonia's hazardous waste collection centre about their future activities. As a result, the organisation of the reception of hazardous waste in centres has been disrupted for a long time. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister, which we would like to have an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U104	Thank you. I beg the Secretary of the Environment of the Chair, Keit Pentus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! If you will allow me, I will begin to answer the inquiry with a small background to the history of hazardous waste in Estonia. I begin by saying that if we are talking about the construction of hazardous waste management sites in Estonia at all, this is one of the areas that was planned at the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment at the beginning of the 1990s. Before that, Estonia had no proper control over the production, collection and handling of hazardous waste. We also lacked entrepreneurs who would have had experience, equipment and technology in this regard. At that time, the State undertook to deal with the organisation, development and coordination of the management of hazardous waste, in addition to the development and establishment of policies, rules and standards, in order to avoid a serious environmental risk from hazardous waste. The purpose of establishing treatment facilities was to create the possibility for hazardous waste producers to transfer their waste to a legal waste operator to ensure environmentally sound and controlled treatment of waste. In order to fulfil this obligation, the Ministry of the Environment worked closely with the Danish Environment Agency and international consultants in the early 1990s and in the 1990s at all, together with a national plan for the management of hazardous waste. Its main objects were the regional collection centres for hazardous waste, which had to be able to receive, sort, repack and pass on any hazardous waste generated in Estonia for final treatment. It was also envisaged to build waste disposal sites or to reconstitute existing industrial facilities for hazardous waste management, for example, to adapt the Kunda cement plant to the incineration of waste. The construction of a hazardous waste landfill, or landfill site, was considered to be the most important since at that time there was no possibility of environmentally sound landfilling of hazardous waste in Estonia. Since the financial opportunities of the Estonian state and companies were not well known at the time, and it was not possible to build treatment facilities either, there was a large contribution to external aid, which in turn led to the ownership of the sites being built being state-owned, i.e. public treatment or collection centres. The Danish country's environmental aid and the European Union's PHARE programme were mainly used. Later, with the support of the ISPA Fund, and the then environmental fund, which has now become KIK, was established with the participation of Tallinn's hazardous waste collection centre and Vaivara's hazardous waste management centre has been able to use these resources. The collection centre for hazardous waste in Tartu, which was provided for in the initial programme, was established somewhat later, in the 2000s and it was possible to use predominantly national funds already. Regional collection centres for hazardous waste in Tallinn and Tartu are such treatment sites that are primarily intended for the collection and reception of hazardous waste from hazardous waste producers, their distribution or classification by species, where necessary also for the analysis and temporary storage of waste prior to their transfer to final treatment, which facilitates the subsequent transport and processing of waste when we are talking, for example, about the separation of waste oils from water and sediment. In general, it has to be said that waste collection centres in Tallinn and Tartu do not have a more thorough and 'final waste management', which is already the responsibility of specialised waste management companies. Vaivara's hazardous waste management centre is somewhat different. This includes a regional collection centre that is similar to the objects of Tallinn and Tartu, especially north-east Estonia, but Vaivara's peculiarity is that there is also a hazardous waste landfill, which is precisely the so-called final landfill site. It has to be said that there is currently no other such universal and environmentally compliant place for the landfill of hazardous waste in Estonia. And if you look at its capacity, it must be said that there is probably no economic or substantive need to build similar landfills in Estonia. Before going to the specific questions you have asked, I might mention some of the figures that we are talking about in the case of hazardous waste in Estonia to give a better picture. If we look at the amount of hazardous waste in tonnes, it does not cover oil shale waste, but other hazardous waste, it has all moved between 128170 and 245687 tonnes between 2006 and 2010. This highest figure is due from 2008 to 245687. For example, when we are talking about 2010, the most recent of which I currently have available data, 214391 tonnes of hazardous waste were generated this year. Now to the questions. Question 1: 'How do you, as Minister for the Environment, assess the situation where the collection of hazardous waste in two regions has been disrupted for a long time by the inaction of the Ministry? " The claim that lies in the matter is not true. Neither Vaivars nor Tartu, which is the subject of your question, has there been, nor has the collection of hazardous waste been disturbed in any way. The current users of state assets have acted in accordance with the contracts they have concluded and the waste that has arrived at these collection sites has been adopted under the conditions in force. We have extended the agreement for a maximum of six months, i.e. with a deadline of no more than 22 August. If, as a result of the competition, it is possible to reach new contracts in the past, the period for renewal of the contract will also be shorter. So the situation in which the collection of hazardous waste is disrupted has not arisen or will not arise. The second question: "Do you think that there is a risk of environmental pollution if the tenants of hazardous waste collection centres are changing in a hurry? ' As I pointed out in reply to the previous question, the agreements currently in force have been extended. Perhaps it is also important that the terms of the lease of Vaivara waste management centre allow three months in the event of a change in the tenant's business to pass on the administration and order of business. Three months is quite enough time to hand over so there is no rush. I really think it is very important that the competition already announced in the case of Vaivara, as well as the transition from the current agreement in the case of Tartu (in the case of Tartu we are probably talking about the disposal), is sufficiently thorough and legally very well prepared, it must not be done in haste. The third question: 'Why has the Ministry of the Environment not been in operational contact with the tenants of Vaivara and the hazardous waste collection centres in South Estonia on the subject of organising a new competition? " In Vaivara and Tartu, both tenants use these centres under the State Property Act and, as you are very well aware of as legislators, the State Property Act does not provide, in any way, that the organisation of the competition will in any way be preceded by the interaction with the tenants who are using one or the other asset. So there can be no such targeted communication with current tenants. I don't know what else to answer about this question right now. Question 4: 'Why has the announcement of competitions delayed in finding the tenants of Vaivara and South Estonia's hazardous waste collection centres? ' Now I have to say that you are a little fickle in your questions or in your accusations. When you referred to rushing back two questions, now you are talking about stalling. The truth is, it's not either, it's not rushing, it's not stretching. In the case of Vaivara, it may also be important for you to know that, in March 2007, this was quite immediately before the new government took office, the contract concluded by Vaivara's hazardous waste management centre relates to the current obligation to the current tenant of a state with a balance of about EUR 158000, and that was one of the reasons why the preparation of the new competition became more time-consuming than originally planned. It is precisely because this former agreement still involves an obligation on the State, which is why the competition must be thoroughly and legally fully prepared. And the last question: 'How do you comment on the allegations that the Ministry of the Environment is deliberately delaying the call and trying to direct the winning contest to a particular company? " If anyone has claimed this, these claims are not true and are more malicious. The Ministry of the Environment is interested in having as many participants as possible in these competitions, in order to be fair, transparent and equal opportunities for all from the outset. In this way, the State would also have the most beneficial agreement from the state's point of view for the coming years. Maybe that's it for now. I am happy to answer further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U106	Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Listening to you, I have a question about Vaivara. Please tell me if it was already foreseen at the beginning that we only have this Vaivara repository that serves the whole of Estonia. If that was the case, how long has it been planned, knowing that so much waste will be collected there every year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U108	Thank you. No, it wasn't like that. The original plan was to build four hazardous waste collection centres. They were to come to Tallinn, West Estonia, South Estonia and North-East Estonia and then another hazardous waste dump. West-Estonia Centre has not been built for economic reasons in particular. So three hazardous waste collection centres have been built nationally. The landfill of hazardous waste is now in Vaivara, one on the state side. This was the original plan already developed in the 1990s with the Danish Environment Agency.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U109	No further questions. There's a possible question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U110	I understand, but there was another part of my question: how long is he supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U111	True, that was the second part of the question. For how long, it is not possible to say right now. If we look at the quantities of hazardous waste, we cannot say that we are approaching the point where hazardous waste is no longer generated. So the hazardous waste disposal area will certainly be operating in Estonia for a very long time. This is not a landfill or landfill that would have been expected to be closed in the foreseeable future, as usual landfills or landfills have gone. We certainly cannot talk about this yet in the case of hazardous waste.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U112	Thank you, Minister of the Environment. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U113	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme, Viktor Vasiliyev, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Peeter Võsa and Priit Toobali on 14 February. a request for information on the Ministry of Justice's negative assessment of the environment in the Ministry's area of administration. Mr Tarmo Tamm has already come to the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U114	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The content of the inquiry is a negative assessment by the Minister of Justice of what is happening under the administration of the Minister of the Environment. The Chairman of the Management Board of RMK Aigar Kallas, who is a member of NGO Forest Friends, has now transferred a total of EUR 46000 of state money to the NGO in its position of office. In addition to the Chairman of the Management Board of RMK, all NGO Forest Friends are members of the Management Board and founding members of RMK's senior officials. The Anti-Corruption Act in force in the Republic of Estonia contains prohibited transactions for officials. It shall be prohibited for an official to carry out transactions with himself or to carry out other transactions of that nature or in relation to a conflict of interest. The law states that it is prohibited to engage in proprietary transactions in the position of a representative of the state with a non-profit organisation the member of which is himself. Officials are trying to hide the whole concept of the problem behind the fact that RMK is a commercial institution. In assessing this case before the Riigikogu on 6 February, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal has argued and agreed with the heirs that, in the performance of a public task, transactions with themselves or with a natural and legal person related to him are, in principle, highly ethically questionable, as there is a very high risk of corruption. In addition, the Minister of Justice refers to a new draft anti-corruption law that is supposed to rule out similar cases. We have asked the Minister three questions to which we want an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U115	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. Please, Madam Secretary of the Environment, to the speaker's desk again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U116	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'm going to the questions right now. The first question: 'Why, like the Minister of Justice, has your case not been so specifically assessed on an ethical and legal level, even though this case has taken place in the area of administration of the Ministry of the Environment? " I am happy to repeat my assessment of what I have done in various places and which has been available to everyone, both publicly and at various meetings. First of all, when it comes to any state-by-state, and not only the transfer of taxpayers' money by the state, but also by the local government, it must comply with the law, it must be transparent, it must be ethical, it must be publicly observable. There can be absolutely no dual understanding here; any use of state and local government money must meet these criteria. You refer in your inquiry to contracts between RMK and the non-profit organisation that brings together RMK's employees. These are agreements made by the Head of RMK in accordance with the budget approved by the Council, i.e. as a result of this budget approved by the Council. As you are well aware, the content of these contracts has been freshly evaluated by both the prosecutor's office and the police department, the entire activities of RMK have been audited by auditors every year, in addition to the audit committee set up by the Council. As you know, the National Audit Office has carried out a number of audits at RMK. All these additional checks have also concluded that the law has been complied with. But I agree with the heirs that it is reasonable for the new anti-corruption law to rule out any ambiguities and interpretations in the future as to whether and what rules apply to the state's profit administration. It has also been the wish of the Ministry of the Environment that the new anti-corruption law should remove these issues so that in a year's time we should not be in a situation where we are discussing how and exactly what is meant by the law. Your second question is how the new Anti-Corruption Act affects operations in the administration of the Ministry of the Environment and whether consultations have been held with the Ministry of Justice on this issue. As I said, the wish of the Ministry of the Environment has been and we have considered it necessary for the new anti-corruption law to set clear and specific limits that would allow us to avoid unnecessary disputes about the interpretation of the law in the future, and for these rules to be applied unambiguously to the state's profit institutions. This change in the new anti-corruption law will also be introduced. On the administrative side, it can be said that no significant need for restructuring will be brought about by the new law. The circle of persons who are required to make a declaration of economic interests will certainly be more precise, and it will be possible to establish more precisely who has a declaration obligation. However, no major and fundamental administrative restructuring is foreseen. Last question: 'What is your assessment of the financial separation between RMK and the above-mentioned non-profit organisation? ' That's what I've done before. I would like to clarify, or draw attention to, a slightly misleading understanding left in the air, as if the payment had somehow been optimized through the contract made by RMK. That's not true. RMK has paid the special preferential tax. On the side of RMK, the tax administration was asked for a position before, and the behaviour has been done exactly according to the instructions of the tax administration. So there is no "tax optimization" here. It has really been about supporting sports activities and a healthy lifestyle for the staff of the institution, which is by its very nature a good goal. Perhaps, in this very large example of public attention, it is also important that we may finally be able to discuss what form and whether the public authority should contribute to supporting the healthy way of life of its workers and the practice of sport. There has been debate and debate on this before, and it is a question of choice in what form and how to do it. RMK made its choice several years ago and made this choice in line with other state companies on that occasion. I consider it reasonable for this practice to be harmonised and, on the side of both the state and local authorities, such editing would be subject to uniform and common rules. Finally. Until such common principles have been established, it may be important to know that there is no such agreement in RMK in 2012, and so it will remain until common agreed rules are established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U117	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Mr Tarmo Tamm, first, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U118	Thank you. Madam Secretary! RMK is a profit-making institution. It's such an exceptional thing, and no one in the past remembers how it ever happened. Would it not be wise to change it today so that such scenarios cannot be repeated in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U119	Thank you. How this could have happened, isn't it possible to find out when you read the verbatim reports of the Riigikogu, for example? In 1998, I think it was December, if I am not mistaken, then on 9 December this vote took place. The results of the vote can be taken out by everyone, and certainly the verbatim report can also be followed up on the progress of the debate at the time. Would it be wise to change the legal status of RMK? You need to analyze the whole RMK here very carefully and calmly. RMK is not a classic company and RMK's sole objective is certainly not to make the greatest possible profit for the State. The task of RMK is, among other things, to care for our nature reserves, to do nature conservation work, to care for national parks. Similarly, RMK has done a very good and very grateful job to make it as comfortable as possible for people to go to the forest. There are nature reserves with hiking trails, and not only hiking trails, but everything that belongs to it, from the campfire sites. Unfortunately, people have different levels of culture, and in order not to raid the forest, firewood has been prepared. So it is really possible to spend comfortably there, and the trail that is left behind in nature is as solid and polite as possible. This is all the kind of action that is very, very important for the state, for the Estonian forests. The question in itself is whether and how it would be possible to do all of this if it were a classic company whose sole purpose was to generate the greatest possible revenue. I do not think we can claim that this should be the sole purpose of taking care of RMK and the state forest. Therefore, for the time being, I would be very careful with such thought developments that RMK could become, for example, a pure public limited company, as some other state-owned company is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U120	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U121	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I didn't understand your judgment very clearly, very well. You said that several bodies have checked, there has been no violation of the law, but in our question we are expected to have such an ethical assessment. Perhaps you will repeat your assessment of this particular case. And if this assessment is rather negative, have you sanctioned the leader of RMK or at least talked to him about it, and has it worked?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U122	I'm sorry you didn't understand, but I'm happy to say it again. Whether we are talking about a state institution, a self-government institution, a state company or a sub-unit, the handling of taxpayers' money must be transparent, must be publicly observable and must be ethical. In no way must one give the impression that there have been any advantages or that the use of money can be called into question or deemed ethically questionable. As far as RMK is concerned, largely because the public has raised questions about this agreement, it has been decided not to conclude the agreement this year, which I referred to earlier. I do, however, consider it important that a more widely debated principle be reached on this issue, so that we can discuss and discuss how and in what way public authorities, including local authorities, local authorities, should take care of the health of their employees, how they should contribute to it, which would be the most appropriate and reasonable form. It needs to be discussed. And if you look for something positive about this much more outburst and attention, I hope that perhaps it was such a driving force or indicator, which is why I now hope that we will be able to take a closer look at this issue in this Chamber, too, and calmly discuss what these rules are supposed to be. I believe, I suppose you will agree, that this is in itself a principle and a goal that the health of your workers must be maintained and cared for, that it must be contributed, sensible, and that it should rather be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of enquiries, only one question can be asked. Therefore, I would like to ask a question next to my colleague, Mrs Stuff.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, I absolutely agree with you that the health of workers must be cared for and, if possible, compensated. At present, there has been a situation where, through the NGO in question, the health of RMK's employees has been promoted for taxpayers' money, whose work also takes place in the fresh air and is quite healthy. Other institutions have done so for their money, not for taxpayers' money. You take the problem very mildly, very compassionately. That's right. Recently, employees of the Road Administration went skiing, which is also health care, yet the Minister acted very harshly. So please make an assessment of whether RMK has behaved ethically.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U125	Thank you. There's no way you can put an equal sign between these two things, they're not evenly weightable. RMK has acted and made contracts in accordance with the budget approved and approved by the Council. So there hasn't been anything unexpected or surprising to anyone here. Similarly, all these agreements have been publicly observable from the outset. They are still available to you now, if you should be interested in RMK's document management system, and they have always been up there. Once again, as I may have said in reply to the second question: it makes sense if the new anti-corruption law lays down very unambiguous and clear rules so that the debate, the debate on how to interpret the law, whether the anti-corruption law and which provision will apply precisely to the state profit institution, would be ruled out in the future. Such clarity, the establishment of specific legislative principles is necessary and was also the wish of the Ministry of the Environment when the government submitted a new anti-corruption law to the Riigikogu. I am glad that this new law will be settled, and I hope that the discussion of the law in this Chamber and in the committees will be quite effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U126	No further questions. Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U127	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to argue against this argument that the law will lay down, there will be a new, good law, that we haven't had any good laws, but what comes will certainly be the best, it will put everything in place, and then it will be all right. I don't believe that. Let me tell you a story. About a year ago, a very unpleasant situation arose in a foundation involving the city of Narva and also the Ministry of Culture. It turned out that one of the employees of this foundation, how to say it, used quite a lot of money for himself, almost a million kroons, and he himself admitted it. After that, the Foundation's leadership informed the police that nothing illegal had happened. Then turned to the police at the foundation, I mean Alexander's church foundation, and turned twice. It was only after the third time that something was being investigated, even though the damage had actually been done, as I said, in the amount of about 1 million kroons. To date, all these easily verifiable facts do not matter, no one has suffered any punishment and no one is being accused. On the other hand, I can give examples of people being put behind bars on the basis of doubt and sitting there for months and years. So no law will change anything as long as politicians are in charge of these laws. Listening to the current question, I had more questions than understanding. I honestly don't understand how that's possible. The state institution spends a lot of money to keep its people in good athletic shape, as it has sounded here, the head of the institution must take care of the health of the workers, take care of them. In one case, everything is legally correct, everything is beautiful, practically for entertainment and sports, money is allocated and everything is okay, this is RMK's case. In the second case, when it comes to the Road Administration, which I do not intend to defend at all, there is a scandal with their holiday home, even though this holiday home has existed for many years, it has been known by all public authorities and there can be no secret here. One situation is dignified, the other is unworthy. It is not possible to change the situation in which similar acts are assessed differently by any law. So I wouldn't expect so much to have a good law and then our lives will change. It's all a beautiful fairy tale! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U128	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U129	The next question is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Inara Luigas, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korbi, Peeter Võsa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Esther Tuiksoo, Mailis Reps and Aadu on 15 February (No 117). Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U130	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The victory pillar of the War of Independence was first opened in June 2009. After that, the pillar had to be repaired immediately. You remember, there were replacements for the pinkish glass panes, a little later, there were problems with lighting. A total of EUR 8,5 million was needed to build a monument and to remedy the shortcomings identified after the opening, which is one third more than originally planned. The state of the winning pillar was examined by the National Audit Office. The report shows that there was no substantive competition for the selection of the monument pillar and the cross manufacturer. On 2 February 2008, the project manager AS Telora-E invited three companies to submit a tender for the design and manufacture of the pillar and cross within nine days. By the time it was set, more or less the correct bid came from the Czech company alone, while other companies that received the proposal stated that they would not be able to put together the exact bid within nine days. I don't think there's any way we can make a bid in nine days because we had to negotiate with other companies. That's it. On the basis of the information provided by the National Audit Office, Sans Souci was able to formalise his tender within six days because he had the information necessary to make the tender as early as December 2007. The inquiry has been submitted to Mr Mart Laar, but we are talking here with Mr Aaviksoo, who was responsible for the construction of the winning pillar and announced in the Riigikogu Question Time on 18 November 2009 that the state would start spending an average of 629000 kroons, or 40000 euros per year, for the installation costs of the monument. However, according to the contract concluded with Riigi Kinnisvara AS in 2011, more than 5000 euros per month, i.e. almost one million kroons per year, have been accounted for as administrative and maintenance fees. This amount does not include the cost of any repairs. In this regard, I and ten other colleagues have five questions. As it is customary for ministers to read the question before replying, I am saving time and not going to read them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U131	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Speaker's Department of Defence, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U132	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Both the good questioners who have been able to wait to answer and those who are supposed to follow my answers online! Let me start answering. But before I get to the answer, I wonder why this question doesn't make me wonder. This question does not surprise me because I know the attitudes and views of many of the questioners about the pillars of the victory of the War of Independence and the recording of the memory of the War of Independence from many debates both in the Riigikogu and in the public. Therefore, the fight against this pillar, both before and after it has been erected, is simply a consistent political stance that must be properly recognised. Now the questions. One: 'The state control estimates that the opening of the Statue of Victory for the War of Independence hastened the politically determined deadline for the completion of an unrealistic monument. Who has to take responsibility for the extra costs caused by excessive haste? " Indeed, it can be expected that the building of the victory pillar of the War of Independence has been speeded up. However, one can also take the view that the establishment of the victory pillar of the War of Independence has been unduly stretched, since he got up more than 90 years after the end of the War of Independence. I am therefore pleased that the previous government was able to liquidate this debt of gratitude and set up a victory pillar of the War of Independence. The victory pillar of the War of Independence in Vabaduse Square is today accepted by both the public and the power as a national monument to Estonia's freedom and its survival. An unrealistic maturity set at political level. I hope that the questioners will remember that the deadline to arrive on 28 November 2008 was postponed on my own proposal and the deadline set for opening was 23 June 2009. Clearly, therefore, the government took time to bring the victory pillar of the War of Independence to a successful conclusion within the limits of its possibilities. In addition, I note that the National Audit Office has not said in its audit that an ambitious deadline for completion resulted in additional costs. Moreover, I think it is speculative to say that extending the design phase and prior testing and consultation of different solutions would have significantly changed the final price of the winning pillar. I therefore see no reason for anyone to take responsibility for the additional costs caused. Secondly, 'What are the reasons for ignoring the Public Procurement Act in the selection of the project manager? " Good questioners! The audit of the National Audit Office found that no laws have been violated in the event of the establishment of the victory pillar of the War of Independence. The establishment of the winning pillar was an important interest for the Republic of Estonia, which is why the exception provided for in the Public Procurement Act was applied to the selection of the project manager, which allows contracts to be concluded in decision-making procedures. All procurements related to the construction of the winning pillar were guided by the principles of the Public Procurement Act and also by the choice of the project management service provider. The project management service was decided to be ordered from AS Telora-E on the basis of the proposal of design contest authors, the company's extensive experience in managing large-scale and complex projects and reliable cooperation so far in managing various projects. Thirdly, 'How do you assess the nine-day deadline for the preparation of the tender? Is such a deadline sufficient to offer such a large project? Was the deadline for drawing up such a short tender intended to ensure the victory of the Czech tenderer Sans Souc, favored by the Ministry of Defence? ' The deadline for the submission of tenders was indeed intense, but before the tender was announced, the Ministry of Defence was already actively seeking contact with several foreign companies, which were expected to have experience of similar works. Three companies from Sweden, Germany and the Czech Republic were invited to participate in the competition. When setting the deadline for the submission of tenders, the Ministry of Defence considered that potential tenderers would, where appropriate, exercise the right to request an additional deadline for the submission of tenders. That's not what the partners did. Moreover, none of the companies contested the decision to declare the Czech tenderer successful. Fourthly, "How will the rising electricity and other services continue to affect monument operating costs in the coming years? Can these factors further increase the administrative costs of the monument in the future? ' According to the administrative service contract concluded with Riigi Kinnisvara AS, the administrative service fee is indexed once a year. Of course, the increase in input prices also affects the operating costs of the monument. However, in 2012, for example, the cost of providing the administrative service of the winning pillar has fallen somewhat compared to 2011. Fifthly, 'What is the total cost of maintenance and administration of monuments and monuments in the Ministry of Defence's budget this year and on what basis are these amounts distributed between the various monuments? Do you think that the administrative and maintenance fees of the victory pillar of the War of Independence are in proportion to the maintenance fees of other Estonian monuments? 'The Ministry of Defence does not organise the maintenance and administration of monuments and monuments. The government of the Ministry of Defence has only the victory pillar of the War of Independence, whose administration and maintenance service has been given to Riigi Kinnisavara AS, and the cemetery of the Defence Forces, which is provided by the Parks of Central City of OÜ. The Ministry of Defence does not have a separate budget line for the maintenance of monuments and monuments, and all contractual costs are covered by the economic costs of the properties, buildings and premises. The Ministry of Defence also supports the protection of historical heritage, including the restoration and erecting of monuments, but their administrative and maintenance costs will later be borne by local authorities. Given the importance and importance of the victory pillar of the War of Independence for the people of Estonia, I consider the administrative and maintenance fees proportionate to the task. Thank you for asking!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U133	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns why the Ministry of Defence organised the building of this monument. Organisation of the ordering of works of art is the task of the Ministry of Culture according to the Constitution of the Ministry of Culture. For some reason, the cabinet decided that this monument or work of art must be ordered by the Ministry of Defence. Can't that be one of the reasons why the whole project was so mismanaged? Perhaps it should have been done to run and organise the Ministry of Culture, then it would have been done much better and more correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U135	The decision was taken by the former cabinet. Therefore, I cannot comment here at the moment on what arguments were taken into account in this decision. However, I am of the opinion that the victory pillar of the War of Independence cannot be viewed narrowly as a cultural object. This is a national monument, in particular a memorial to the fighters who have fallen in the War of Independence. The commemoration of the War of Independence and the fight for freedom is also among the duties of the Ministry of Defence, which is why I consider such a decision to be understandable. In retrospect, I can say that the Ministry of Defence has carried out this task conscientiously and with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U136	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U137	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you for a very sympathetic answer in the vast majority, because everything was considered and justified. But I was amazed at the beginning of the answer. Does it not seem to you that a minister in Parliament who answers to a question may, however, abide by Parliament's good practices, so that the questioners are not going to be glued on labels? I am personally offended by your assessment that the signatories to this inquiry are some kind of opponents of the War of Independence. My grandfather fought in the War of Independence, was the boyfriend of the Liberty Cross, and I hold high the memory of the War of Independence, but I do not think that this justifies mismanagement or organisation. How do you feel about this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U138	My reference to the fact that different questioners have made different decisions at different stages of decision-making, including on alternative projects, is based on the protocols of the Riigikogu. If I'm wrong to read them, I'm willing to apologize. I am afraid that my starting points in this regard have, however, been justified and based on facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U139	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, I even liked your pathetic tone at the beginning, although the content was cheaply demagogic. I'm sure I want to tell you that no one is against the Statue of Victory of the War of Independence, at least on my own behalf, I am not against it. I would like to ask you how much you personally participated in the selection of the builder of this pillar. Were you interested in how much it costs, who is elected, from which country is the builder, or did you trust the specialists of the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U141	Personally, I didn't participate in the designer's or project manager's selection. Moreover, I consider such direct participation unacceptable if everything is done in accordance with the law and the legislation issued under the law. As regards the cost, the Ministry of Defence gave a preliminary assessment that in addition to the 10 million Estonian kroons already allocated earlier, 100 million Estonian kroons are needed. As Minister of Defence, I tried to keep spending within these frameworks and, in the main, it succeeded. As regards the costs that were incurred not from the costs earmarked for the construction of the victory pillar of the War of Independence, but from other amounts, including those allocated for the provision and design of legal aid services, I had to know better and, based on the opinion of the National Audit Office, I can confirm that these expenses have also been made in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U142	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U143	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Since my colleague, Inara Luigas, is missing today, I was fortunate to report this question. That's why I'm taking your words that sounded at the beginning to my address. And I say that you are a political speculator and a demagogogue without conscience, but I will apologize to you and take those words back if you find one of my quotations, even one of my articles or a few speeches where I have said something against the War of Independence. If you do not, I will continue to believe that you are an absolute demagogue and a speculator, Mr Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U144	Thank you, Mr Stalnukhin, for your good words.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U145	Please ask a question! Please, a question from my colleague, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U146	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You are, of course, familiar with the report of the National Audit Office because, although you are the Minister of Education and Research today, you will certainly keep an eye on what is going on in your former administration. There are quite a number of critical remarks here. One serious remark is that at the time when the contract partner was chosen to build the monument, three companies were asked for a bid, but only one company was actually offered because the full plan and offer had to be submitted within nine days. The National Audit Office finds quite unambiguously that it was not really intended to create competition, but had previously agreed to whom this offer would be made. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U147	As far as I know, there were considerably more than three companies and companies consulted, and this process went on much longer. With the first impetus, it was argued that there could be about 10 to 20 companies who would, in principle, be able to carry out the concept of authors. I know that consultations were held and contacts were indeed sought with companies outside of this area, such as Ittala, Finland, and some others whose names I am not now ready to restore by memory. Therefore, in addition to erecting this demanding object of high quality, I couldn't read anything about the DOD's behavior. As regards the complaints that only nine days were indeed left to make the final bid, I admit that, of course, under ideal conditions and in a different situation, the victory pillar of the War of Independence could also have been set up with significantly different timings and other timetables. But in practical life, decisions must still be made within the limits of the possibilities that time has given, and therefore the speculations of ideality are less productive. I can assure you that all the DOD officials I encountered during this project committed themselves to this in their best knowledge and faith, as well as the speculations that were made in their time, were quite thoroughly verified in the DOD. Therefore, the bodies responsible for ensuring the transparency of this process have not, either before or after complaints of departure from the public interest. That's why doubt about these motives is inappropriate for me, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U148	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U149	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, You certainly know that there are certain principles in the Public Procurement Act. They assume that, above all, there must be an objective desire to participate in public procurement for all those who wish to do so, of course. For many years I have been involved in public procurement, among other things, I feel this process, I know how it works. I can tell you. Let's say it happens that in one municipality, for example, it has been decided to build or renovate a kindergarten, let us talk about a specific case, and it has been allocated EUR 2 million, not EUR 7 or 8.5 million, as was the case with the Statue of Liberty. Then suddenly it turns out that those who carried out the public procurement had met with the company that won the public procurement, or it turns out that not 30 days had been given to sign up the public procurement documents, but nine days during which it would not be possible to prepare the documents, even for an object with a value of EUR 2 million, not to mention 8 million. In that case, there would be momentarily police presence, there would have been momentarily talk of corruption, and you know what it will end with. We've got a pretty common case here in the last few years. We all understand that in six days, for an object with a cost of EUR 8 million, it will not be possible to make any project that it is unethical to grant such a time for public procurement. If you're saying that everything is legally correct, that's your opinion. In fact, it's a violation of the meaning and spirit of the law, it's pure corruption. After that, the minister comes here to the remote and starts talking about patriotism, it's already a circus. Strangely, I've been talking about the same thing in a number of talks. But it seems to be the core of our lives. Indeed, as our President once said, we have some of the best and others of the worst. Everything is allowed to one side in this hall as well as across Estonia, including the violation of the law. The other one doesn't even have a chance to just work normally. Once again, Mr Minister, your introduction insulted a great many people who would like to improve what is involved in public procurement. People who do not want to hear about the case described in the latest audit report, where the public procurement was carried out and after the tenders had already been received, the public procurement conditions were changed to win a particular company that could not win under the original terms. Come and talk about patriotism on this occasion too! You've humiliated yourself today, but you didn't humiliate those who asked, you humiliated yourself. It is very unfortunate, because one way or another, but you are the Minister of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U150	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U151	We will go to the following question: Members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, Jüri Ratas, Rainer Vakra, Kalle Laaneti, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velmani, Deniss Borodichi, Valeri Korbi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Aivar Riisalu, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev and Aadu Musta on 20 February. a request for information on the substantive liquidation plan of the Estonian Maritime Academy. My colleague, Mailis Reps, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U152	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of Education and Science! Since an inquiry has already been submitted on 20 February, much has changed since then with regard to the marine academy. However, according to the good practice of making inquiries, I will present just what we asked the Minister. We hope that the Minister will also talk about the events that have taken place since February, in March and early April. For the public and maritime circles, the Ministry of Education and Research received a plan to merge the Estonian Maritime Academy into Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, i.e. to eliminate Kuku radio from "Mare Hour" on February 11, 2012. On 16 February, the Maritime Advisory Board met at its extraordinary meeting to discuss the situation. It was noted that the National Development Plan "Estonia's Maritime Education Policy 2011 has been approved by the Government of the Republic last summer' provides for the identification of the demand for maritime education in 2013 and the validation of the concept in 2014. Therefore, unexpected pressure from the Ministry is incomprehensible to us. There is talk of technical cooperation with Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, but there is a clear desire to dissolve the Estonian Maritime Academy between three or four faculties. It is known to apply to marine education, in particular to the requirements laid down by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) for ship officers (chiefs and engineer officers). Currently, the Estonian Maritime Academy holds Lloyds Register Quality Assurance Ltd certificate, IMO recognition and Maritime Administration recognition. Upon becoming the faculties of Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, these approvals need no longer apply and need not be renewed, so the diplomas of our ship officers will become internationally unrecognised. The future developments of the Estonian Maritime Academy have also been discussed several times in the last few years by the Maritime Advisory Board, together with the leading top officials of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. One of the most supported development options has been the design of the marine academy as an independent college of Tallinn University of Technology. In relation to the above, we have five questions. What is the reason for another action to eliminate the Estonian Maritime Academy, this time merging into some faculty of Tallinn University of Applied Sciences? Has the impact of such a merger on the validity of international certificates and approvals of marine education been thoroughly analysed and clarified? Does the Minister even consider it necessary and possible to continue maritime education that meets international requirements in the Republic of Estonia and thus to continue with any assumptions that Estonia could eventually become a maritime state again? Has the Ministry of Education and Research considered the possibility that the Estonian Maritime Academy may become a college of Tallinn University of Technology, since there are already joint curricula with Tallinn University of Technology (small ship building and maritime master's studies)? The maritime community is of the opinion that the Ministry of Education and Research's long-standing disincentive to marine education and the Estonian Maritime Academy, which, on the one hand, is reflected in its underfunding, is due to the lack of competence in this field in the Ministry. Do you not see the possibility that the Estonian Maritime Academy could be in the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U153	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Science again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U154	Good President! Honourable questioners! Today and the future of the Maritime Academy are the Ministry of Education and Research, but certainly not only the Ministry of Education and Research has been concerned for quite a long time. This concern is primarily driven by concerns about the future and sustainability of Estonian maritime education. For years, the marine academy has had problems with management and budget balance. Since 2009, the Maritime Academy has turned to the Ministry for additional funding for the budget deficit and the Ministry has allocated EMA an additional EMA of EEK 1 million at the end of 2010 and EUR 180000 in 2011. This year, too, the budget is extremely tense. At a meeting with Rector Lindpere at the end of March under the leadership of Deputy Chancellor Koppel, it was concluded that by 10 April at the latest, the Maritime Academy should present a concrete action plan for 2012, which takes into account the real possibilities. However, the issue of providing a high level of marine education in the longer term needs to be resolved. In addition to the financial and financial problems, the transition assessment of study programme groups showed that there are serious problems with the quality and sustainability of learning. The transition assessment of study programme groups, which assessed the quality of the study, the adequacy of resources and the sustainability of the higher education institution, did not give two study groups the right to conduct the study and had to complete the study and find other opportunities for students to further study. The transitional evaluation revealed that the age structure of the teaching staff is critical for the sustainability of the educational institution and the lack of regular teaching staff has an impact on the competitiveness of teaching, research and development. In 2014, the Maritime Academy will undergo institutional accreditation to assess the legal compliance of the university's management, organisation of work, study and research, and the study and research environment. Taking into account the criteria to be assessed, the positive completion of institutional accreditation may prove difficult for the marine academy according to the Ministry, with a negative decision leading to the closure of the higher education institution. We therefore need to start looking for solutions in cooperation with the higher education institution, the marine academy, other higher education institutions, as well as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Overviews of maritime professionals and specialties, which are able to be carried in part or in full by other institutions of higher education, are indispensable for such analysis. The Maritime Academy itself does not have an overview of the recruitment of its alumni, with the exception of the survey by the Estonian Ship Managers' Association. Only six out of 140 marine academy graduates responded to the central alumni survey carried out in 2010 under the Primus programme, which did not allow the investigator to draw any conclusions. In view of all this, the Ministry of Education and Research asked the Maritime Academy to consider specific opportunities for cooperation with both the Tallinn University of Applied Sciences and the Tallinn University of Technology. Consider concrete opportunities for cooperation. It is precisely in order to ensure the sustainability of maritime learning that consideration of such opportunities for cooperation is essential for my better understanding. How to ensure this, in which forms of cooperation, is open and undecided. However, there is no need to be overly concerned about possible merger plans. Examples in Finland and Sweden in the nearest countries have considered it necessary to integrate maritime education into the structure of other higher education institutions. But, of course, it is possible that Estonia will find a solution to how to proceed with a separate maritime education institution, which hopefully will work very closely with other higher education institutions in overlapping disciplines. The second question: Has the impact on maritime education of the validity of existing international certificates and approvals been thoroughly analysed and made clear? ' I'm not gonna give you a long answer here. In short, the question of certificates must also be considered before any decision is taken. The loss of certificates, which means that the corresponding education is not recognised, is obviously unacceptable. The third question: 'Does the Minister at all consider it necessary and possible to continue maritime education that meets international requirements in the Republic of Estonia and thus to continue with any assumptions that Estonia might ever become a maritime state again? " Good questioners! The demagogic complaints in this Chamber about my previous speech make me think and see a great deal of demagoguery on this issue as well. What are the reasons why the Ministry of Education and Research is concerned about the future of marine academy and maritime education? In particular, it is still due to the continued provision of maritime education in the Republic of Estonia that meets international requirements. That's why! So I find it inappropriate to cast such suspicions. Question 4: "Has the Ministry of Education and Research considered the possibility that the Estonian Maritime Academy could become a college of Tallinn University of Technology, because there are already joint curricula with Tallinn University of Technology? ' We have asked to map the possibilities of cooperating with different institutions, naming the University of Technology and Tallinn University. One of the obstacles to closer cooperation with Tallinn University of Technology by integrating the maritime academy into the structure of Tallinn University of Technology as a person governed by public law is that the marine academy also carries out vocational training that is not possible at a public university according to the laws in force. Changing laws by our better understanding does not make sense either. Once again, however, any options are open, and I hope that a substantive debate can take place at expert level and free from political bubbles that hinder the search for solutions to substantive issues. I would very much like to hope that the marine academy will take an open, cooperative approach to this work and indeed look for opportunities for cooperation that will increase both the quality of education and help to better target scarce resources. The coverage in professional subjects, not to mention general subjects, is sometimes more than 50% for several higher education institutions. There are certainly opportunities for cooperation here, which I call on all parties to look for, why not also Tallinn University of Technology. Question 5: 'In the maritime circles, it is believed that the Ministry of Education and Research has for many years been holding a certain disincentive to maritime education and the Estonian Maritime Academy, which, on the one hand, is also reflected in its underfinancing, is due to the lack of competence in this area within the Ministry. Don't you see the possibility that the marine academy could be under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications? ' Maritime Academy and institutions providing higher education in the maritime field are all subject to uniform rules. The Maritime Academy is funded on the same basis as the Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu and other higher education institutions. There is, in my opinion, no reason to talk specifically about underfunding maritime education. In terms of investment, for one student, the marine academy is certainly one of the most well-funded educational institutions. In designing the future of Estonian higher education, our needs must be taken into account, but our opportunities must equally be taken into account. We still have considerable room for improvement in terms of opportunities for cooperation. I am not convinced that changing the area of responsibility, i.e. moving the marine academy into the area of government of the Ministry of Education and Research, would in itself solve some problems. The problems need to be addressed in a much closer cooperation between higher education institutions than has been the case so far. The Ministry of Education and Research has the task of paying attention to the deepening, promotion and, most importantly, the effectiveness of this cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U155	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The high average age of the teaching staff of the Estonian Maritime Academy and the low number of young lecturers have been criticised. At the same time, as a result of under-financing, the salaries of the teaching staff of the Estonian Maritime Academy are the lowest compared to other universities of applied sciences, and therefore there are no new academic staff. Where do you see the solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U157	The simple answer to this question is simple: of course it can. All decisions have had an impact on today's situation and there have certainly been decisions that have had a negative impact on it, in other words, partly directly or indirectly caused the current situation. However, if I looked a little wider, I would see two important problems, for which responsibility is divided in a way very evenly across the Estonian state and its institutions. In good faith, the maritime community, workers at sea and on land after regaining independence have planned Estonian maritime education, including maritime higher education, quite spectacularly, quite ambitious, in anticipation and in the hope that demand and wealth will increase and investment will meet the expectations and expectations of those who make these plans. The real life is sadder. Real employment in this sector is far from as developed as we had hoped. The opportunities for expansional and quantitative growth in higher education as a whole and in marine education separately are certainly lower than we hoped 10 to 15 years ago, and the need for cooperation between higher education institutions, but also among other partners, is much greater than we felt in a situation where standing up for ourselves and promoting a competitive life were the norm of behaviour. So, I guess we need to bring our needs and opportunities into line, and this hard work must be done by all the higher education institutions, not just by the marine academy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U158	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science. Colleagues want to open negotiations. My colleague, Mailis Reps, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U159	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good ministers! The Estonian Maritime Academy has indeed been in its history at a quite grand and hopeful beginning. Mr Tarmo Kõuts, who was a member of the previous Riigikogu, would certainly be able to comment on this, and many members of today's Riigikogu have certainly heard these long discussions both prospectively and afterwards. The hope and expectation that this academy should become was really quite great, and maybe that's why there is a little more disappointment than there is for some other institutions. It is perhaps a disappointment, too, in the question of questioning: why are we not a maritime state, and when will we become one? Pessimism also remained quite clear in the discussion of the development plan, that if things do not improve significantly, we will not be able to guarantee a proper maritime policy in Estonia that is consistent with the maritime state, and also in terms of education. That's definitely a question. If we do not have a maritime policy, there is no maritime policy, there are no ships flying our flag, how much can we finally fight for this marine academy? The sea academy has had some painful situations in recent years. Perhaps the greatest sign of this is a long rector saga and a long saga with various plans, how a building on the temporary surface of the marine academy, which has finally been temporarily adapted for teaching under pressure of distress, which from its height, from its scale is not suitable for lectures, simulations or, in fact, for continuous teaching. The situation is that, in reality, the sea academy has not received any major investments, precisely because they should immediately be given a new place. All in all, it can be said that the last two times that European money has been distributed to universities of applied sciences and universities of higher education, the marine academy has been among the first three in the first round, and it has finally fallen out of the round in both cases. Of course, it can be said that it has been a case that no one has an evil hand behind it, but those who have hurt their hearts because of the marine academy can certainly say that the decisions to move money to were purely political. Now, if we look forward, one decision that was made a few years ago was that the marine academy was moving to the sea, moving to Kopli. There all the necessary buildings, dormitory complex and access to the sea will be developed for the marine academy. Unfortunately, these projects have not been completed, the marine academy is now divided between several houses and, of course, the costs are very high. As far as the teaching staff base is concerned, we could finally agree that we have one positive example. I believe that the former rector of the university, currently working as Minister of Education and Research, remembers very well when a few years ago the activities around the aviation college began very sceptically. There was also quite a lot of talk about the fact that aviation college, as such, is too big a bite to swallow in the Republic of Estonia, but it was in cooperation with several universities that an independent, yet fully integrated, very strong and very expensive school was established. I hope that, in the case of the marine academy, perhaps in the very near future, we can talk about the same model that he is an independent, integrated, nice school looking forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U160	I have already repeated and repeated: the marine academy is funded on the same basis as other higher education institutions. I therefore have reason to believe that, in the case of skilful management and management, it will be possible to guarantee the same level of pay in the marine academy as in other higher education institutions. I hope that this issue will be dealt with seriously. I have reason to believe that Rector Lindpere, who has taken office, is paying due attention to this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U161	Thank you, Mr Mailis Reps! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U162	Thank you. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U163	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned in a number of responses that before any decision is taken, the problem must be fully examined. Various development plans have been discussed here in the Riigikogu Hall and one of them was Estonian Maritime Policy 2011 True, it was approved by the government. There is a provision for identifying the demand for maritime education in Estonia by 2013, i.e. for the coming year, and consequently to confirm the concept until 2014. Has such work started and is it taking place within the time frame foreseen by the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U164	Such a time frame is indeed foreseen. Given the importance of this issue and the need to go through institutional accreditation in 2014, I hope that this work will be completed significantly more quickly. Otherwise, at one point, when we have concept and mapping, studies and analyses, we may no longer have an accredited maritime higher education. Therefore, I think it is reasonable to proceed without delay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U165	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U166	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I have always liked your opinions, where you fight against the so-called lumpiness and look very wide on educational matters. Marine education is perhaps one of those things that is quite international in substance. Do you see that the development of marine education in particular could have any opportunities for greater integration with, for example, Finnish, Swedish or, more generally, maritime education providers in other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U167	My answer can only be quite general: it could not be, it should be. Maintaining an independent marine academy with a broad profile or even a wider profile as a population of 1.3 million is a major challenge. If Finland and Sweden, countries significantly larger than us, let alone wealth, consider integration and closer cooperation to be necessary, it is unthinkable that Estonia should not take steps in this direction. I imagine that, in the case of a reasonable division of labour, the Estonian Maritime Academy should be an institution where at least our Baltic neighbours would receive maritime education, but why not also Baltic neighbours in a broader sense, i.e. wishers from all other countries along the Baltic Sea. After all, we have developed the competence of Kaliningrad and Leningrad education institutions in an important part of our maritime competence today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U168	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U169	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, When you answered the question, you said that financing was practically the same as other higher education units. However, compared to the College of Flights and the Academy of the Seas, to see how much a student place costs, I guess I'm not wrong to say that the difference is five to six times the difference. But we know that responsibility and complexity in the field are almost the same and that simulators have the same complexity. How do you intend to resolve this contradiction in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U170	Good questioner! This contradiction is considerably smaller than your question could be considered. The idea that only the warheads of large ships are being trained at the marine academy is far from true. There are a number of study programmes at the Maritime Academy, which do not differ significantly from the quite normal curricula of the technical university or even other universities of applied sciences, either from the technical and manufacturing, transport services or natural sciences study group, which, indeed, did not receive accreditation. The profession of navigator, which is indeed the study programme with a factor of 3, forms a significantly smaller part of the marine academy's curricula than at the aerospace academy, where the emphasis is on training pilots and persons in charge of air security. So this mechanical comparison doesn't give us the right picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U171	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U172	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! You guys have been talking a lot about the mismanagement that's been done at the marine academy. But I didn't understand your answers well if the Ministry had any complaints about the quality of education there. I do not have the statistics, but I am more or less certain that these people are definitely not on the books at the unemployment fund, for example, they are quite well employed in the labour market. Are these standards still in line with what the state is asking for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U173	In terms of quality, emotional assessments may be made, peer reviews may be carried out, views may be taken on the basis of various statistical indicators, including employment indicators. All of these give a somewhat different result, but in Estonia there is a mechanism for evaluating curricula in accordance with the law, and it must therefore be noted that the assessment of marine academy curricula was not the highest in the middle. I very much hope that the conclusions of the transitional evaluation have been drawn, and enough attention has been paid to the need for a positive assessment of the forthcoming institutional accreditation. As regards the application of marine academy graduates, it must be noted that the data is incomplete and incomplete, with indirect data indicating that a significant proportion of marine academy graduates do not work on the territory of Estonia and under the flag of the Estonian state, but do indeed sail on the world's seas at the service of many international entrepreneurs. It would therefore be very reasonable to analyse the feasibility of the taxpayer's costs of continuing to finance such employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U174	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U175	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In addition to commercial ships, the national structures of the officers need a border guard, the Maritime Administration and certainly the Navy of the Defence Forces. Where will they get maritime specialists when marine education is demolished in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U176	Good questioner! So it seems to you that marine education is being demolished with terrible momentum. Well, how can I help you? I keep thinking we're trying to improve our marine education, but you guys are seeing scrappers somewhere. If you ever catch those scrapers, tell me where they're hiding, what kind of men-women they are, and what kind of thoughts they're gonna tear down a worthy thing like marine education. As far as specialists are concerned, they are still obtained from good Estonian maritime universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U177	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U178	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! In the speaking round, I will certainly comment on the issue of dismantling, but now the question: do you think that the difficult financial economy in the marine academy, as you said, may also result from various decisions taken during the various ministers and the various rectors, including the rector's section? Various plans have been made, perhaps even to detailed plans, and a whole new building complex has been transferred, to which several dormitories were to be added. Could it affect today's economic activity that spatial planning has also been in a slightly unfavourable situation for almost decades?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U179	The next question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Valeri Korbi, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamme, Kalle Laaneti, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vasiliyev, Mailis Reps and Aadu on 15 February for the closure of the rescue command of Võnnu. Peter Võsa, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U180	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Centre Party Group and Minister. Indeed, a month and a half ago, we made an inquiry into the closure of Võnnu's rescue command. So, what was that all about? The story was that this year the Rescue Board is planning to close nine commandos all over Estonia. Although the government is talking about the reorganisation of the Rescue Board as a way to improve lifesaving capabilities, the closure of local commandos is losing people's sense of security. A collection of signatures has been initiated on several sides against the closure of rescue operations. The parish elders have sent protest letters to the Rescue Board, the Ministry and also the President, both jointly and individually. But all of this has remained the voice of a shouter in the desert. One closed rescue command is the Võnnu commando, which is indispensable for the Võnnu region of south-eastern Tartu and northern Põlva County. The pretext for closing is a small number of inhabitants in the region, a lack of life-saving capacity and economic savings. The address of Ahja, Haaslava, Meeksi, Mooste, Mäksa and Võnnu rural municipality government to the heads of state points out that, according to a cross-estonian survey, there are 20 to 30% more people living in this area than have actually been registered. Thus, the number of inhabitants in the service area of the command exceeds 5000, which is the criterion for the existence of the command. In addition, this is a sparsely populated area, which means that the commando from Tartu, Räpina or Põlva will not reach many villages in the area within the required 20 minutes. There are several timber companies, livestock farms, one of the largest forest and bog areas in Estonia, care hospital, nursing home, upper secondary school, kindergarten and primary school. It is therefore vital that a permanent rescue team is maintained in the region. In this regard, we have three questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U181	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Please speak with the esteemed Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your questioning. There are three questions in the question. The first question: 'How is Võnnus planning to organise a switch to the use of voluntary rescuers when the command is closed? ' Neither the Ministry of the Interior nor the Rescue Board can create volunteering, but we can support it as much as possible and inspire people. The Rescue Board has met with the Võnnu Municipality Government (the last one was on 27 March, then last week) and explained the possibilities for the Rescue Board to support volunteering. Specific steps have also been taken to ensure that the Võnnu municipality, together with the surrounding municipalities, is set up to establish a voluntary rescue command of a non-profit organisation. The recruitment, encouragement of volunteers is currently underway, the next steps and a training plan will be renegotiated in the second half of April. What have we done this year as a whole to support voluntary rescuers? Firstly, in 2012, a total of EUR 50000 will be granted from the state budget in the areas of the commandos undergoing restructuring, including Võnnus, to support the start-up of voluntary rescue operations, and each of the commanders undergoing restructuring will have a coordinator responsible until the end of the year. Secondly, there are volunteer rescue coordinators at the Rescue Board and each rescue centre, whose task is to support voluntary rescue activities, to encourage people to become volunteers and to assist them fully. Thirdly, the total funding for the voluntary rescue area has increased by 50% in 2012, while the operational support for the free rescue union has increased by 100% compared to last year. Fourthly, the Rescue Board also provides inventory and technology for volunteers. The second question: 'There are several wood companies and large forest and bog areas located in the given region with a high risk of fire. To what extent is the safety of the area's inhabitants in the event of major fires ensured? 'Võnnu Rescue Command currently has 10 staff. Unfortunately, this composition does not allow for the provision of a minimum of 3 personnel needed to locate a major fire or save human lives on any day of the year, but in the course of the restructuring of the rescue command 25 rescue troops across Estonia have not yet been able to establish and ensure a permanent life-saving capability within the rescue team. In the context of the explanation, the annual departure load of the Võnnu rescue command is nearly four times lower than the average exit load of the rescue command in Estonia: Võnnu has 9.7 trips per month and Estonia has an average of 35.4%. The third question: 'The Minister of Regional Affairs attaches importance to the development of entrepreneurship in rural areas. Why should an undertaking be located in an area where even rescue capacity is not guaranteed? ' Rescue capabilities are guaranteed even after restructuring, and I would say more. However, no rescue action can be more successful than prevention, which is the first priority, i.e. preventing an accident from beginning. I am absolutely convinced that both economic operators and the general public are interested in not creating a fire rather than dealing with the consequences. It is certainly very important to have an adequate response to accidents, but the most important thing, however, is to try to do everything in order to keep fires from starting. I will give an example of one of the initiatives of this year. The Ministry of the Interior is also planning to highlight private-sector cooperation partners, i.e. business partners, who contribute to the development of free will in the area of internal security, we want to pay attention to those private-sector companies that favour free-willing. The prevention work has made significant progress in Estonia in general. Compared to 2007, the number of deaths in 2011 has fallen from 164 to 73, a decrease of 55% and has largely been achieved as a result of prevention. The number of fires has fallen from 14900 to 6400. Of course, one of the important objectives of prevention this year is also to pay particular attention to raising awareness among the population in the areas of restructuring, significantly increasing the number of home visits, dissemination of information material, information days on prevention, etc. The last question is what will happen if the permanent rescue unit is not shut down without a voluntary rescue unit being set up. The answer is very simple: a voluntary rescue team is also emerging for Võnnu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U183	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. There are no questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U184	The next question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Peeter Võsa, Aadu Musta, Kalle Laaneti, Priit Toobali, Lauri Laas, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Lembit Kaljuvee, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme and Mailis Repsi on 16 February (No 120). Once again, I would like to ask my colleague, Peter Võsa, to speak to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U185	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, In principle, this inquiry is similar to the previous one to which the Minister has just replied. Before we can start listening to the Minister's answers, I would like to draw attention to a few more things that have happened in the Võsu Rescue Command. We learned from the Virumaa Official Journal that this command has been decided to liquidate, to allow rescue workers to have jobs or to make offers. We read in the paper that these offers have not been made. In addition, the residents of Vihula municipality have collected 700 supporting signatures, which have also been forwarded to the Ministry of the Interior. Similarly, according to the local newspaper Virumaa's Official Journal, locals responded that collecting signatures is an unjustified panic and no direct decision has yet been made about the Võsu commando. That was then, a month and a half ago. It was also promised that, if a decision was taken, the signatures of the residents of Vihula Municipality, which were given against the closure of the Võsu Rescue Command, would be taken into account. We have four questions in this regard. We expect answers from the Minister that have become of all of this today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U186	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U187	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your questioning. There are four questions. The first question: "What about the ten rescuers in Võsu who have not yet received specific job offers? " For all ten rescuers in Võsu, specific job offers have been made. Everyone was also personally consulted about the change in their place of employment so that the individual needs of each individual's place of residence could be taken into account when making a specific job offer. At the moment, only two out of ten rescuers were reluctant to accept a job offer, or eight accepted a job offer. The second question: 'What plan has the Ministry of the Interior developed to support Võsu volunteer rescuers? ' When I answered the previous question, I gave an overview of the steps we have planned for this year, and I have told you about this before. The basis for state support for voluntary rescuers is uniform and may vary only in terms of the size of the additional contributions of the local government, i.e. in terms of financial support to the NGO. In addition, I can add so much that on 16 May 2012 Võsul will start to work as a contract partner of the Rescue Board, a non-profit fire-fighting organisation that will provide rescue services on the basis of a voluntary rescue command, in which the current rescue commanders of Võsu will continue to work as volunteers. The inventory of the equipment to be transferred, the preparation of the cooperation agreement and the start-up grant agreement, as well as activities related to the transfer of real estate to the local government, are currently underway. Question 3: "Does the closure of the Võsu Rescue Command include the location of the Lahemaa National Park in the Võsu Rescue Command Service Area? ' This has been taken into account in the analysis of the Võsu rescue command, based on Võsu rescue command's real exit statistics, which do not show an increase in departures due to the existence of Lahemaa National Park. It must also be said that, unfortunately, it is shortsighted to think that a team of one to two members of the Võsu Rescue Command, as it has been so far, would be sufficient to control a recently discovered and already enlarged forest fire. Over 200 days a year, the Võsu Rescue Command has two members. The national rescue commanders near Võsu and Lahemaa National Park will be strengthened in Kunda, Loksa and Tapa. Depending on the location of the fire in the Lahemaa National Park, the Võsu Commando may be arriving only a few minutes later in the departure area, but the difference in response quality is noticeable. There is also the emergence of new volunteer rescue teams in the Lahemaa area. In addition to the existing Kadrina command, volunteers in Kärmu village in Haljala rural municipality and Võsul, a non-profit organisation for fire services on 16 May will be added in 2012. Question 4: "Was the closure of the Võsu Rescue Command also taking into account the referral of 700 local residents to the Ministry, or was this citizens' initiative overlooked? ' Of course, we didn't ignore it. It's ours. However, in the Ministry of the Interior and the Rescue Board, who are the maker of the relevant decisions and also of the thorough analysis, we need to approach the issue more broadly, 'cross command', to look at Estonia more broadly, as I have explained to you. Rescuers and rescue crews must be in position, rescue capabilities must be where there are more people, where more accidents occur and there is a greater risk of more serious accidents. The number of exits in one month is four times smaller than the average in Estonia, there are slightly more than 9 trips per month and the number of inhabitants is slightly more than 2000, which is a very small number of inhabitants, given the general location of the Estonian population and population density. These reorganisations are, in our view, necessary to bring the rescue resource into line with the changed risks in the regions and also to provide a stable "full service," including, of course, life-saving capabilities for as many people as possible. In a period of up to 15 minutes, more than 121000 people in Estonia will receive full service, which means a significant improvement in rescue capacity and rescue service throughout Estonia. Lifesaving services also mean, as you know, that a rescue team of at least three will be able to drive out to resolve the situation, in particular to save people's lives and provide other full-service assistance. In short, the aim of all of this is to put an end to a situation where some commandos are closed for a part of the year or only one firefighter goes out of it. Our aim is to provide as many Estonian residents as possible with the service that is necessary according to European standards in order to respond adequately to the need to save people's lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U188	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U189	Thank you. I have a very short and specific question. Where and when will the rescue commanders be shut down in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U190	Rescue Commands will be restructured and rescue Commands will be restructured in 2012. The restructuring concerns nine rescue commandos.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U191	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U192	Thank you. I don't have such a specific and so short question. My question is a little longer. I am quite surprised that we have evidently now discovered, on a voluntary basis, a wabbit that can be applied to improve life in such a beautiful and wonderful way. Yes, in the area of salvation, voluntary traditions are undoubtedly long and can be understood. However, this is an area where people study, receive higher education, become top specialists, and volunteering may not improve everything. You could draw a parallel here. I know that county hospitals are being shut down and turned into nursing hospitals. Perhaps this voluntary principle could also suffer to be transferred...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U193	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U194	... so that operations are conducted by local interested parties? What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U195	Thank you for your question. We've been discussing this quite a number of times here, but I can try to respond again calmly and very briefly. Volunteering is not a substitute for professional rescue, which I have confirmed here several and several times. Volunteering can be parallel to a functioning professional rescue network. The purpose of these reorganisations is to offer more than 120,000 people from all over Estonia a significantly better full professional service than today. This means that we will be able to raise the quality of the rescue service and bring it to a greater number of people than we are now. Why are we even talking about volunteering in connection with these reorganisations? Because it makes perfect sense that certain first-level services, first-level responses are provided in as many places as possible in Estonia, be they smaller villages, larger rural municipalities, sparsely populated areas, volunteer as many as possible in all villages in Estonia. Volunteering in Estonia is extremely underdeveloped, so it is not possible to talk about volunteering too much. We are actually still talking too little about this and so far there are too few actions, but this is inevitably due to our history. During the period of occupation, volunteering, to say the least, was not too appreciated and, therefore, the historical traditions in Estonia, which are really, as you rightly said, long, should be restored. I see a very clear will in many parts of Estonia, but I repeat: the ability of professionals to rescue and rescue is one thing, free will is parallel to it, complementary to it, and they certainly do not replace each other. In these places, which we are also talking about today, such as Võsu, where there are 2,000 people and where there are clear beginnings for volunteering, we want to give maximum support to this origin. But when it comes to saving people's lives, volunteering isn't enough. There are many other full services, such as adequate responses to serious road accidents, where the role of rescue teams is, as we know, very important. In this case too, a smaller number of men than is necessary for full service is unfortunately not enough. Not to mention chemical accidents and other things that, God forbid, hopefully Estonia will not have, will not be, or will be as little as possible, and we can prevent them. But in any case, if serious consequences need to be eliminated, they must be dealt with by a trained professional and at least a three-member watch-keeping team.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U196	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U197	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In reply to Mr Toobal's question, you mentioned that nine rescue officers were to be shut down in 2012. Is it planned to continue closing in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U198	I have also answered this question earlier: with the restructuring of the rescue teams, which has been discussed in this semester and one of the deadlines of 16 May, we want to put a stop to the organisation of the rescue team network.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U199	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Since there are no requests, negotiations will not be opened.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U200	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo and Priit Toobali on 21 February. a request for information on the availability of national legal aid. My colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U201	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in this Chamber? Dear Minister, In Estonia, access to legal aid is provided by the State Legal Aid Act. The purpose of the Act is to ensure that all persons have timely and adequate access to a competent and reliable legal service. However, according to the State Legal Aid Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2006, an application for legal aid must be submitted in Estonian. The application can also be submitted in English on certain occasions, for example by a citizen of the European Union. Under the current law, the possibility of filing an application for legal aid in any language other than Estonian and, in some cases, English is excluded. However, according to the latest census (I am referring to the census in 2000), Russian is the native language of about one third of the population of the country. The results of the census and recent sociological studies (e.g. Monitoring the integration of Estonian society 2008) are known that a significant part of the local population does not speak Estonian well or at all. In particular, pensioners and older people have major problems with Estonian language. Also, according to the 2000 census, the most common foreign language in Estonia is not English, but the most common foreign language in Estonia is still Russian. The submission of an application for legal aid cannot be considered a simple undertaking even for a person for whom the Estonian language is the mother tongue. It is necessary to provide in the application a description of the problem for which the application for legal aid is made and a justification for the need to obtain legal aid for the protection of the rights of the applicant. A zillion more details must be shown, starting with a net income and ending with a family. Since a significant proportion of the uninsured population of non-Estonian origin does not speak the Estonian language at all or does not possess it at the required level to apply for state legal aid, they must seek the means to translate the application into Estonian. The translation service in Estonia is not cheap. In other words, Russian-speaking uninsured non-Estonians may find themselves in objective difficulties when they apply for state legal aid. In this context, we have five questions for the Minister, to which we expect constructive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U202	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Please, the Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U203	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As always, thank you for your interesting questions. The first question: 'How does the state in practice guarantee access to state legal aid for non-insured non-Estonians who speak Estonian with Russian native language? " To begin with, it should be noted that the Constitution provides the Estonian language as the official language of Estonia. In addition, according to the laws of the court proceedings, the working language of the court is Estonian, which means that the court proceedings and the court proceedings are held in Estonian. As a result, national support systems are built on the assumption that people living in Estonia should speak Estonian. This assumption also includes the development of forms for the application of state aid, which can be completed relatively easily. In addition, lawyers have an obligation to ensure that the legal aid holder who has recourse to the law firm is informed of the grounds and procedures for obtaining legal aid from the State. This counselling is done without payment of a fee. In addition, low-insured people are able to turn to non-profit organisations and foundations that provide so-called "primary legal advice." This does not constitute State aid. In this year's state budget, EUR 85000 has been earmarked for providing legal aid to vulnerable non-profit organisations, with an amount of EUR 29061 last year. Thus, this allocation is almost three times larger than in previous years. People who need legal advice, including help in drawing up a document, can contact a non-profit organisation that provides legal advice free of charge. The legal advice will be given in Tallinn, Tartu, Jõhvi, Rakvere and Võru by the Foundation Legal Services Bureau and NGO Estonian Lawyers' Association. Whoever's been watching the news has seen the Lawyer's Association opening up such legal counsel under the name of legal pharmacies. I consider such cooperation between foundations and non-profit organisations and the state to be essential for people to get legal advice. But receiving help is not dependent on the knowledge of the Estonian language; there are also Russian-speaking people who receive help. I would like to add that this year the state budget allocation for state aid has increased by EUR 852787. As you can see, this is quite a rise. The second question: 'What justifies the existence of a special language regime for citizens of other European Union countries that make up a small group of Estonian people? Which part of all applications for legal aid will be made in English by Estonian residents? ' Outside Estonia, people living in countries of the European Union can obtain an adequate translation in Estonian is much more limited. Pursuant to Council Directive 2003/8/EC of 27 January 2003 of the European Union, applications for legal aid and supporting documents shall be translated into the official language or one of the languages of the Member States of the competent authority, in accordance with one of the languages of the Community institutions. The Member State shall provide the Commission with information on the languages which may be used to complete the request. In the light of the above, and in view of the common legal space pursued in the European Union and the principle of equal treatment and free movement of persons in the European Union, persons residing and operating outside Estonia who are resident or established in another Member State of the European Union are, by way of exception, allowed to submit an application in English. In English, precisely because it is the foreign language most spoken in Europe. The majority of Estonian officials also have this foreign language. A person who has his or her place of residence in another European Union Member State may need legal assistance from the Estonian State, for example in cross-border matrimonial matters or enforcement matters. This option does not apply to people living in Estonia, whose native language is Russian for your example. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, unfortunately, I am unable to give a precise answer to this, as there is no separate electronic record of such requests and I am not sure, frankly, whether there is an urgent need for it. The third question: 'How often do citizens of other countries of the European Union who live outside the borders of Estonia and the European Union apply for state legal aid? How often do natural persons residing in another Member State of the European Union or legal persons established in another Member State of the European Union apply for state legal aid? In what language do they usually apply? ' As I said in my previous reply, I am unfortunately unable to answer these questions because such requests are not subject to separate electronic records. Question 4: 'Article 12 of the Constitution provides for equality before the Law. Do you consider a situation in which a small proportion of foreigners living in Estonia (citizens of other countries of the European Union) have the right to file an application for legal aid in English, but almost one third of the population, including both third-country nationals and Estonian citizens, have been deprived of the opportunity to file the application in their own language (Russian)? " I believe that this situation is not in conflict with the Constitution. As I noted earlier, the possibilities for people living outside Estonia to obtain an adequate translation in Estonian are considerably limited, which is why such an exception is necessary. At the same time, Russian-speaking people have not been deprived of access to state legal aid. Translation options are easily accessible. In addition, people who do not have the means to pay for the translation service will be able to contact non-profit organisations or foundations that provide legal advice free of charge and find help there. As I said before, if this amount was in the order of EUR 29,000 a year ago, this year the amount to be allocated to the legal advice is EUR 85000. This is in proportion to the highest increase in the Ministry of Justice's budget. This may also indicate the priority given by the Ministry of Justice to free primary legal advice for underprivileged residents. Question 5: "Do you consider it necessary to amend the law on state legal aid in such a way as to allow the application for state legal aid to be made in Russian as the most common foreign language in Estonia? If so, in what way? ' The Ministry of Justice does not consider it necessary to amend the law on state legal aid in such a way as to allow the application for state legal aid to be filed in Russian, as the Estonian state language is Estonian and legal proceedings take place in Estonian. If we were to implement the design proposed in the question, we would place the translation burden on the country, which is neither reasonable nor practical. Honourable heirs! Thanks again for the questions. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U204	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U205	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I listened to you closely enough, but I did not get an answer to the main question. All the money you have spoken about, legal aid and these non-profit organisations will not solve this first step problem, which is linked to the application that a person can ask for free legal aid. I ask you this question: where is this service available free of charge to a person, if there is such a place?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U206	Thank you. In answer to the first question, this was the answer. It's embarrassing to quote myself again, but I will. Under this assumption, forms have also been developed to apply for state legal aid, which can be completed relatively easily. In addition, law firms have an obligation to ensure that the legal aid rules and procedures of the state are clarified to those in need of legal aid who have addressed the law firm. This counselling is done without payment of a fee. In addition, vulnerable persons will be able to obtain free legal advice. Like I said, we think it's very important. This year, the amount allocated for free legal advice increased significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U207	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U208	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Of course, no one here in the Riigikogu is questioning the fact that Estonian is the official language, and I hope that in society at large too. I hope that there will also be no discussion in Estonia on a serious level. You said the application form was simple. You certainly know that banking, and the private sector at all, is using the possibility that the forms are usually in Estonian, but the same form is also translated under glass. You stressed several times that the application form was very simple. Have you considered doing something like this to Russian-speaking people, so a person can take the form of an Estonian-language application, but he can fill it out himself without asking anyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U209	Thank you. As you yourself said, the official language of Estonia is Estonian. I think our common aspirations are aimed at ensuring that people living in Estonia can do things in Estonian and understand the same Estonian language. Different translation services are also offered. In fact, these forms are simple. In addition, if a person does not know how to write a statement or has any other questions, there is also provision for advice on legal aid, which is done without payment. In fact, a person may go and ask for legal advice. These are two different things: free legal advice and legal aid. In my opinion, this is not unnaturally difficult. It is arranged in such a way that people can apply for and receive help.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U210	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U211	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I want to be more specific. You said that a person can contact a law firm or a non-profit organisation. But I have this question: did you mean all the law firms or one particular one? The same is the case for non-profit organisations. Without the names, it got a little confusing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U212	Thank you. I can explain a little bit. Understanding may sometimes depend on terms. One thing is legal aid. That's what they get from the court and what lawyers say. The amount for this was 60 million in old money before the legal aid reform. That's actually quite a lot of money. The Bar Association organises how this assistance is provided. This amount increased by EUR 850000 in the previous year. Attorneys-at-Law advise on how to obtain legal aid without paying a fee. There are opportunities for that. The second thing is free legal advice. This is not necessarily provided by lawyers, but by associations of lawyers or foundations, for example. There go people who are less insured, who do not take a lawyer or go to a law firm. They go to that foundation and ask for advice. This legal provision is intended for situations where a person does not know whether he or she needs to take a lawyer, whether he or she needs to apply to the courts. Maybe it's a rental dispute, maybe some other dispute. The State, in cooperation with the third sector, will ensure that people who are underprivileged or people who do not go to a lawyer immediately receive legal advice. They can ask different languages how and what to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U213	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U214	The final question is the members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lembit Kaljuvee, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luigase, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamme, Kalev Kallo, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vasiliyev and Yana Toomi on 22 February. a request for an unreasonably long trial in Estonia. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U215	Madam President! I have a procedural question. You have the text of this inquiry. It is written on the other side of this page: 'Add: European Court of Human Rights. Declaration on page 10. ' I don't know where that extra is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U216	It's an internal working document. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U217	Madam President! When I gave you this question, I didn't get any response to the fact that not all 11 pages would arrive in the hall, but only one. Knowing that, I might have duplicated the text myself. Although I do not know the case that if a member of the Riigikogu has submitted an inquiry or a draft law, someone else has decided that a few pages need to be taken out of an explanatory statement, draft or inquiry. I don't see how that's possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U218	We will discuss this issue in the future. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U219	I have more questions with extras. I would just like to know in advance that the next time there will be an inquiry into the hall, for example, relating to objects built illegally, whether or not the Riigikogu Board will have the annexes reproduced. I need to speak to the Minister now on the basis of an incomplete document. That's unfair. Perhaps the Minister would like to read this addition.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U220	The minister's got that extra. Let's go to the last question. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U221	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Please ask a question, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U222	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a dozen questions, but I can only ask one. Did I understand correctly that the situation is that hundreds of people will be detained during the year, they will be imprisoned and then dozens or quite many will prove innocent, and it is actually the fault that they cannot find judges in Ida-Virumaa? Then who's to blame? I don't understand that logic. You can't find judges, and people have to sit in jail for a long time without explanation. What kind of explanation is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U223	Thank you. First of all, you asked if you understood. I think the question must be answered yes or no. I'll say no, you haven't quite got it right. People don't sit in needless custody without explanation, as you said. I repeat, for more than six months, 23 suspects were held in custody in 2011, all of whom were involved in organised crime or drug crime. When it comes to finding judges, you know, and I know that it is difficult to find good, qualified specialists for some areas of life in Ida-Viru County. In fact, it is the concern of the entire Estonian state; efforts must be made here. For our part, we have worked hard to find judges, and we will continue to do so. I dare say that the status of judges, reputation and other social guarantees, including wages, are not so poor that we will not find people there in the future. Well, we all have to work to make sure that Ida-Virumaa has a better reputation and that people can be found there. But I don't think it's necessary to paint this picture as black as if people were illegally held in custody. This is not happening in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U224	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U225	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm trying to ask a question according to the logic of the ordinary person. The person was arrested, i.e. there were grounds to act like this. The man was in custody for six months after being released and goodbye. Hence the question: Is this normal, and how do you even appreciate that a person had to sit down for six months of his life, even though not all of these bases were true? Where's the mistake, though, because in the past six months, lawyers worked?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U226	Thank you. Once again, I am not going to comment on a specific matter. As I said before, if this barrier is chosen, different circumstances will be assessed. These include assessing whether a person can continue to commit crimes, whether he can destroy the evidence and any other circumstances, such as the severity of the sentence. I think that's actually the answer to your question. In Estonia, people are not taken into custody for no reason. In the end, however, it is decided by the court. Painting a picture of people being taken into custody somewhere for a long time, I think, is not correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U227	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U228	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Yesterday or the day before, I read about what police officers are thinking, why they don't want to go to work in Ida-Viru County. Then why do you think the judges don't want to go to work in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U229	Thank you. It's a tough question. I think that members of the Riigikogu should also seek the answer, why is it that there is no such environment in Ida-Viru County that people would like to go to work there. One of my good colleagues from the Ministry of Justice just recently went to Ida-Virumaa as a judge. In his eyes, I saw the spark, the desire to go to work as a judge. It may vary individually, but I think that the interest of the entire Estonian state is to ensure that there is such an environment in Ida-Virumaa that people go there to work and get involved in this area, so that there is no different regime. I think we're gonna have to work on that. One or more performers, including Mr Stalnukhin, should make an effort to do so, rather than paint the picture so black. This filth may also be one reason why people do not dare to go to the area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U230	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm sorry, I'm getting distracted. You said a few minutes ago that no one in Estonia would be detained without foundation and there should be no problem. I read about the question that a man was in prison for six months without any grounds. How do you comment on that anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U231	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U232	Madam President! I ask that the next time some part of the inquiry is taken out, at least the questioner is informed. I understood that the Minister has read both the inquiry and the appendix, so I am not going to read the text. I'm gonna tell you a story. It's a pretty typical story. When you meet someone who's been in prison for several months on the basis of some suspicion, sometimes even six months, and you ask him what he found out was useful, what the investigation was, and how they went, you often hear such an answer that there was nothing there. For example, a person sat in prison for six months, and on the second day he was marched into his cell and asked if he would sign a confession or complain about himself and regret what he did not do, or if he would remain seated. When the questioners were answered no, they disappeared and arrived after two months with the exact same question because the lawyer had filed an application for release. Again, a person refused to admit a lie against him and continued to sit down. I don't know if the minister knows a last name like Vyšinski. He was a well-known lawyer in the 1930s, whose original statement was this: "A confession is the Queen of Evidence. ' Mr. Minister! According to the European Court of Human Rights, more and more human rights are being violated in the Republic of Estonia. It happens for the simple reason that it is much easier to blackmail a person when he is placed in a cell. This fate can wait for any person in our country, no one is safe from it. The kind of talk I was talking about, I've heard it many times. It's getting pretty typical. It seems to me that we are far behind in time, we are moving towards the processes of 1937 and 1938. Soon, even suspicion may no longer have to be presented, just to get a person caught and thrown in a cell and that's it. I don't think that's normal. I think that such a thing should be avoided in a civilised country, all the more so since in 2010 the European Court of Human Rights criticised Estonia for an unreasonablely long trial. There's another side to this mess. If a person has been kept in a cell for a few months or six months, it will be necessary to prove his or her guilt after he or she has done so. What they're going to do is this is a separate story we're going to talk about some other day. That's it. So, on the basis of both the text of this inquiry and the ten pages of the missing annex, I will ask and ask another eleven members of the Riigikogu to the Minister six questions. In terms of time savings, I'm not going to read them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U233	Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U234	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your questions and I will try to clarify interesting topics. The first question: 'Why does Estonia not fulfil its obligation under the European Convention on Human Rights to judge within a reasonable period of time or, in the event of this inability, to release a person from detention facilities during court proceedings? " First of all, honourable heirs, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it was only on 5 March. I answered questions of a similar nature in this very Chamber, and I must repeat what has been said today on 5 March. Reasonable time is an undefined legal term and cannot be assessed unambiguously. Both the European Court of Human Rights and the Supreme Court have stressed that the assessment of the duration of proceedings must be based on the specific features of a particular procedural case, including the seriousness of the crime, the complexity and size of the case. Nor does the Ministry have the authority to intervene in specific procedural matters or to evaluate them, which makes it difficult for me to say whether or not it was a reasonable time in one case or another. It's still a court-martial mission. However, it is certainly not a lack of action or negligence on the part of the law enforcement authority in the event of the suspect being held in custody for a long time. The choice of any restraining order, and in particular the need for arrest, shall take into account the possibility of circumvention of criminal proceedings, the continuation of criminal offences or the destruction, alteration or counterfeiting of evidence, taking into account the identity of the suspect, his or her health, his or her marital status and other factors relevant to the application of the seals. Arrest is requested by the prosecutor's office, but the admissibility of the application of the arrest is decided by the investigating judge. The arrest warrant is contested. Later, in a case already pending before the Court, the accused has the opportunity to apply for an amendment of the seal and the judge can also, on his own initiative, lift the seal if he considers that the grounds for holding the person in custody have fallen. The number of legitimate arrests has been reduced over the past several years by introducing new alternative types of seals. For example, in 2010 the Code of Criminal Procedure was supplemented by a provision that allows for the replacement of arrest by electronic surveillance. It is also possible to replace the arrest by bail. The presumptions of arrest and its legal basis are always assessed by the court. Arrest shall be possible only if, in the interests of the proceedings, it is indeed necessary and possible. However, the number of arrests cannot be significantly affected, as the application of the arrest is already subject to strict conditions and requirements and ultimately depends on the criminal offence and suspected persons. I would also add that on 1 September 2011, amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which allow the Public Prosecutor's Office to close criminal proceedings, came into force if the pre-trial procedure shows that the criminal case cannot be settled within a reasonable period of time. If it is established at the trial that the criminal case cannot be settled within a reasonable period of time and the violation of the accused's right to trial within a reasonable period of time cannot be otherwise remedied, the court may, with the consent of the accused, close the criminal proceedings. A party to legal proceedings may also request the court to take a measure suitable for the speedy conclusion of legal proceedings if the case has been in judicial proceedings for at least nine months and the court does not take the necessary procedural action without good reason to ensure that the judicial proceedings are carried out within a reasonable period of time. Finally, I would like to add that a long arrest has already become very exceptional in pre-trial proceedings since 2005. A person may be held in custody for more than six months only in exceptional circumstances at the request of the Attorney General. In 2011, such a request was made for 23 suspects. These were all complex criminal cases involving organised crime or drug crime. The second question: 'Do you think that the taking of evidence is a sufficient reason to keep a person in detention for an unreasonable length of time, or should the important evidence on the basis of which prosecution can be made be collected before a person is arrested? ' As I said in response to the inquiry on 5 March, I would also say now that the initiation of proceedings, the admission of a person to be suspected and, more importantly, the arrest of a person requires that sufficient evidence has been gathered indicating the criminal offence and the involvement of a particular person in a possible criminal offence. Paragraph 127 of the Code of Criminal Procedure lists what needs to be taken into account when choosing a restraining order: 'When choosing a seal, account shall be taken of the possibility of circumvention of criminal proceedings or of continuing to commit criminal offences or of the destruction, alteration and counterfeiting of evidence, the severity of the sentence, the identity of the suspect, accused or convicted person, his health, his marital status and other factors relevant to the application of the restraining order. ' It is important to note that since 1 September 2011, the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility that an appeal may also be made against the order of the district court if the decision of the Supreme Court in this case is important for the uniform application of the law or for the development of the law. This possibility has already been used and there is also a Supreme Court decision on arrest. Paragraph 13 of the Supreme Court Regulation 3-1-1-105-11 of 1 February 2012 states that practice has designed a sufficiently clear legal framework for the resolution of arrests. The question of whether and to what extent this legal framework has been taken into account in the arrest warrant in order to justify the suspicion of the offence and the subject of the arrest can be the subject of the discussion. In a specific case, the Supreme Court annulled the orders of lower courts and released the person. It also provided sufficient guidance in its resolution, which should guide the courts in the future in deciding on the issue of the arrest of a person. Question 3: "What real effect does keeping a person in custody last six months in order to find out the truth? " The answer is given by answering both the first and the second questions. The presumptions of arrest and the legal basis shall always be assessed by the court and the arrest shall be possible only if, in the interests of the proceedings, it is indeed necessary and possible. If the judge considers the arrest to be justified, authorisation shall be granted. Authorisation may be challenged. According to § 146 of the Constitution, justice is exercised only by a court which is independent in its activities and which rules the law in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Once the necessary steps have been taken, the evidence has been collected and the person's detention is no longer justified for the purposes of the proceedings, the person must be released without delay. As stated in the above-mentioned Supreme Court ruling, the practice has developed a sufficiently clear framework for resolving arrests. I am convinced that, after this decision, in addition to the established practice, all courts will pay even more attention to whether and to what extent the legal framework has been taken into account in the arrest warrant in order to justify suspicion of crime and the subject of arrest. As § 2 (4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure states, the sources of criminal procedure law are also Supreme Court judgments on matters that have not been resolved in other sources of criminal procedural law, but have emerged from the application of the law. Question 4: How do you assess the situation in Estonia from the point of view of human rights? " When people are arrested and detained, their human rights are not violated, which is why we value the situation as a whole. § 20 (1) (3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia provides the basis for criminal proceedings by arrest. Paragraph 21 of the Constitution and Article 5 (3) of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms provide guarantees that the arrested or detained person shall be immediately brought before a judge or another official with legal personality and shall have the right to trial within a reasonable time or release until the case is discussed. These guarantees are contained in § 131 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which a suspect or accused person for whom an application for arrest has been made is transferred to the investigating judge by the investigating authority, upon order of the prosecutor's office. For the purpose of issuing the arrest warrant, the judge shall examine the file and question the person to be arrested in order to clarify the merits of the request for arrest. The opinion of the representatives of both parties shall be heard and, if there are no grounds for arrest, the person shall be released immediately. Arrest is compatible with the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms only if it is intended to bring a person to justice by a competent state body, that is to say, at the final stage, to decide whether he is guilty. In each individual case, the judge shall assess whether the person's arrest is sufficiently justified on the basis of the criteria set out in point 1 of this reply, as well as the reasons for holding the person in custody in the course of legal proceedings. If judicial proceedings are delayed, but there are reasonable grounds to believe that the accused is about to evade legal proceedings, it is well-founded to hold him in custody for more than six months in order to find out the truth. Question 5: "Why is the Court of Ida-Viru County unable to observe a reasonable period of proceedings? " The fact that the Viru County Court has very long proceedings in criminal matters is primarily due to the specific nature of the region. First of all, despite the announcement of a competition for several vacant judges, many of them are still outstanding, which is why Viru County Court judges have a much higher workload than judges from other regions. The Ministry of Justice has announced competitions to fill the vacant judges' seats. For example, in 2010 four competitions were launched to fill the judges' seats in Viru County Court, of which six failed. In 2011, four competitions were announced at the Viru County Court for seven judges, five of which failed. As of 1 March, four judges had not been filled in the Viru County Court. Viru County Court has also encountered more cases than average because the defendants have been declared wanted. They have mostly left Estonia to Russia, where they are harder to find. At the same time, it should be noted that in civil proceedings, the Viru County Court is at a level that is completely comparable to other courts. For example, in 2011, the average duration of civil proceedings in all county courts was 164 days, in Viru County Court 163 days, in Harju County Court 176 days, in Pärnu County Court 150 days and in Tartu County Court 146 days. Question 6: 'If the established judicial system is ineffective, should the state take responsibility for it? " According to the Ministry of Justice, the Estonian judicial system is not ineffective. In criminal proceedings, the longest period of proceedings is for cases settled in general proceedings. For example, compared to 2008, the average duration of proceedings in general proceedings in the county courts decreased by approximately 33%, from 514 to 345 days, while the average duration of proceedings in the general proceedings decreased by about 35% in 2011 compared to 2008, from 713 to 466 days in Viru County Court. I agree that the judicial system should continue to strive for shorter average procedural time in general proceedings in criminal matters. Since 2009, the Presidents of the Courts have been accountable to the Court for the proper functioning of justice before the Court of Justice. In the presentation, the Chairs will address problems encountered in the organisation of justice in court and possible solutions to these problems. Honourable heirs! Thank you again for the questions you have asked. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U235	Once again, I did not comment on a specific case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U236	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U237	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Of course, it is extremely understandable that the Minister of Justice is optimistic and says that no one is being held in custody in Estonia for no reason. But I believe that you are as well aware as some members of the Riigikogu of the fact that the European Court of Human Rights is even with a very strong democratic base and has highlighted as one of the most painful problems of countries with rather long democratic traditions that you meet quite simply, considering, but still determine this extreme barrier, or detention. Examples of people being forgotten in custody are unfortunately not rare in countries such as the Republic of Estonia. My question: are you familiar with the general direction of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and, as Minister of Justice, are you trying to do everything you can to make Estonia a beautiful exception here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U238	Thank you. I also pointed out in my response to the question that the number of arrests has been constantly reduced over the last few years. This is done, for example, by introducing different alternative types of seals. One of them is electronic surveillance, which I think you've all heard of. Another is bail. So they're looking for ways. There will certainly be no such thing in the Republic of Estonia in 2012 or in 2011 that we have read about historical novels when people were forgotten in the cell. I don't think it's appropriate to scare people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U239	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U240	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U241	I'm opening negotiations. My colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin, please. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U242	Mr. Minister! Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid you may not understand. No one is illegally detained in Estonia. The question is that the legality of detention is decided by someone who acts like a human being. To make sense, I would like to remind you of a story that happened in the city of Tartu. In my town of birth, in a beloved city, and in every sense in a nice city, there was suddenly such a fact that a deputy mayor had participated in 118 public procurements involving his companies, his relatives' companies and companies known to him. These 118 public procurements were related to construction and repair, and so on. I remember, with a lot of fear, he stepped back and then he came back to work for the city hall for a while. There was no detention, no conclusions were drawn. Today, this person lives happily anywhere in Finland. That's how much information I have. Neither the prosecutor's office nor the judge (the judge's case probably never arrived) found any element of crime there. I just couldn't find it. It's human. All the more so as it was, I apologize for the Estonian, the Tartian and the Reform Party. Then who's gonna be there looking for a crime? It's a little different in Narva. No one in Narva is insured for this. You may also be an angel with wings on his back, but when a couple of people write a complaint, the accusation is decided by specific people, and when it comes to the Russian, the Narva and the middle party, it will probably end very sadly. It's not like someone's getting locked up illegally. There are always legal bases. The problem is that the law does not guarantee equal treatment. What we are seeing now in Estonia is called political repression. It's the only way to take it. Mr. Minister! You didn't know the name of someone super-known in the law world like Vyšinski. I'll tell you a story about a deputy mayor of Narva. It was a energetic and good young woman whose subordinate went to a store in Narva and issued a 4,000-kroon fine. The owner of this store was offended, not by being fined, but by violating the city's administration. The inspector should first have made a remark and explained what would need to be fixed, then he should have imposed the original fine and the maximum fine he imposed, 4000 kroons, he could only have imposed as a third step. Mrs Homjakova explained to Mr Samson, the little official that it acted illegally, she violated the regulation. However, this was taken as a trade in influence. Mrs. Homjakova was pregnant at the time, but she was carried for questioning. She gave birth to a sick child, and at one point she died and was taken to a children's hospital. Kapo's employees came to Mrs. Homjakova to interrogate the reanimation department, the child suffered in the next room, but she was interrogated. Of the eight charges that were reported to me by the Kapo employees, there was only one thing left, after all, the fine thing. The fault of the lawyer is that, although compensation was received from the State, which was three times higher than the fine imposed, there was no more power to fight the system. You don't have to smile. You have to understand that you are at the top of a system that has reached the intersection. This system can change, it can remain humane and European, but it can also go down Võšinski road, towards these political processes if one city is destroyed only because there is a certain party in power that cannot be suppressed by other measures. It's happening to us day after day. You're always blaming us for being responsible for not wanting to live in this area. From you, or the government, I keep hearing what corruption is in Ida-Virumaa is called Narva. During the last three years, an assistant prosecutor, one judge and one Registrar have been charged with corruption and have received a real prison sentence in your system. At the same time, there were two cases among city officials, among those who work in the city administration or have been elected to the council. During the past year, he went to court and received a conviction of 233 corruption cases, before which there were more than 250. 5% of Estonian residents live in Narva, i.e. 1/20 of these cases should take place there, but there is on average one per year. You talk about corruption all the time instead of treating corruption in your system. I've been talking all day about what's going on in the Department of Defense and other places. You can say sweet. But salt doesn't get any sweeter than that. We will continue to meet with you and talk to you infinity about whether the system will come to its senses and work as the judiciary and prosecution system must work in a civilised country, or whether we will have nothing to discuss in a few years' time. If you think you're making a gun and that gun always starts shooting at one side, you're wrong. In the history of the world, sooner or later, it has become apparent that there is still a force that turns this weapon to the other side. I'm not thinking about myself or my partymates right now, there are others. Only when they're in jail, in a cell, or somewhere in a camp will they wonder what they did. So, Mr. Minister, I'll see you next time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U243	Mr Stalnukhin! Parallel to Vyšinski, I find it absolutely inappropriate. Once again, I would like to ask the honourable Minister of Justice for a chair. I know who Vychinski is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U244	Dear Chairman, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I don't mind seeing you. It's a pleasure to meet you. I think it is very normal for the members of the national legislative body to be concerned about the issues you are doing. I hope that in the future you will do this on the basis of honest and principled arguments rather than black-white painting. You started by discussing how only people belonging to the Centre Party were arrested and only in Narva, but then you gave a series of examples of how the justice system, the prosecutor's office or the police have, in the same way, removed those people who should not be part of it from their ranks. I think we'll meet in the future in this very hall, no matter what role. Firstly, be it very clear, there will be no political conviction in the Estonian state. The political level does not interfere in justice. They don't draw up political lists or search for people to be convicted. The law is understood by the court in the Republic of Estonia and the court carries out its work independently. I think you can always talk, and there are also listening ears who are willing to believe that there are lists in the Estonian country, who should be convicted and how. Rather, you should look at the fact that municipalities (this is clear when you look at corruption surveys and strategies to prevent corruption) are very often prone to corruption. These are always places where resources are distributed or power issues are decided. Dealing with this subject, I think, is exactly the same as your task, and you should set an example so that something like this will never happen again. Thank you! I think you're worried about the right things. I'm not going to comment on all your emotional claims. Maybe some questions are just emotionally very close to you, it's hard to appreciate. I have to do my job impartially. That's what I'm trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U245	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U246	Thank you. Dear Chairman, When will you know that the Chairman of the Riigikogu is one of the 101 members of the Riigikogu, he is not the boss of the members of the Riigikogu or the kindergarten teacher? It is completely inappropriate for you to comment or criticise the question or position of some of the speakers. It is also inappropriate to have a member of the Riigikogu on the board and present his or her position, but you are laughing. This is inappropriate, not what Mikhail Stalnukhin said.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U247	Mr Toobal, my dear colleague. I'm afraid you shouldn't teach me what's inappropriate and what's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U248	There is an opportunity to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U249	Madam President! I'll say three things. First of all, the parallel with Vyšinski is very relevant because he started out as a decent person, served the Temporal Government, and was a progressive person in every way. So what sometimes ends well can sometimes end up in some kind of nightmare. That's what we're talking about right now. That's another thing. I hope, Madam President, that you have read 'Chweiki'.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U250	I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U251	There's a place where Šveyk gets a letter from his housewife and the letter looks like this. Do you remember this place? It was about a puppy who died, but the words "soul cast" were scribbled. Madam President! It starts with you don't give me certain documents for reproduction, and it ends here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U252	We'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U253	One more thing. About four months ago, statistics disappeared from our website. I don't know what programming problems can be so huge. The rest of the system works, but try to look at statistics, such as speeches, speeches, other such things, which show what a member of the Riigikogu does. One of them says 0110, Nestor's got about 1,300. In the past, the voter could look at the statistics and understand who actually sits here and spends Monday nights with the unfortunate Head of the Riigikogu, who has a heartache, who deals with it. I think it's very strange. It's the first time I've ever seen such a thing. What does that mean? A rather dignified result of our work is being hidden from the public. What is the justification for not being able to produce statistics for four months? For God's sake, we have an electronic vote, we have an e-state. I haven't been to the bank in three years, everything can be done with a map. Here, however, there are simple statistics that are calculated mechanically: one plus one is two. There's no way to fix it! This should have been dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-02_U254	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 19.48 p.m.
