ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 36 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 65 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, we have nine issues registered today, which is why I can allow only two on-the-spot questions to be submitted in each case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U2	Let's go! Please, Mr Simson, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U3	Prime Minister! Today the Riigikogu is facing a second reading of the budget for the coming year. And as you know, next year will be greatly affected by the increase in electricity prices. In addition to the increase in tariffs, Elering's network charges are expected to increase by 13%, and to the end user this means roughly a fifth increase in electricity prices. The government has the levers to ease this price increase, whether or not by reducing excise duties, but you do not use it. You are using three times less effective levers, which is the reduction of renewable energy charges, which is precisely what they are reducing. At the same time, higher VAT is collected in the budget and dividends are taken from Eesti Energia. Why are you opposed to reducing electricity excise duty to the European Union's minimum rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U4	I've answered that question several times from this speaker board. I remember when we introduced the electricity excise resulting from European Union regulations, we did not create a new tax for nothing, but instead replaced the air pollution charge, which was still at the price of electricity, with an electricity excise duty. The introduction of electric excise was mandatory anyway, but we think that this was also the right step. If we had continued to tax air pollution, we would only have taxed our producers. Knowing that these environmental standards, the social standards that we are following in the European Union, are not being complied with beyond the border, we would have been exposed to pollution anyway and our electricity would have been less competitive. Non-taxation is no alternative, as damage to the environment must be compensated, even in part. We know that the environmental charges and excise duty currently in force are far from compensating for all the damage caused to the environment. And, on the other hand, we need to pay the budget, we have to pay out the salaries of rescue officers, police officers, teachers, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U6	Prime Minister! A year ago, you received a mandate using, among other things, the slogan 'The euro does not raise the price'. Last year and this year Estonia has been the country with the fastest price increase in the euro zone. And next year all other goods will also increase due to the increase in electricity prices. Until now, nearly 100,000 Estonian children have received free school meals, but the support for school food has fallen behind the rise in food prices. Why are you opposed to increasing school food support at least by inflation? This would allow Estonian schoolchildren to have a healthier, warm school lunch.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U7	You are probably as well aware as I of how much the euro has affected the price increase and how much the increase in prices in Estonia has been affected by the increase in the price of energy and food on the world market. And this knowledge tells us all that the price of the euro has not increased. Similarly, the price of electricity rising from the new year has nothing to do with the euro and, in fact, very little to do with the opening up of the electricity market. The increase in electricity prices is primarily due to the obligation to purchase carbon dioxide emission quotas needed to produce electricity on the market. That's what increases the price. It is, of course, possible to increase the funding for school lunch, but money is always a question in such cases. Where does the money come from? On whose account? We should raise taxes, someone should cut their salary. I hope that the budget debate will be meaningful today, not just declarative. Perhaps you will also find some real sources to meet this very important objective of increasing school meals for students.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U9	Prime Minister! I have two pillows with me here, these are for your representatives here in the Riigikogu. The policy you are pursuing when you say that there must be no other opinion that a budget such as the one coming from the government must go through the Riigikogu without changing, culminating in the fact that for the arrogance of the government, the representatives of the coalition must pay the presidents of the political groups Jaanus Tamkivi and Kaia Iva in the Riigikogu and the members of their team without sleeping at nights. In the course of this development, which is currently taking place in Estonia, have you come to mind the idea that the attitude could be changed so that you could listen to a different opinion rather than think that you are irreplaceable and infallible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U10	I never thought we were indispensable or infallible! I'm sure you've heard my testimony many times that we've done something wrong. I wouldn't agree to tagging like that. It is likely that a wide range of opinions, not belonging to government members, have also been reflected in the draft state budget law. I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will take a very thorough view of the procedure of this budget, essentially. I hope that they will give up populist demonstrations and do substantial work. This would certainly be more useful to the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U11	And now two questions registered on the spot. I'm sorry, what happened? [[Kadri Simson will hand over two pillows to Andrus Ansip.]] Dear colleague Kadri Simson, we have Question Time now, not a demonstration. But now the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U12	Mr. Prime Minister! I would like to remind you that it was a member of your party and a fighting partner, Jürgen Ligi, who announced that your company was irreplaceable. It also went through the media under big headlines. It was interesting to hear today that for the first time you admitted that the electric excise was an important attribute for budget implementation. You never said that before. Here's my question. Our Chancellor of Justice has stood up for pensioners. According to current estimates, if the price of electricity increases strongly in the new year under the conditions of the free market, some pensioners already account for up to 10% of their pension. Indrek Teder has said it's too much. Are there any measures planned specifically for pensioners to mitigate the severe consequences of electricity prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U13	It surprises me that you, a very senior member of the Riigikogu, are now discovering that excise revenue is implementing the budget. Where should these budget revenues come from, if not from taxes? The truth is, it's only the taxpayer's pocket that brings the entire state budget together. As much as the taxpayer's hard-working hands have earned money into the Treasury, so much of the Riigikogu and the state as a whole can reallocate this money. No miracles will be done by the government; the government can only reallocate the money that has been paid to the taxpayer's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U14	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U15	Mr Prime Minister! It is clear that what we are facing here today at the debate on the state budget is such an obstruction on the part of the Centre Party, driven by an increase in electricity prices and other domestic costs. This is a major issue, although there are also many other reasons. But I'll ask you again. In the case of electricity prices, it is still very much for the state to influence the price of about 70% if we are talking about network charges, if we are talking about the renewable energy charge and, of course, the excise duty, which is five times higher than the minimum requirement of the European Union, as well as VAT at 20%. Many countries have gone down the path of differentiation in terms of VAT. Plus, you take out dividends all the time. It's like an extra tax, it's like an electric tax. But electricity can't be a luxury commodity! And unfortunately, we see that all prices are rising as a result. Please tell me why you don't want to do anything to protect your people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U16	The argument that we don't want to do anything about it isn't competent. It is probably well known that in Estonia, after Bulgaria, the European Union countries have the cheapest price of electricity. To say that all of this is happening in the same way without the government doing anything about it is clearly unjust. In order for electricity prices to remain acceptable in the future, the government has planned a number of investments that, indeed, you have criticised very strongly. We intend to ensure that sufficient production capacity is created in Estonia so that we have electricity at all times and that it is also at affordable prices. However, I will answer your last question: the government is not planning any special measure to help pensioners, but all those who need help from the state will, of course, also help the state, particularly with income support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U19	Prime Minister! My question concerns the propaganda films made for taxpayers' money through MISA, the top politicians of your party. A number of interested parties have made a number of comments on this case, which can be summarised in this way. Firstly, MISA did not know that Inforing was going to film reform parties for taxpayers' money; secondly, Inforing did not know that he was filming reform parties, but he was just filming nice people, and thirdly, reform parties didn't even know who was filming them for what and what money. That is my question: how do you assess a situation in which no one wants to take responsibility for the misuse of taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U20	First of all, I'm not convinced at all that money has been misused. The fact that a film about Jüri Jaanson, a member of the Riigikogu, has been made does not necessarily mean that money has been misused. I think Jüri Jaanson is a person that tens of thousands of people want to follow without this film already. I believe that thanks to this film there will be people whose native language is not Estonian and who want to be as good and strong as Jüri Jaanson. Let us not conclude that these films are some kind of propaganda film, and it is certainly not worth concluding that these films are party propaganda. I congratulate Jüri Jaanson for taking his attitude toward sharing life with a great many people. In my case, yes, even if I had been offered, I probably wouldn't have agreed to be in the movie. I have so far not agreed to participate in any film, and it is totally counterproductive for me to spend my time in the film. I congratulate those who have found this time in their very tense time-buffet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U21	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U22	I'm sure the Russian-speaking people of Estonia want to follow suit when they see films like "Kristiina Ojuland in the countryside, underground and sea" and "The Minister of the Environment of Nature and Nature of Beauty," but you didn't really answer my question about responsibility. As is known, the project related application did not indicate from which these films would be made. In any case, the impartiality of the project evaluation committee may be questioned given that it also included two members of the Reform Party, but probably the agreement to advertise the taxpayer's money to the Reform Party has been born somewhere later. Can you tell me who the Reform Party person was, who made an agreement with Inforing to film the right reform party people? And if you cannot name this person, I will repeat my first question: who do you think should be responsible for the misuse of taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U23	I have so much information in the press that, according to the representatives of the Inforing, the person with whom they would have agreed that movies are made, among other things, from the Reform Party does not exist. No such agreements have been concluded. And I will say once again that there are a lot of good people among the members of the Reform Party, much more than eight of whom are worth filming about. Such people are likely to be found in other political parties, as well as in more than eight. I think that simply being part of a party should not be an obstacle to anyone's participation in movies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U24	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U25	I conclude from this that, as President and Head of Government of the Reform Party, you will confirm that this use of money was entirely correct and that no one has to be responsible for it. My last question concerns the staff policy of MISA. As we know, the leading positions of MISA are almost exclusively reform parties: the chairman of the management board is a reform party; former member of the Riigikogu, Tatjana Muravjova, Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Laine Randjärv, Vice-President of the Riigikogu, MISA's administrative director is former member of the Reform Party Riigikogu Ene Kaups, and the Fund for the Integration of Third Countries, which made a significant contribution to the financing of this project, is led by Kristiina Esop, a member of the Reform Party. My question: do you think that the fact that the leading positions of MISA are only reformist parties is more likely to inhibit or promote impartial and transparent governance in a democratic rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U26	As you are well aware, no one must be blamed for his party membership and no one must be prevented from taking up office because he belongs to a political party of any kind. A part of the persons mentioned by you has been recruited before a member of the Reform Party became the leader of MISA. And you did not mention that some of the members of the Social Democratic Party are MISA employees. Your approach is, in my opinion, selective and tagging. Now, the question of taking responsibility is not the kind of question that I can answer right now, because I have never seen any of those films made for MISA or for funding. I am not the person who can evaluate the artistic level of these films either, and therefore I do not take the right to say that the money has been used in a targeted way or that the money has been used in an unintended way. Yes, my sense of justice would also have required that the party members being filmed were not as one-sided as it turned out, but I have not been asked for an opinion in advance. The other leaders of the Reform Party have not been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U27	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U28	Good Prime Minister! I haven't seen these movies either, and I think we'll be able to evaluate actorism sometime later. It is clear from your answers that you do not see any political dimension here and are trying to convince us that there is no point in us dealing with it. However, I am asking specifically: if more than half of these films are, in principle, clearly representative of the parties involved and the decision-makers are in the majority of the parties involved in one party, do you not see in this activity the slightest sign that all these decisions have been inclined towards the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U29	In reply to the previous question, I said that I thought it would have been fair if the people of other parties had been more represented there. But by claiming that more than half of the filmed people were reformists, I dare to question the information in the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U30	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U31	Mr. Prime Minister! A member of the Social Democratic Party is indeed a human resource assistant in the MISA apparatus, but he is not involved in decision-making. But that's it. I am interested in why it is good that in most state-owned companies and foundations formed by the state, the members of the council are good party members of the political parties of the government coalition and not good specialists. Would you mind explaining what's good about it? As a result, such interesting films are being produced, which are currently being discussed, but aircraft may also start to crash, as Estonian Air pilots recently pointed out. What is good about the fact that not specialists, but party members run these institutions as members of the council?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U32	Mr. Jaak Allik, I don't think you're a bad specialist just because you belong to one party. I don't think one of you is interrupting the other. Usually people who are good professionals want to be active in society as well. Very many good specialists also realize themselves in politics through political parties. Let us not oppose the people of the party! When I understood your question correctly, you also tried in some way to define the Estonian Air Council according to political affiliation. There have been very strong specialists on this board since the beginning of time, who have also hired very strong specialists on the board. Had there been more people from party backgrounds, these specialists would not have led Estonian Air into such a deep crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U33	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U34	Next is Mr Tuus-Laul's question to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U35	Mr. Minister of the Interior! The police-related scandals have become our daily routine, and now the law has been broken. Well, it seems to me that it's kind of childish, that you're still holding Chief of Police Raivo Küti until spring, on the pretext that he still has work to do. You still don't seem to understand the gravity of this offense. 180 people were subjected to illegal fines, ordered to continue working on a non-controlled device, forged protocol data, these are still very serious offences. And then they covered it all up. It's like a multi-level scam. I ask: do you really not understand the extent of the fraud and why you are extending the Director-General's office on the pretext that there is more to be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U36	Raivo Küüt submitted his resignation this Monday and has explained this. These cases, which took place last year in the Eastern Prefecture, were identified by the police at the beginning of this year. As regards both the Eastern Prefecture and, more generally, the police administration, the question is why nothing was done about these offences. Why no contact was made, no rehabilitation decisions were made, and no action was taken against offenders, even though orders were made. These questions must certainly be answered, and these are also the reasons why Raivo Küüt is leaving. This is not a spring, it is 1 March. The amendments resulting from the Statute of the Police and Border Guard Board, which entered into force only on 1 November, are currently being finalised. I think that the work at the graduation stage should be completed by the individual who launched it, and it is now essentially three months. I have already said that we are launching a public competition to find the director of the Police and Border Guard Board, which will also take its time. On 1 March, Raivo Küüt will be able to hand over the Police and Border Guard Board directly to the new Director General once these works have been completed. That is the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U37	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U38	You said these things were discovered and identified by the police themselves. All the more reason I should have done something about it. I will repeat my question once again. You said Raivo Kid needed to finish a certain job. But Raivo Küüt has lost confidence! Do you understand?! He's been hiding these fakes, all this big scandal, and he's still saying that we don't know exactly how it was, and so on. He shouldn't go on. I'd understand if you said we didn't have anyone to replace right now, but we're thinking about it and we're trying to do it, but the guy who's lost confidence has committed acts of law and has been covering up forgeries, just keeps going... I'm asking you, how do you, as minister, understand that? Perhaps you'd like to take your responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U39	Raivo Küüt has not concealed these offences. At the beginning of the year, he made clear arrangements for these offences to have consequences. However, these orders were not implemented as stated in the summary of the disciplinary procedure. The work that Raivo Kid needs to finish is very specific. He himself agreed to complete his duties. It is also reasonable to complete the activities that have been initiated and hence the deadline for him to resign. The term of office of Raivo Küts would otherwise have passed in early 2015 and now I have applied to the government for the resignation of Raivo Küts on 1 March 2013. The action which he has left to complete concerns, in particular, the organisation of the pay system. If the budget for next year is approved by the honourable Parliament, the possibility is known to be to move the UT to a single wage model, which means that the same kind of work will be paid for the same salary. I haven't been able to do that so far. Secondly, the Agency regulates management responsibility, in particular in relation to sectoral management in relation to the level of management of the Prefecture. Duplications will be completed and coordination levels will be eliminated at the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U40	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U41	You have now repeated that the work will be completed by a man who has broken the law and who has hidden many things. So you're gonna approve of all this. In my opinion, Raivo Küüt should not continue to work once such things have been identified. But once again, do you realize that the recent scandal is one of the biggest police scandals of recent times and even the biggest of 20 years? And one of the biggest scandals related to you next to the biggest one, which was to plant Russian underworld characters in Estonia using residence permits. Haven't those things gotten too much? People get the feeling that no matter what happens, everything goes on the same way a man who broke the law works for months and we don't really know if he'll ever leave his seat. What do you say to the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U42	Thank you for your question. I have already told you that I have filed a resignation for Raivo Küüd, dated 1 March 2013. As far as the Republic of Estonia is concerned for 20 years, there have certainly been a wide range of crises and scandals here, their rankings can be held by anyone. With regard to the subject you have mentioned, particularly residence permits, I think this case is the only one on which the decision of Parliament's Special Committee has been taken. Parliament has dealt with this as a supervisory body itself and has also carried out an in-depth report on it. In general, the following can be said for the conclusion of the Ida-Viru case. Service supervision is currently underway, with the aim, in addition to a specific case, to look more closely at the entire police information movement, as well as the functioning and supervision of internal controls. As a result of this work, we can hopefully also draw conclusions on governance arrangements, particularly as regards this sector-specific governance, i.e. the relationship between governance in the area of law enforcement and the whole precinct. As we know from the beginning of this year, the status of the prefectures changed. This was amended precisely because it would be possible to use more and more clearly the resources for substantive operational monitoring on the ground, releasing the management of the prefectures from the administrative obligations and responsibilities that have been previously assumed. This ten-month work, too, is certainly reflected in this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U43	Now two issues registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Andres Anvelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U44	Good Minister of the Interior! I come back to the question raised by my colleague concerning the postponement of the resignation of the police leader four months away. At the moment, the Director-General is, as he has submitted his resignation, in a situation where he can no longer be held responsible for what is going on with the police. The application's on the table. Does this mean that you are personally responsible as a politician for everything that happens within this four-month period at the Estonian police organisation In essence, no one is in charge, nor is he an actress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U45	The Police and Border Guard Board shall have a Director-General until 1 March 2013. That is, if the government will grant the resignation of Raivo Küdi. The second option you referred to is that the Police and Border Guard Board would have been run by an Acting Officer at a certain point. These are two alternatives. Raivo Küüt has understood his clear line of work and will continue to perform his duties in the coming months. It is not a long time, it is a very clearly defined time, and it is also clearly in place for the work that it will finish. As I mentioned, the new statute of the Police and Border Guard Board entered into force on 1 November, preceded by a considerable amount of work to organise a number of regulations within the Police and Border Guard Board. In order to complete this work, Raivo Küüt will remain in charge for the time being. The Police and Border Guard Board has a specific head until 1 March, and the necessary procedure for finding a new driver will soon be in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U46	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U47	Minister, thank you very much. I am not asking about Raivo Kid, because the Democratic League of the Riigikogu was able to talk to him this morning about the issues we wanted, and we received answers. What I have is a matter of substance. It is common practice that there should be a local police officer in an area or region with up to 3000 inhabitants who can respond if necessary. Yesterday, however, the news was that on December 1, Lihula and Hanila County, there will no longer be a police officer on the ground, so it will take too long for operational assistance to arrive. This is just one example that the people of Estonia have reason to be concerned about their safety. How do you look at people who can't be sure of their safety right now? How do you restore their peace of mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U48	I think that the 2013 budget, which is yours to deal with, honourable parliamentarians, will provide answers to quite a number of questions. There are certainly answers to these changes, which aim to add up more and more to the Commonwealth. This activity started in 2010. This is certainly not happening overnight; this activity will continue next year. This is particularly the case with the increasing use of resources for the main activity. In my opinion, the 2013 budget is significant in particular because we can contribute to human resources, including police, border guards, citizenship and migration officials. There is also considerable support for the acquisition of a number of technical tools, as well as a much-spoken problem that the availability of vital services is not guaranteed due to the increase in fuel prices on the global market. We are directing significant amounts to mitigate the cost increase caused by the increase in fuel prices. We are trying to ensure that patrols have significantly more opportunities to move across Estonia to help people. All these steps concerning the budget, internal changes, as well as the possibility for the prefectures to monitor the provision of law enforcement and other services, are aimed precisely at deepening their sense of security, including in rural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U49	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U50	Next is Mr Neeme Big's question to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimethus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U51	Minister of the Environment! 1 March 2013 seems to be a remarkable day. There are 64 hunting areas in Estonia whose leases will end on 1 March 2013 and which have not been reorganized in this way, as the Hunting Act requires in 2003. For example, only three out of the 15 hunting areas of Läänemaa have been organized in accordance with the law in force, while 12 have been prepared for hunting ground arrangements, but no further procedure has been found in the Ministry. However, most of these 64 hunting areas are not known for their management plans. The current Hunting Act has provided ten years for the restructuring of hunting areas. Hence my question: why has this process stopped? Why hasn't it been completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U52	A good questioner, as you know, is in the final stages of the completion of the new Hunting Act. And when it comes to the new Hunting Act, this law could successfully compete in the area of world championship inclusion. This law is essentially a section-by-section discussion with different parties. There have been debates, compromises have been sought, and they have also been found. At the moment, the bill has been last coordinated by the Ministry of Justice. As regards the right to use hunting areas or within hunting areas, there is no intention to amend the law in this respect. No changes are planned either for the users of hunting areas or for the borders. The system is quite firmly established and, in my opinion, does not require any fundamental heel turns. It must be said that, in principle, no agreement has been found between landowners or hunters' representatives. So in this respect, the plan is to continue with the system that it has developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U53	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U54	However, there is a question of what will happen to those hunting areas that will not be reorganized before March 2013 in the 64 regions still operating under the 2001 regulation. The situation seems to be that hunting societies currently operating are losing their hunting rights. It will take time to establish a hunting area in accordance with both the current law and the new draft. Will a large number of Estonian yachts simply be uncovered for an indefinite period and hunting societies will not be eligible for hunting, or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U55	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U56	There's no reason to be scared like that. Once again, regions where users exist and where the borders of the region are also in place will continue to work as they have done so far. No one loses the right to hunt, and we have no interest in creating a relatively vague situation that would arise if we said that we were to start creating hunting areas from scratch. There is no need for this and the system will remain the way it has now developed for the borders and users of hunting areas. If hunting areas themselves agree, for example, to change borders, this possibility is entirely available under the new law, but this requires agreement between neighbouring hunting areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U57	However, I would also like to ask in this regard that, according to the law currently in force, the deadline for the reformulation of the right to use hunting areas is ten years and, as we know, the Ministry has prepared hunting plans for the 12 hunting areas of Läänemaa, for example, but some have been standing at this stage for a year and a half, they do not have the signature of a minister. Why have they stopped?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U58	Again: since the drafting of the new Hunting Act has been a very long process, thanks to its very thorough involvement, that has been much longer than any party would have wished, I have not considered it reasonable to proceed with the management plans you have mentioned until all parties have been assured that there will be no very abrupt changes to the new Law. Once again, there is an agreement that no very drastic changes will be made. The new draft Hunting Act is not in itself the ideal solution for landowners or hunters, in the sense that if the draft law had been written only by landowners, it would probably have become quite different, and even if the bill had been written only by hunters, it would have been quite different. The current option is a compromise, and I think it is a very sensible and good compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U59	Now two issues registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Karel Knight. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U60	Good minister! I would like to begin by congratulating you that you have worked hard on the new Hunting Act, although no definitive compromises have been reached. But the wrong decision was made in the Ministry of the Environment already in 2009 with the liquidation of the Hunting Land Management Department, because the Act obliged the Minister of the Environment to engage in the construction of hunting areas until 1 March 2013. Irregularities to this provision can be regarded as in a sense of maliciousness, and no one has taken responsibility for it. I would remind you that the hunting development plan for the years 2008 to 2013 was approved by the Minister of the Environment in August 2008. Can you explain what happened before you became a minister in the ministry? Why was the hunting development plan approved in 2008 when, in 2009, the Minister launched an anti-promotion process that eliminated the Hunting Land Management Department, which is currently in a situation where the Ministry cannot comply with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U61	One minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U62	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, I think I have two minutes to respond. How one department or another has been named in the Ministry has not depended in any way on how seriously the draft Hunting Act has been dealt with in the Ministry of the Environment. And this work has been taken in very essence. The original draft concept is a new version of the draft when discussing the matter with the representatives of both the hunting company and the landowners. If in 2008 or 2009, anyone may have had fears or doubts that the importance of this issue would somehow be reduced, then by now everyone should have seen that this importance has not diminished in any way. The work done is very big. And it has been possible to do this because we have had very good partners, both in the form of hunting societies and representatives of landowners.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U63	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U64	Good minister! I, too, am aware that the Ministry has really done a very big and serious job on the new Hunting Act over the last four years. But it's over the dog, it's not over the tail. Hunters fear that in the shadow of the term of the rental of hunting areas, there will be a rush and this over-achievement will be something that could seriously damage one side or the other. The question is: couldn't we extend the term of the yacht lease and do it over the tail right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U65	I am aware that here in the Riigikogu, too, there is a proposal to amend part of the law currently in force. To be honest, it is precisely because so much effort has been made to get over the dog that I think is reasonable, and now I think I can get over the tail together. I think that if only one part of the current law relating to the organisation of the same hunting grounds were removed and only one small detail resolved, the adoption of the whole law could be re-entangled, and that would already be exceptionally poor. What has now been achieved should, in any case, come before Parliament. I hope that, as early as November, we will be able to discuss the final version of the draft in the government, and then Parliament will have the opportunity to put these debates on the adoption of the law into practice. I really consider it reasonable and necessary for the law to enter into force in full before 1 March next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U66	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U67	The next question is from Mr Vakra to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Two weeks ago, in this hall, you and I discussed the problems and concerns of the Enterprise Estonia. Listening to your answers, there were still a lot of questions hanging in the air. Let us recall the nature of the problem. EAS staff have violated the State aid rule by distributing grants funded by the European Union, and this doubt lies with 58 projects with a volume of EUR 8,5 million. There is a risk that the aid will have to be paid back over the heads of companies that have benefited from unlawful aid. In your answers two weeks ago, you didn't see any mistakes in leadership. Ülari Alamets has now resigned as Chairman of the Board. How do you appreciate today the actions of the EAS management and the board of directors in solving problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U69	I am still of the opinion that the management of the Enterprise Estonia has acted in good faith and based on its best knowledge to ensure that EU funds are used in a targeted way. In the current funding period, the Enterprise Development Foundation has decided to provide funding for almost 7500 projects. Yes, in certain cases, there is a suspicion that the rules in force have been violated, but, to my knowledge, there is no suspicion that funds have been used in any way for criminal purposes, for selfish purposes or for the purpose of embezzlement. There has been an error in the incentive effect of State aid, i.e. aid granted to projects for which the related activities had allegedly already started, i.e. a contract had been concluded for the procurement of some equipment and only then was the request for funding submitted to EAS. As far as I am aware, 58 projects have been re-examined and have found a number of such projects where there are reasonable grounds to claim that the incentive effect condition has not been breached because the pre-contractual agreement concluded has not been binding.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U70	Please, Mr Vakra, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U71	This week's Eesti Päevaleht editorial board also proposed that the EAS Council needs ventilation, which has a high proportion of IRL supporters and has the reputation of the IRL extension. When Res Publica became a government for the first time, it was promised that the councils of state-owned companies should be turned into an apolitical one. Two weeks ago, you answered me about the Members of Parliament that you supported their participation in the Councils. But more broadly, do you think that overpoliticisation of state enterprises is a serious problem as Prime Minister or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U72	If it were over-politicism, it would certainly be a problem, but I do not consider the management of state companies or state companies to be over-politicised in general. The political balance is prevailing and let us acknowledge that the companies belonging to the Estonian state have been largely well-managed. Yes, there are very serious problems with one company, but very few politicians have been part of this company's council. Perhaps, on this basis, we could draw more far-reaching conclusions and say that politicians would need more than specialists in company councils, but I would not be generalising. I find it quite easy to make a more general assessment of EAS activities. They have done mostly very well with their work, with problems for 58+3 projects. As far as I am aware of any project, no one suspects that the Enterprise Estonia should not have given support to these companies at all. The equipment provided has been very necessary for companies, but decisions should have been taken on the basis of European Union regulations, i.e. with a view to complying with the principle of incentive effect of State aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U73	Please, Mr Vakra, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U74	Prime Minister! Recently, due to scandals or other shortcomings, Ülari Alamets, Chairman of the Board of Enterprise Estonia, Tero Taskila, Head of Estonian Air, Tamur Tsäkko, Head of the Road Administration, Marek-Andres Kauts, Head of the Estonian Internet Foundation. These are all leaders of agencies and other organisations falling within the competence and administration of Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts. How do you assess the activities of the Minister of Economic Affairs, Parts? Haven't you, for example, taken up his cover and asked him how long?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U75	If the Minister sees problems and intervenes decisively, then it must only be recognised. The situation would be much worse if the Minister saw the problems, but did not take action. So I congratulate Juhan Parts on his actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U76	I would like to ask the question that has now been started on the ground, Mr Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U77	Good Prime Minister! I, too, generally share your views on these 50+3 projects. In my opinion, the money is earmarked for what is necessary and right. But what will happen if the European Union still recovers this money? Will it be paid by EAS or by companies, or will the government go to the European Court of Justice on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U78	There are currently insufficient grounds to promote such speculation. As I said, a considerable proportion of these 58 projects have, as far as I know, already been resolved and the suspicion of ignoring the incentive principle has fallen away. This is due in particular to the fact that, as far as I am aware, the contract for the acquisition of equipment, which marks the start of operations, has not been binding on the parties. Such a non-binding contract cannot be considered as a start-up which would have hampered EAS support. I believe that other projects are also being dealt with very thoroughly, and obviously that it is indeed necessary to repay the aid received, we do not see very many projects. At the same time, we must be prepared to pay back the subsidies. It is important to know that these grants cannot normally be repaid for entrepreneurs by the Enterprise Estonia. Under European Union rules, grants must be repaid to those who have received money without a proper legal basis. It would, of course, be extremely regrettable to pay back, and I hope that we will find a solution to all the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U79	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, our Question Time is over. Many thanks to colleagues for asking questions and many thanks to members of the government for answering them. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U80	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Do colleagues want to hand over drafts and enquiries? Let's start with my colleague, Heimar Leng.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U81	President-in-Office of the Council. I have an inquiry to the Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, concerning the increase in pensions and the amounts allocated from the state budget for the following year. My inquiry is motivated by the appeal of the retired voters in my constituency, Võru, Valga and Põlva County, who are concerned about their tomorrow. The state budget does not provide for any increase in pensions as expected. We have a question for Mr Pevkur why the budget for next year foresees an increase of 5% in pensions, while the indexation provisions in the law allow for an increase of up to 6.5% in pensions. What is behind this rise now, given that pensions did not increase at all in the year before last? The question is quite serious, because if you believe in the calculations of members of the Pensioners' Association, the real pension in Estonia has fallen in recent years, not increased. There's a lot of bills lined up here, and I'm not going to bother them right now, but about 20% of our pensioners have been poorer in the last two or three or four years. The 2008-2012 period has been examined and the real pension, i.e. the amount of goods and services that can be bought with pension money, has fallen by 20%. The second point, which is also the backbone of this inquiry, is that, as we know, with regard to the transition to the free market we have...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U82	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U83	... prices aren't going down, they're going up. We want to ask how the government, led by the Prime Minister, helps pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U84	Please, two minutes is a very long time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U85	Yes, it does!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U87	Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U88	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to consider that there are two minutes to submit an inquiry and a bill. Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U89	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 13 colleagues, I present an inquiry to the Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet. The subject is Russia's accession to the World Trade Organisation. It seems to us that there has been little talk about this in Estonia, although this is a very important step, and it is also a very important step from the point of view of Estonia. According to the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Russia's decision to join the WTO was approved at the eighth Ministerial Conference in Geneva on 16 December 2011. Russia ratified the Treaty on 22 August opening up its market to a very large part of the world. Russia's accession to the WTO takes place in transition periods. The faction of the Riigikogu of the Estonian Central Party considers that little has been said about the details of the accession and therefore there is no overview of the effects on entrepreneurship between Estonia and Russia. We therefore have questions for the Minister. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and later on the WTO, has been the subject of negotiations with Russia for 19 years. What are the compelling factors that led to the successful conclusion of the negotiations? Secondly, as Russia's accession to the WTO takes place in transition periods, we ask you to present the impact of agreements on the Estonian economy in the coming years in various areas, such as agriculture and information technology. And thirdly, which WTO countries have Russia agreed on special trade conditions? And fourthly, how far is Estonia's negotiations on the ratification of the common border agreement with Russia, which is also important for all of us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U90	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U91	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of ten political parties, I have an inquiry to report to Social Minister Hanno Pevkur on the result of the distribution of the sickness fund's reserve and the sickness fund. In particular, when the medical strike was negotiated, all kinds of promises were made that patients would not increase their healthcare costs and the queues would not increase. A working group on the future of healthcare is currently also working, which also discusses that queues must not be extended or patients' participation increased. At the same time, the Minister of Social Affairs talks every time he has the opportunity to appear in public, that doctors and other health professionals are guilty of increasing both bed and visit fees and increasing queues. Now it is so far from going into unemployment benefits, and health care workers are again being blamed. At the same time, the sickness fund has a reserve. Some time ago, the Minister of Finance explained in this Chamber that the reserve was intended to level the gap between good times and bad times. But it is not used, the reserve is hidden in the state budget and rests there. What's he doing there? We have no idea. But I'd like to know! And I'd like to know where the undistributed profits, or undistributed profits, are generated by the health insurance fund. This can only happen at the expense of unsolicited health services. In total, we have four questions to which we ask the Minister for Social Affairs to give us competent answers in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U92	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, on the violation of the entry procedure for vehicles to the road border crossing point. From 1 August 2011 the Estonian-Russian border crossing procedure is regulated by GoSwift's electronic queue system, which is used at three Estonian road border points: Narva, Koidula and Luhamaa. In this context, a waiting area was established near each road border crossing point, where drivers can expect border crossings under better conditions. As far as the Centre Party is aware, drivers will have to pay both a minimum border reservation fee of EUR 1 and a waiting area fee of EUR 1, depending on the waiting area and the vehicle category, before crossing the border. The truck, for example, has this EUR 14. The reservation shall take effect after the payment has been made. In practice, border crossings are obliged to use the waiting area and pay a fee for it. The Chancellor of Justice has analysed the situation and taken the view that § 8 (4) of the State Border Act has been violated at the Luhamaa and Koidula border crossing points in order to organise the entry of vehicles to road border crossing points. The Chancellor of Justice presented his proposals and recommendations to the Ministry of the Interior on 19 April 2012, but so far the Ministry of the Interior has not eliminated this breach. In this regard, we have four questions. 14 members of the Central Party have signed the inquiry and we expect answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U94	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U95	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry on behalf of eight members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, which concerns the subject of the census. The eleventh Estonian population and housing census ended at midnight on March 31, and a total of 1294236 Estonian residents were counted. Compared to the last census that took place in 2000, the number of permanent residents in Estonia has decreased by 75816. In view of the Government of the Republic's policy, the population decline mentioned above and the ageing population are to be expected. The questions are related to Annex 1, which is annexed to the inquiry and where the receipt of forms can be seen both graphically and in the table. It follows that no form was entered into the system during the period from 2 February to 22 February. This is understandable in the period from 2 February to 16 February, when the e-count had already ended and the poll census had not yet started, but what happened from 16 February to 22 February is a bit mysterious. The number of people counted on March 7 is also included, which, according to this table, is 106,187 people, although the average score for the next 24 days was 8,000 people per day. In this regard, we have some questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U96	Thank you. Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U97	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to give an inquiry on behalf of the 16 Central Party factions, the Socialist Group and the MP in the Group of Democrats of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. It deals with the future of veterinary training at the Estonian University of Life Sciences. Obviously, we are all well aware that the University of Tartu has been recognised throughout Europe by its vet education. A large number of students are from outside Estonia, and the words of praise have been widely shared about this study. However, there is a simple fact that, in order to remain competitive in education today, we must not stand still, but we must run very quickly. A modern technical base is needed to teach medicine, including veterinary medicine. However, there are quite a few problems in this regard. They received attention from Rector Mait Klaassen of the University of Life Sciences in 2011, referring to under-funding of veterinary training. When the state budget for this year was discussed, it turned out that the assistance hoped for, which was discussed last year, was not coming. This puts veterinary education at risk and has also been brought to the attention by students from the University of Life Sciences who have prepared 220 signatures. The main issue of students is the inability of the university to provide them with internationally assessed quality education. As an international commission is also coming to the University of Life Sciences to assess whether or not the university retains the right to issue diplomas on the basis of international accreditation, the issue is very acute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U98	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U99	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I and ten other members of the Centre Party Group are pleased to present an inquiry to Minister of Culture, Rein Lang. This concerns the digitisation of cinemas. In Estonia there are digitalised cinemas in Tallinn, Tartu and Narva and this slows down or severely restricts the appearance of new films in other cinemas. This year's 16. The Black Nights Film Festival or PÖFF, where only 40 out of 270 screened films are 35 mm on tape. Tiina Lokk, director of PÖFF, has announced that next year PÖFF's films will no longer make it to undiluted cinemas. While 73000 people visited PÖFF in 2011, it is due to technical issues that the number of visitors is expected to decrease this year and the next year, 2013. The Ministry of Culture recently completed a programme of cinema support, which renewed the technology in cinemas to show the films on the 35 mm tape. Edith Sepp, film adviser to the Ministry of Culture, mapped county cinemas across Estonia and stated that, in addition to the problem of digitalisation, the cinema network is in a bad situation, sessions are irregular and halls need renovation. In our neighbouring country, Finland, the country and the European Union support the general digitisation of cinemas. In 2011, 210 out of 283 cinemas had been digitised. The whole process will be completed in 2013. Digitalisation has also given impetus to the Finnish film, making it more accessible. 35% of all viewers replied this summer that they were watching domestic films. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister of Culture, and they concern digitisation: when is the Ministry going to implement these plans and how much could it cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U100	Thank you. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U101	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! On behalf of 14 members of the Central Party Group, I will present an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. The question is about raising the pay of teachers. The Ministry of Education and Research has promised that an increase of 11% for teachers in 2013. More specifically, the minimum wage for teachers will rise from 1 January to 715 euros and the Ministry of Education and Research will calculate an average salary of 860 euros per month. At the same time, in order to increase teachers' wage support in the next year's budget, only EUR 7.5 million will be needed instead of EUR 15.7 million; the remaining amount will be found as a result of the reallocation of available resources and optimisation of the school network. For example, the amount of further training will be reduced by up to two thirds and EUR 4 million will be released as a result of a decrease in the number of students estimated by the Ministry of Education and Research. In reality, the 11% wage increase is a beautiful and also a good promise, but more than half of the money needed must be found somewhere else and there is a strong suspicion that it must be found in the pockets of the municipalities. On the basis of § 139 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, four questions are addressed to the signatory Minister of Education and Research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U102	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U103	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to refer the question on behalf of the 12 members of the Central Party Group to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The content of the inquiry is the completion or completion of the Ice Break Development Plan 2006 to 2013. When the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act was processed in the Riigikogu, which replaced the lighthouse and navigation charges taken separately with one, i.e. a water fee, an increase in the fees paid for some groups of ships was foreseen up to six times. The main reason why it is necessary to impose unreasonable charges at a sudden and very short notice period was the need to rapidly increase the capacity to break the ice. In 2003, very important changes to national shipping charges were prepared, which entered into force on 1 January 2004. Instead of the icebreaking fee, a navigation fee was introduced and, like this procedure, the fee was increased for all groups of vessels, in some cases up to 60%. An increase of EEK 50 million was requested, which is EUR 3.2 million in current currency. Main reason: the need to better organise winter navigation. Does that ring a bell? The plans initially seem to have been serious, as the icebreaking development plan for 2006-2013 was drawn up and approved, in which up to three icebreakers were announced. Unlike the above-mentioned draft this year,...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U104	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U105	And in this regard, we have five questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U106	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U107	Honourable ambassadors! On behalf of the Group, I will report an inquiry to Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, on the subject of the long-known Access to Medical Aid. We all know that medical care has become less and less available, especially for the poorer people. The treatment queues have been extended constantly, perhaps by just a few days each year, but there will be quite a lot of it in several years. In its last annual review, the National Audit Office has also identified the same problem of increasing treatment queues and reduced availability of health care services. We know that very many unemployed people have lost health insurance, especially for the long-term unemployed. These people will only be able to receive inevitable help, not first-level assistance. About 7% of the working age population are people who do not have health insurance. While in 2008 we had 37643 uninsured people, this year we already had 72536. So the tendency is still very dangerous. And there are many other problems. Many uninsured people are called family doctors, but they are not paid by the health insurance fund. This is particularly the case in rural areas, and as a result, the development of family doctors has stopped and they are leaving. These are problems that have also received a great deal of attention from the World Health Organisation (WHO). We have a number of questions for the Minister. How does he assess the situation? What's he gonna do? How will the increase in bed and visit fees affect the availability of medical care in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U108	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U109	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, They say whoever reminds me of the old thing has an eye out of his head. But the thing I have in front of me isn't that old. This concerns the scandal on residence permits, on which we have an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal. The content of the inquiry is this. On 15 May 2012, the Public Prosecutor's Office started criminal proceedings on the basis of the materials of the Riigikogu's Investigation Committee to determine the circumstances surrounding the application for temporary residence permits. The Public Prosecutor's Office has started proceedings under the Penal Code, which provides for criminal liability for the provision of false information to the authorities when it is committed to obtaining a public document or other benefit or income. According to the Aliens Act, in order to obtain a residence permit, the applicant must have demonstrated that at least 63900 euros of investment in Estonian business activities are under the control of the applicant and this business must be necessary based on the national interest in the development of the Estonian economy. It turned out that in Tallinn, in the case of companies registered at 1/3-1/14 School, whose shareholders were foreign nationals who had obtained a residence permit for business purposes, most of them have no real economic activity. There was also a suspicion that the financial resources for obtaining one residence permit could have been used repeatedly to obtain other residence permits. There is therefore a suspicion that the investments required by the law have not been made and that false information has therefore been provided when applying for residence permits. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister. First of these: how far has the investigation been made in this criminal case? Second: who conducts the investigation in this criminal case? And there are two other questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U110	Time's up! There's two minutes, and that's a long enough time. Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U111	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 11 members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. The inquiry concerns the target protection zone of the Haanja nature park Tallikõõõ. The faction of the Estonian Centre Party has addressed the Minister of the Environment several times and has been concerned about the target protection zone of Tallikõõõõ, which is planned for Haanja Nature Park. Landowners there find that it is not justified to establish a destination protection zone for their forest land. It is considered that the current conditions of the restricted zone would be sufficient. Local residents claim that the proposed target protection zone would kill out both the local viable village and tourism in the area. This is because there is no way to develop at the foot of Suur Munamägi. People also lack an overview of how far the Tallikõõõi target protection zone is being established. This situation is in no way conducive to the successful development of the South-Estonian region as a tourist destination. And we have these questions. What exactly is the state of the establishment of the target protection zone, and what is the feedback from local residents when environmental officials have communicated with them? How can a tourist area be maintained in the target protection zone? And there are a few more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U112	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try my long enough two minutes here to realise the question presented to Minister of Culture Rein Lang. The inquiry concerns the Integration and Migration Foundation of Our People and sounds as follows. It turns out on the official website of the Estonian Integration and Migration Foundation Our People, shortened by MISA, that the task of this foundation is to promote the integration processes of Estonian society and to coordinate the activities related to immigration and immigration, to publish the relevant information and to produce overviews. MISA's founding right is exercised by the Ministry of Culture. This foundation has received close attention in relation to the inefficient distribution of grants. WHAT was done with the grants was a series of portrait films from the Reform Party. MISA confirms that the author of the project AS Inforing did not mention a word that is intended to be interviewed for the film series "Knowed and Unknown Estonia." According to MISA Communication Manager Meelika Hirmo, people who know the media valued the projects Triin Vihalemm, Pille Petersoo, Hille Hinsberg, Olga Burmakina, and the financier's representative Yevgeni Žurjari-Osipov. The panel included two members of the Reform Party: Olga Burmakina and Evgeni Žurjari-Ossipov. Since 2011, the Chairman of the Management Board of MISA has been a former member of the Riigikogu, Tatjana Muravjova, member of the Reform Party, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Laine Randjärv, member of the Reform Party, and Paul-Eerik Rummo is also a member of the Supervisory Board. The administrative director of the foundation is Ene Kaups, a reform party. Among other questions, we are interested in whether EUR 77000...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U114	Mr. Peter Võsa, you promised to finish in two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U115	... There was enough or little to promote the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U116	I appreciate the accuracy of my female colleagues. Men don't know the time. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U117	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns the protection of domestic consumers. On 1 January next year, the electricity market will be fully open. So far, it has been served to consumers as an inevitability to join the European Union. However, studies show that in a large number of countries domestic consumers have still purchased electricity at regulated prices. The regulated price for household customers was used by 14 Member States as of 1 January 2012, while in Bulgaria, Estonia, the Netherlands, Croatia, Greece, Cyprus, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Hungary this regulated price has been applied to all domestic consumers. Directive 209/72/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council concerns common rules for the internal market in electricity. Article 3 (7) of the Directive explicitly states that Member States shall take measures to ensure the necessary supply of electricity to vulnerable customers in order to address the issues of energy poverty identified, including in the wider context of poverty. This can be done through national energy plans, energy efficiency improvements and benefits offered by the social security system. While electricity markets are open in many countries, domestic consumers are considered vulnerable consumers in these countries, which is why prices are regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U118	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U119	Thank you. We have four questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U120	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U121	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with my 11 colleagues, I have prepared an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, regarding the area of administration of the Eastern Prefecture. We have heard a great deal about the scandal of unchecked instruments in the Eastern Prefecture, which has led to the resignation of Raivo Küüt, Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, and of the Prefect of the Eastern Prefecture Aldis Base. However, there are other concerns in this region that no one wants to address. The Estonian Centre Party Group submitted a draft decision a few months ago and last week it was discussed in this Chamber. The political group proposed to the Government of the Republic to initiate the amendment of the law to alleviate the language requirements of the assistant police officers, but the proposal was not supported. Neither the Government of the Republic nor the Ministry of the Interior see any problems in this regard; rather, it has the impression that the Ministry intends to reduce the posts of auxiliary police officers. The problems related to the Eastern Prefecture have also been discussed several times in the Centre Party Group with Raivo Küti, but the concerns that we have discussed to the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board have still not been resolved. In connection with recent events, former Ministers of the Interior have also spoken about the crisis in the system. Former senior officials...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U122	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U123	And we have four questions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U124	Thank you. Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U125	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Riigikogu support group "Hands away from Jürgen Ligi!" and on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will report an inquiry to Jürgen Ligi, who has shown himself to be a very good and breakthrough finance minister, who is heard in Europe and who is not alone in Estonia, but already in the wider world. We are addressing this authorityful minister with our deep concern. The issue of inquiry is the taxation of financial transactions. The idea has been put forward by the European Commission in autumn 2011. The 27 countries of the European Union are not unanimous on this issue. Clearly, Britain and Sweden are opposed, and it seems that this idea could be one of the reasons why Britain is increasingly talking about the desire to leave the European Union at all if we do not behave properly. Estonia has not been able to express clear views on this issue, but we are afraid that Estonia might rather deviate from the camp where it wants to tax financial transactions. In the autumn of 2012, we have received a series of signals saying that the government has such an evil plan. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has said that the government does not want an additional tax burden on the Estonian population, but wants to be in the process of developing a new tax system for the European Union. But we don't know if we're developing this system...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U126	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U127	We therefore have some questions for Jürgen Ligi, whom we actually love warmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U128	I get the feeling you don't want to tell us any questions? Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U129	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry that we have addressed to the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Pevkur. The issue of questioning is the reform of family allowances. In our inquiry, we write that the purpose of the State Family Benefits Act is to ensure that families with children are partially reimbursed for the costs of caring for, raising and studying their children. It should be stressed here that the task of the state must be to reduce the number of children living in poverty, to support the full development of all children and to increase family confidence. Our colleagues, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Programme of the Reform Party Government Union entitled "A friendly state" have agreed that the principle of more support for those who actually need more help and who have more children must continue to apply to the payment of family allowances. We know that the Group of the Riigikogu IRL and Reform Party has initiated a draft with this content, but unfortunately this draft does not concern all families with children. The economic difficulties faced by families should not be an obstacle to the child's development in the same way as his or her peers. It is therefore essential that all children are guaranteed healthy, warm food in schools and kindergartens. Children in families in financial difficulties must also be able to attend school and receive education. We have four questions about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U130	Thanks, time's up! Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to make an inquiry to Minister of Culture Rein Lang about the future of Tallinn Zoo. The Tallinn Zoo Statute says that Tallinn Zoo is a polyfunctional Tallinn city institution whose main activity is to raise people's cultural and educational levels, research on animals and restoration of dying natural communities to compensate for the negative impact of humankind on nature. Among other things, the zoo conducts thematic schooling to achieve its statutory objectives, organises study circles and supervises interest clubs, cooperates with other research and development institutions in large-scale research and development programmes and provides educational institutions with a professional learning and internship base. Thus, the zoo is located in the administrative territory of the city of Tallinn, but is an institution providing natural education of national importance. Tallinn Zoo performs the tasks assigned to zoos internationally in Estonia and participates in several international projects, including supporting animal exchange programmes with its rich collection. At the same time, the zoo cannot afford the investments it needs, as the low standard of living for people does not allow for an increase in the price of tickets without a reduction in the number of visitors. For a long time, therefore, the zoo has been waiting for the construction of a new nature school and conference centre along with a new entrance building on the side of the road of the Builders. Tallinn Zoo has built a new habitat for many residents in recent years, but so far many animals have to live under poor conditions. The little garden of polar bears and the living conditions are proof of its true existence. The animal welfare organisation Born Free has already pointed out for several years that some animal species are not even guaranteed to live in a zoo that meets the minimum euro requirements. With regard to the above, we have four questions for the Minister and we hope to have adequate answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U132	Thank you. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U133	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of questioning Prime Minister Andrus Ansip on behalf of ten members of the Central Party Group. This concerns the financing of the Office of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. As we all remember, a law amending the Equal Treatment Act was passed in December 2008, extending the powers of the Gender Equality Commissioner with the obligation to monitor the Equal Treatment Act. While the Gender Equality Commissioner only dealt with unequal gender treatment, the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner began to deal with unequal treatment on the basis of gender and ethnicity, race, colour, religion, belief, disability and sexual orientation. The extension of competences allowed an increase in the funding of the Commissioner's office and allowed an additional frame, but unfortunately, these promises have not been fulfilled so far. Moreover, when we asked the Prime Minister about how things were now going to develop in the budgetary procedure last year, we received an answer that the Norwegian sums of money would soon and soon come. However, the Norwegian money has not yet been received by the Commissioner's office, although it has been a year since that promise. And the consequence is that for five years the Estonian state has not been able to employ one of the institutions created under this law. We sent a written question on this to Indrek Teder. The Chancellor of Justice replied that he had been approached by a number of people who were dissatisfied with the fact that their complaints had been processed in the Commissioner's office for a year and more. In this regard, we have six questions for the Prime Minister. We would like to know how and when the government intends to solve this problem and ensure that the people of Estonia are protected from discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U134	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U135	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to mention that today, not only are we gathered here in the Riigikogu, but our conference hall is also used by the leaders of the municipalities of Pärnumaa. In this connection, or at least in some way, I will present an inquiry on behalf of 14 members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. We want to know more about the financing of the business environment infrastructure projects of the Enterprise Estonia. Namely, Pärnumaa has a city like Sindi and Sindis operates AS Sindi Lanka, which employs 54 people. This is a very important employer for Sindi, but it has become such that this company may be forced to stop its production in Sindi because it cannot provide the necessary infrastructure for the company to operate there. Thus, the continuation of Sindi Lanka's activities in Estonia is no longer certain. The company is considering transferring its production to Lithuania. The reason for this is that it is not possible to access the current location with large trucks. During the winter, when a load comes up the steep road, trailer transport becomes difficult and situations have arisen where cargo cars almost sink into the river. It is not possible to solve this problem by merely snow control; the problem is precisely due to the steep slope of the road. The City Government of Sindi has ordered a section of the road to reduce the slope of the project, but the city has no money to pay for the construction of this road itself. The Enterprise Estonia says that the money is out, the sums have already been distributed two years in advance. That is why the question is addressed to Juhan Parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U136	Good colleague, time's up! Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U137	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce to you an inquiry into the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. In recent months, there have been very extensive debates on teachers' salaries for next year, but there are even more questions about this in connection with the abolition of teachers' grades. If you look at a document drawn up by the Ministry of Education and Research on the principles of modernising the educational organisation, the minimum wage for teachers will be at least EUR 700 from 1 January 2013, while media publications will say EUR 715. However, it is clear that on the basis of this document, the current system of accreditation based on teachers' grades in Estonia will be replaced by a single system of invitations. In circulation it has not reached the Riigikogu, however, a package of amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which aims to eliminate the accreditations of teachers. In this regard, we have the following questions. On the basis of what analyses has the Ministry of Education and Research decided to abolish the ranks of teachers in their current form? How does the Ministry of Education intend to recognise those teachers who have long-term careers and who are also committed to sharing better experiences with others? Why has it been decided to abolish these grades while the teachers' representative organisations have offered that more than eight or more grades could exist? And lastly...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U138	Two minutes are up. Thank you. I have now adopted 21 inquiries on behalf of the management board, and if they comply with the Riigikogu's law on home and working procedures, I will immediately forward them to the addressees. I'll give you the following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law on the amendment of the Food Act, initiated on 12 November, commission of the Rural Affairs Committee; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the competition law initiated on 12 November and the related amendment of other laws, the leading committee of the Economic Commission; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a draft law on ratification of amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC), initiated on 12 November, the Committee on Legal Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 72 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 29.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U139	Let's go to today's agenda. Yesterday, we were in the middle of a debate at first reading 291 of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. We will continue to ask questions on behalf of the initiators to the rapporteur, Andres Anvelt. Please, colleague Andres Anvelt, to the speaker's desk! Question from my colleague Lauri Laas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U140	Honourable waitress! It seems that the measure of society in terms of settlement procedures is coming to an end. If the people who are guilty can trade a third of the sentence, it seems to me that the border has been crossed. For example, in the case of police beatings in Viljandi. Do you think a change in the law would in any way help to limit the execution of new crimes, reduce the number of crimes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U141	Good questioner! Quickly for the introduction, I'll introduce what we talked about yesterday and what this bill is about. That is, in part, the answer to that question. Therefore, the limitation of settlement procedures in relation to crimes such as violence against a representative of authority, a police officer or, for example, a prison officer or a security officer or any other person protecting public order, as well as the restriction of settlement procedures in the case of relapsed crimes, in other words, in cases where a person has already been punished for a deliberate crime. But now, if you answer the question of a good colleague, I think that the draft has a very good bearing on this situation in Viljandi. Firstly, as we know thanks to the media and also to the performances of the law enforcement authorities, there were two shortcomings in the draft. Firstly, that violence was committed against police officers and after that agreement was agreed on a settlement procedure. Secondly, some of these perpetrators had already been punished in the past for crimes under the arrangement procedure. Of course, the large number of settlement procedures saves the costs of the state budget in the same way, but with each agreement procedure, Estonia takes a small step beyond the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U142	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U143	Dear colleague, When this issue was discussed in the Commission, everyone understood quite the same thing that attacking a police officer is like attacking a state. There was quite a consensus on the agreement procedure, at least before the vote. The Minister said that this is a very appropriate draft and, in fact, the sanctions should be tightened up. Why do you think the vote was still the same as the vote against this bill? Did pragmatism really win? The Minister said that the settlement procedure is faster and certainly cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U144	In the same way, there is indeed a need to do something about this problem in this Commission debate, but yes, the opinion put forward by the government talks about the effectiveness of the settlement procedure. I am not arguing about this, but the question is that the legislator has already defined a number of crimes for which no settlement procedure is possible. These are either very serious crimes against persons or property or crimes against the state as such in different forms. However, I do not consider it justified to state that, if we tighten up sanctions, we will achieve a new qualitative level of criminal law in order to achieve one of the objectives of criminal law, namely the prevention of criminal offences. I think that if we send a message to people who break common ground that there is no need to rely on an agreement procedure in the event of acts of violence against police officers, then perhaps this prevention moment is even greater than just a strict penalty prospect. We know, for example, that sanctions for drug crimes are very harsh, but this has not reduced drug crime in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U145	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U146	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say right away that I support this idea, which will be presented in the draft that you are defending. I think that, in some cases, the arrangement procedure also provides an opportunity to blame a person without sufficient evidence, something like a blackmail. At the same time, I have a question: I have heard for years in this Chamber talk about our judicial system being overloaded. Have you suddenly considered that if, for example, the arrangement procedure is reduced by 50%, what costs will this entail? How do queues grow in court?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U147	As far as the burden on the court is concerned, this is a much broader question. The settlement procedure is only one of the types of simple procedures. In addition, there is an order procedure, an urgent procedure and a short procedure. All criminal proceedings may require analysis from time to time from the perspective of how to simplify and perhaps speed up judicial proceedings. When it comes to the rule of law and justice, we must always find a reasonable balance and wonder whether, with excessive simplification and excessive cheapness, we will not cause the role of justice to devalue. There is a much wider range of issues that should be resolved by the reform of the new judicial law, certainly also with regard to the issues of misdemeanour. Much of the burden on the court is caused by formations which are often not subject to traffic fines, for example, at the level that they are currently dealt with in very lengthy and time-consuming procedures in misdemeanour proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U148	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U149	Honourable waitress! You have prepared this draft very thoroughly, and you, as a former police officer, will certainly be able to talk about how the adoption of this bill would affect the image of the police, which has now been severely damaged by recent events.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U150	The police's reputation is enhanced and reduced by their actions. In my opinion, legislative changes do not change that. To some extent, of course, what happened in Viljandi indicated that the authority of police officers in the eyes of criminals is low, but I hope that these people still make up a very small part of Estonian society. These people, anyway, do not consider the police to be an important organisation at national level and may be influenced by the fact that they cannot rely on a settlement procedure for this type of crime. But yes, the reputation of the police in society, also in the light of the latest problems, can be raised or downgraded by the police organization itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U151	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U152	Good Andres! That's the question. Last night, Järva's radio at 12:00 a.m. told about a story where a policeman told the drunk not to drink again and then got his ass kicked for it. So much for authority! As far as effectiveness is concerned, I believe that the effectiveness of the court runs counter to the fairness of the court and that the fairness of the court runs counter to the effectiveness of the court. The most effective court tribunal in the field of war is: a decision is made and executed within one hour. In this sense, the argument of efficiency is not acceptable to me. I generally take the view that the Court must first of all be fair. That is the question in this regard. Tell me, please, is the beating of a police officer a private matter for him, and he can then, like Jesus Christ, stretch out his arms and say, "I forgive you?"
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U153	Thank you for a good question. I'm sure it isn't. It is also stated in the opinion of the Government of the Republic that a police officer can influence the same process by refusing a settlement procedure as a victim. After all, we're talking about a police officer falling victim to the act of violence in fulfilling the task that all of us have placed on him. After all, he symbolizes our safety, our peaceful living. And if he gets beat up, it's definitely not just him who's the victim. If he is torn apart, his personal form will not only suffer, but the victim will actually be the State and the authority of the legal system, because our commonly agreed benefits and interests will be violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U154	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U155	Good waitress! I have had the opportunity to move around Estonia enough, and it is quite common for young people to drink openly in the hall of the cultural centre at a party in the rural culture house. I'm gonna ask the event planner why it's like this, he says I don't have the point of inviting the constable here, he's gonna get his ass kicked. The story of Viljandi came out on public television. As an ex-cop, you could tell me if you came up with this bill for the reason that you found out about the story because of the media. Was that the last straw, or was it the first incentive for you to come up with this bill? Are we too late, or are we doing all this a little too soon? Perhaps we should beat longer, and then we will come to an agreement that the state must establish itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U156	I think it's better late than never. Surely one of the drivers was the same episode that the national television showed us. Although, thanks to communication with my former colleagues, I knew before I entered this esteemed hall that there was a problem. Too easy to deal with police attackers has led many policemen to try not to get into conflict. Which is to be welcomed in the same way, but if a citizen is under attack, then surely a police officer must intervene and he must have a guarantee that the perpetrator will be punished after a fair sentence. And here's one more thing. The opinion of the Government of the Republic states that police officers are highly law-aware and could use more of the opportunity not to accept a settlement procedure as a victim. Then it must be taken into account that they are, in fact, more law-aware of the fact that they have completed training, but on the other hand, they are much easier to put pressure on, both by their chain of command and by the prosecutor's office, who can persuade them to make some kind of decision that is easier from the point of view of justice. In fact, they've often just been put in front of a fact. As we read in the same measuring scandal: the policeman went to measure with an unchecked speedometer and recorded false data only because he feared for his career. Such subjective factors must also be taken into account here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U157	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U158	Good waitress! You have just stated that as a legitimate subject, a police officer could act more confidently. It is true that the settlement procedure will be carried out if the victim, in this case the policeman, agrees. Therefore, this incident in Viljandi raises questions. I still don't understand why the police agreed. However, the second and perhaps even more important side of the question is that, due to the wide spread of settlement procedures, there is no case law in which legal incidents, concepts of legal terminology, their application, between the lawyer and the accused party, remain uncontested at the hearing and are not assessed by the court. The case law is actually being shaped by the prosecutor's office and it is not right. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U159	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U160	Yes, I fully agree with that idea. The settlement procedure really devalues the case law and, as a result, many cases remain, let's say, in that simple zone. And, as far as justice is concerned, it is totally unacceptable for a policeman or any act of violence on whom one of these villains takes responsibility and, in the course of a settlement procedure, does not reach one of the basic objectives of criminal proceedings, to find out the truth. It does not appear in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but I am very much in favour of the view that there must be a possibility of applying a settlement procedure, but it must not become one of the basic methods of justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U161	Good colleague! It is clear that the agreement procedure gives a completely wrong signal to society and does not meet the expectations of the people. Perhaps what we discussed in the committee will come out in this Chamber: why are the police still afraid to defend themselves? Why is he afraid to use a weapon even in extreme cases? Why doesn't he dare fight back?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U162	There are a lot of reasons here, and this topic would require some kind of seminar or conference. Everything starts with our legislation, but the human side and the training side are very important in each of these cases. Much depends on a person's skills and knowledge of what opportunities he has, when he can use power. In a crisis situation, a policeman needs to sense whether this limit is now exceeded and whether he can take the next step in the use of force. As former director of the police college, I can say that in the two years leading up to the basic training course for a police officer, this tactic was taught, but very little, in fact. And one thing is the knowledge of a freshly schooled policeman, another life itself, has shown that knowledge disappears in a few or three years, and the risk of being a victim of this situation is greater for older policemen than for younger ones. It's a whole set of questions. The use of a weapon by the police, for example, should perhaps be more clearly negotiated in society and better written by the legislator in the law. I know from my own practice 20 years ago when I was forced to use a gun, it's not that simple. Although there may be a message in society that you need to shoot now, it's actually that when you've used a gun, every person's soul will have years to go. So this isn't a purely human opportunity. And another thing. In many countries of the world, it is the norm that if a policeman is in a situation where he has to defend himself in court, if he wants professional protection, he has to pay out of his own pocket in most cases. That's what the police have told me. A lawyer who advises him at a police house may not be the equivalent of an opponent to professional lawyers who represent the other side. The policeman is often left in the grey zone, both on the training side and on the legal side.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U163	Please, Mr Gräzin, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U164	In general, we may be of the opinion that it is difficult for our police to work. We're in a defensive position to the police. We have three very close police commissars, whom we know, to whom we always live, these are police commissars Lestrade, Hastings and Japp. Tell me, please, is their fellow commissar as well protected in Estonia as those of our friends? For example, I can't imagine how the police commissar Hastings could be looked at with a crooked face without ever following it. Or can you imagine someone spitting at Lestrade? I mean, is our general police culture that the policeman is feeling well?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U165	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U166	I think most policemen feel good and confident when they have reached a ten to 15-year experience and have been able to come out of difficult situations. In the case of literary heroes, I have invented them myself, and most people do not want to show them as weak, even more as superheroes. I have a slightly different opinion about Lestrade. Unfortunately, Lestrade is also like the Estonian police, and because of them, the whole police reputation will surely suffer. In general, however, an Estonian police officer could feel just from the point of view of law enforcement, whether we are talking about law enforcement or about the protection of such a crisis situation, both psychological and material, much more clearly than he is currently feeling.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U167	Good waitress! I'd like to come back to the issue of weapons. In my own practice, there has been an incident where I was driving a military car driving by a school bus with American National Guards. I didn't know I had to stop because there were four lanes on the street. The local men went white on it and exclaimed: "What are you doing?? The sheriff's opening fire without warning! " We're talking about using a weapon by the police as some sort of miracle. There are hundreds of pages of reports that have to be written after using the weapon. My question to you as an ex-cop is very simple: isn't our police mentally prepared to be given wider powers to impose themselves and to simplify the rules under which they have the right to use a weapon to represent the state when it is absolutely necessary? Can't he decide for himself? If he gets hit on the head with a fence tag, I think he can shoot.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U168	If they hit you in the head with a fence tag, will he shoot again? But I dare argue with you a little bit. This romantic approach to the American police is relatively distant. We've seen it in movies or heard it from someone, but I dare say that in my time, when I was studying at the FBI Academy in America and basically living with 400 people, I was the only one who had ever used a gun. So these things are a little different. However, the situation in Estonia certainly needs to be improved from this perspective, so that training police officers, when and how to use a weapon, does not end in a police school. It is also very important how the policeman expresses himself at the first hearing. I'll give you a good example. If you write your first interrogation protocol that maybe my life and health were in danger and maybe he had a gun, that's it. We have very little to raise awareness of, so that the policeman can be very sure of the circumstances in which he can use the weapon. It is also important that the policeman has the actual legal cover of his organization, that he is given advice on how he should legally express himself in a particular situation. In America, they taught you if you let it go, shoot it in the head, 'cause if you let it go, they'll send you to jail later. I would not want us to use the same method in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U169	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U170	Honourable waitress! I am very sad that my beautiful hometown, Viljandi, has received such unserving negative attention. I dare say that Viljandi is still a beautiful, safe, green and friendly small town, where policemen are not generally beaten and guests can feel calm. But the bill you're defending right now is very legitimate. But what I want to ask is, do you think there's a difference between a bar fight where two customers are fighting, or a fight where a cop has come up with one party once?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U171	I'm sure there's a big difference! That is the point, that in one case the victim is a specific natural person, in the other case a police officer is also a natural person, but also a public order defender and also a state authority. The two situations are therefore different and should be treated differently by the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U172	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U173	Honourable waitress! Listening to these questions, I'm getting more and more concerned. I have realized that in recent years many women have been eager to attend police schools in order to become police officers. How is this bill designed to protect female police officers more from criminals, or how are they even supposed to act? Do women have different rules? Can you talk about it for a second?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U174	There is no other difference between recruiting male and female applicants for police school, except that physical trials are slightly different. This is, in fact, a somewhat controversial solution, because they have to play the same role on the street. Physical attempts have been made to change in one direction and the other. But this bill doesn't make any difference in that sense. Protector of public order, I stress once again, is not only a police officer within the meaning of this bill, it may also be a prison officer and also a security guard. If a security guard interferes with public order violations, I see no reason why he should be treated differently than a police officer. He too protects our common security. The legislator has written and made clear all these matters to the Penal Code. An important factor is that a person protects public order in certain circumstances. If a cop in his private life, no matter what, is a man or a woman fighting on the street, then he's just like any other citizen. If he's doing this for any other reason, the law has to protect him a little bit on a different level. I think it'll keep a few hotheads away from a cop if he knows that a settlement procedure is not possible in the event of such violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U175	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U176	Andres, tell me, how can a policeman who represents the state and has run away from a bunch of drunks on behalf of the state go on behalf of the state to make an agreement with the drunks who have taken over the duty of one of the most important states to guarantee the legal order? The policeman was afraid of them when he ran, and he was afraid of making a deal. What agreement can be made in this light at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U177	A good colleague, you actually answered that question. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we talked about this, and also a good colleague, Gräzin, raised this issue. Yes, in the case of a police officer, the victim is not merely a natural person. But if he can't handle a bunch of drunks, and if he's really alone against them, my advice is to run. It's not just the fools who fear death, it's the others. But if we come back to the draft, the settlement procedure is an excessive trading method in criminal proceedings, because it is much more than the billing between two common citizens. This is an assault on a representative of the state, a defender of public order.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U178	Please, Mr Laas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U179	Honourable waitress! Maybe as a former high-ranking cop you're talking about maybe you've already done it today, I just haven't noticed the effect of the prosecutors making a deal with criminals, which is to allow a settlement procedure, on the morale of the police organization.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U180	Morals are inside every human being. But certainly, when we talk about the organization as such, it doesn't give rise to a general positive attitude if the authority knows that the process of assaulting him is essentially the same as the procedure of dealing with anyone. A policeman would feel much more confident in carrying out his duties if he knew that the legislator had introduced not only ordinary sanctions but also procedural differences, i.e. stricter procedures. In this case, it does not matter whether the procedure is therefore going to be longer, because the aim of the attack on the state or the public order defender should not be to reach a solution very quickly and cheaply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U181	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U182	Good waitress! What you were saying to me was that a policeman had to pay for his own judicial protection because the police didn't have enough expertise to support him. Is that normal? Maybe we should do something about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U183	The question is rather that it is up to the police organization to decide how it controls its material resources and whether it will in some cases take over the protection of a policeman. I argued that a lawyer offered by the authorities in often complex processes is not at the same level as a highly educated and professional lawyer on the other side, who has much more experience in dealing with matters. In such a case, the policeman will simply have to settle with the help of a lawyer in the department, and if he wants to do more to protect himself, he will have to pay for it out of his pocket. But yes, it is actually a matter within the police organisation of how they view the protection of their employees, whether they are willing to bear any costs, just when these costs need to be borne. As we know, the costs will have to be paid later by a convicted person. This first moment, when these costs have to be borne, can be very burdensome for a policeman, making it easier for him to accept a settlement procedure as a victim, i.e. to give up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U184	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U185	Good waitress! Do you agree with the conclusion that what has happened in Viljandi and in Viru County has severely damaged the reputation of the police? And given that the policeman's salary is not too high, how do you find motivated people who are willing to work for the police in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U186	The cases you mentioned are of different backgrounds. In Ida-Virumaa, the police smeared their uniforms themselves. In the second case, Viljandi, he might have acted differently, but we are not the right people to appreciate it now. I myself think that with the opportunities these policemen had to respond locally, I am not talking about the entire police organization, they did their best. But I see a serious risk. I've been in contact with people from several police professional organizations, and they're very concerned that people's motivation and shoulders tend to disappear. It's a small salary, but if you've been working with the police for years, maybe the pay isn't so important to you. Maybe it's more important for your family. But in the case of Ida-Viru, where we actually see it, I'm afraid we'll see it, that only those measuring policemen will be directly punished, and that in the case of superiors there will be a simpler way of resisting, it will definitely demotivate the people who should stand up for our security every day. I think we have reached this red line, where we have to decide, relatively quickly, what kind of organization we are going to go on with, what we want from each member of the police organisation and what we can offer him in return.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U187	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U188	Good waitress! There is certainly still a lot of debate on this subject, but I would like to come back to another important issue. You were talking about law enforcement. Where do you think this balance is, as a waitress? On the one hand, as an individual against the state, we want a situation where everyone has the highest possible level playing field. For example, if you go to court against kapo, in order to be an equal opponent, you have to hire the most expensive lawyer, because the hood protects one of the best. It is the same with the police: we are saying that if a policeman wants equal opportunities in court, he should have a better lawyer. But how can we achieve a state budget balance between individual and state relations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U189	When we are talking specifically about protecting police officers, in this case, it is not like going against an organisation. The same police officer should justify his use of force in a manner similar to that of a common citizen. Hardly any policeman who is in such a situation will be hired a leading lawyer in Estonia, which is almost out of the question. As far as the relationship is concerned, an individual versus a state, it certainly deserves criticism when, in public organisations that have hired their own lawyers, who are not normally low-paid, because they are working with the management, thousands and thousands of more lawyers are hired alongside them. In that case, the relationship between the citizen and the state is a little out of balance. If you take it more widely, the same citizen hires an expensive lawyer to the other side through the taxes he pays. It's kind of a stupid situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U190	Please, Mr Mailis Reps, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U191	Indeed, from the point of view of legal certainty, there is a situation where the authorities, whether police or any other power structure, have basically all the possibilities. You make a mistake or stupidity wherever you go, and if the court evaluates it later, you will be able to protect yourself from almost unlimited amounts of taxpayers' money. What is your proposal: should the state budget allocate money for this to ensure that the police are equally protected? Should there be greater opportunities in police structures for law enforcement, for hiring better lawyers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U192	I do not think it would be necessary to start creating an additional line in the state budget. In fact, the risk that a policeman cannot defend himself could be reduced by properly trained policemen to deal with a real crisis situation. I mean the cases of à la Viljandi or what happened in South Estonia, where a policeman was killed. If continuing training is constantly carried out on the basis of the scenarios developed, police officers will know how to act after they have been forced to use force. But if this is a more difficult situation, then the organisation should definitely support the police officer in law enforcement. However, I do not think that this should burden our national budget. If we take the police budget, it is not only a matter of size but also of more rational distribution of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U193	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U194	Ladies and gentlemen, For many years, Finland has been our model for economic development. My question has to do with this. How are the things we have been discussing for the second day, laid down by the northern neighbours? Can you give me a heads-up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U195	As I said yesterday when I answered the same question: the legal space is so different that it might not be right to project the Estonian legal space in an unchangeable form of the Finnish police system. In that case, we should go back in history, start developing in the same way. Although the similarities in the development of the post-war Finnish police in the 1950s and the current Estonian police are notable. However, whether or not there is a possibility of a settlement procedure in Finland in the case of assaults on police officers, we did not discuss the draft during the debate, and I do not know how to answer it. I repeat: I did not think it appropriate to give examples of other countries here, because there is a certain number of acts of violence against police officers in Estonia and another number in other countries. In Estonia, as I said, it was nearly 260 a year in 2010. Given the criminogenic level in Finland, this ratio is certainly much lower. There may not be such a problem at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U196	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U197	I'd like to come back to the subject of a lawyer. As far as I understand what you have said, it is often because the ordinary procedure is very expensive to have fun. But ordinary people have the impression, especially from literature, that defending the uniform is an honor. When and who's gonna decide that here we're all for one and one for all, but there you are alone with your problems? Is it the budget or the will of the superiors or some sort of rulebook? What will be the basis for deciding whether the policeman is alone in his concern, or whether he is a uniform, and whether the profession must stand up for him?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U198	There's no generality here. Every case is different. It's all about a lot of factors. This depends on the ability of a particular police officer to explain his/her behaviour, depends on his/her direct boss and, ultimately, may also indirectly depend on the budget. I would like to emphasise once again: since there is no specific set of rules, it is based on current practice. No generalisation is relatively impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U199	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U200	Good waitress! As a police officer, do you have such suspicion or conviction that there is a direct link between the number of people caught in traffic violations and the monthly salary of police officers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U201	Ladies and gentlemen, let us stick to this draft. Please, Mr Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U202	I have never been able to work for the traffic police, not even in the hardest economic times. But the private police have a level wage, as well as the extras due to seniority, and certainly the performance wage is also part of the salary. It is for the direct driver to determine whether his performance wages will also account for the number of traffic offences detected. From time to time, this has been done by the Estonian police and I have no reason to believe that these two things are currently separated from each other. Rather, this last official investigation showed that policemen went to commit a possible crime, or to fake a protocol, in the knowledge that if they don't, their careers could be damaged or something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U203	Good waitress! What are we still doing in this situation? It's like the dignity of a country doesn't agree and trade, the people's sense of dignity doesn't allow it, but the government is still trying to convince you to trade. Trade, dears, on your own principles! What should we do in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U204	Well, we are acting the way we are now in this situation. We will prove our claims correct and try to explain this to our good partners in this Chamber, that there are things that should not be agreed on. And I am stressing more broadly with this same bill that it is not just about policemen. The draft law states that the arrangement procedure should not be used at all for persons who have already been punished for a deliberate crime as an adult. I mean, they can also be punished in the settlement procedure, but they cannot trade over the type and extent of the sentence. It's still the D.A.'s. While they can be traded, for example, on the scope of confiscation and on many other points, the type and level of punishment is no longer the subject of trade for a relicant person. And here it is purely an attitude towards the law and public order of our country: whether we want to protect it, whether we want to send a message that we are standing up for the people who defend the country or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U205	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U206	Honourable waitress! I would like to come back to your answer that we cannot equalise, all countries and societies have their own experience. But I still ask: which model outside Estonia could be a good example for us, which could be used by us? In the sense that somewhere in the country it produced good results and maybe somewhere it didn't produce the expected results. Can you give examples that could serve as examples for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U207	I stress once again that Estonia has too much at the beginning of the last 20 years, perhaps it was also necessary to copy the laws of other countries. Perhaps that is why we are currently facing a dilemma where a large part of the Penal Code is not working and criminal proceedings have gone a little out of the balance, leaning too far towards simpler and smoother settlement procedures. I think that now that we have 20 years of national independence, it is time to come to the conclusion of what our Estonian legal space must be, what our needs are. We have copied everything that concerns, for example, law enforcement work, very much from Germany and certainly also from Finland and Sweden, but it was necessary when we built our house, as they say, on an empty field. Now that the field is fully built, we should also look at how it will continue, how our legal space will meet the current needs of the Estonian state and society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U208	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U209	Good colleague! Looks like you hit a nail on that bill. However, listening to this lively debate and not only to the living but also to the content of the debate, I had the following question. Does it really seem to you that this is such a topical issue, or is such a lively debate due to the fact that we are going to discuss a very important question in the Riigikogu today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U210	Good colleague, I'm not a cop anymore, and maybe I've already lost that professionalism. I can't see into people's souls either. But I am only pleased that colleagues are concerned about a matter as serious as the safety of our police officers on the streets. That they're concerned not only about the safety of the residents, but also about the safety of the police. I am very pleased that I can share my thoughts on this with my colleagues, and I hope that this debate will also reach the ears of my colleagues in the coalition, and they will not take the step we took in the Commission when we rejected this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U211	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. No further questions. I now call on Mr Pomerants, colleague of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to be the rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U212	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue to discuss bill 291. For my part, I would like to assure you that I respect the profession of a police officer with great respect, but I will be very forward in saying that I have not reached the same conclusions as my colleague, Mr Anvelt. The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft amendment at its meeting on 5 November. We did so in such a way that we also invited the Minister for Justice and the Minister for the Interior to the debate on the draft in order to discuss at all the attitude and responses to the attacks against the police. As a result of the debate, we have essentially focused on two nodes, which have also been through this Chamber. One of them concerns the victim. We also had a discussion in the Commission, which is still the victim when a police officer is attacked. Is Estonia a victim or a specific police officer? If it is an Estonian state, is it Raivo Küüt or is it Ken-Marti Vaher or someone else? But there's no need to invent a bicycle here. Since you ladies and gentlemen have plenty of time, I have an executive edition of the Code of Criminal Procedure with over a thousand pages. But it is correct to stick to the draft debate and therefore I will only use a few extracts from it. Firstly, I mention § 37 in the Code of Criminal Procedure, as it can provide a very concrete answer. § 37 (1): the victim is a natural or legal person who has suffered directly from physical, material or moral harm caused by an unlawful act by a criminal offence or by an unsullied person. Second paragraph: the victim of a legal person participates in criminal proceedings through a member of his/her management board or body replacing him/her, who has all the rights and obligations of the victim, including the right to testify on behalf of the legal person. And the third paragraph states here that, unless otherwise provided in this Code, the victim shall be subject to the provisions of the witness in the course of proceedings. If we now come to the question of whether, in this case, in addition to this particular police officer, the state could also be at least morally injured, the comments have said that moral damage is considered to be physical and spiritual suffering and pain, loss of reputation and other such circumstances. It is debatable whether moral damage can also be caused to legal persons, and particularly this is questionable in the case of the State, but also in the case of local authorities and other legal entities governed by public law. Therefore, the definition of the victim should, first and foremost, stick to the traditional approach and not try to be highly innovative. Of course, there are possibilities for this, and if it is a police officer as a special victim, then we can discuss the penalty rates involved. After all, a representative of the state has been invaded. Now another issue that you have asked Mr Anvelt very much about. This concerns the settlement procedure. In general, there is the impression that the settlement procedure is some sort of thing being dealt with by a criminal, or suspect, and the prosecutor in some dark place: in the corner of a bar, they agree and leave without penalty. Ladies and gentlemen, you are mistaken! The settlement procedure is mentioned in § 239 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that indeed, the court may, at the request of the accused and the prosecutor's office, settle the case in the settlement procedure. The court is always involved in the settlement procedure. He or she may return the agreement he or she has been born and demand that it be amended if he or she thinks that any false grounds have been used, he or she may at all not accept the agreement on the basis of legal restrictions. And there's always a chance that the arrangement procedure will grow into a general procedure. As has been rightly pointed out here, the agreement procedure is not an option if not all parties agree. This must be accepted by the accused, accepted by the victim, whoever it is in the particular case, and, of course, accepted by the prosecutor. The law sets out the cases in which the settlement procedure cannot be applied. To give one example, you may find it quite unacceptable that, with the consent of the victim, a settlement procedure between the accused and the state is possible in the case of rape. This act shall be punishable by one to five years imprisonment. And the reasons are very human and understandable. If it were a general procedure, it would mean that the victim would have to go through a long trial in all its uglyness. At the same time, the legislator has found that, when it comes to a minor, when it comes to several persons, when it comes to damage to health, rape is also considered a crime for which the state does not agree. Now, you guys have been talking here about maybe it doesn't matter if it's a regular domestic brawl somewhere in a bar or an assault on a cop or some other authority. I'm sure there's a difference. That is what the Penal Code means. In the case of a common case of fighting and beating, the paragraph that could be applied is § 121, which refers to physical abuse. It provides for a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to three years. But we will come again to Article 274. We really want to talk about Viljandi's case, but I think we need to take this issue very calmly. A few years ago, when the Ministry of Justice published data on crime, it became clear that Pärnu is the capital of Estonian beatings. Now we're talking about Viljandi. But the law certainly cannot be made based on the fact that this or this has happened in one city or another. This may well be the motive for some legislative changes. The same § 274 also covers cases where, for example, pushing may be involved, but we say that it is completely unreasonable to have an agreement procedure in this case and should use a general procedure. Is it? I hope I've been able to explain the arrangement procedure to you a little bit. With regard to our activities as legislator, it is likely that only recently a revision of § 239 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which entered into force on 1 September last year, took place. We have been discussing this issue, in which case the agreement procedure could be ruled out. If we come to the second part of the draft, i.e. if it is a person who has committed a deliberate crime once, then in the case of him, the negotiation procedure would consist only of two subjects. First, the qualifications of the crime. For example, it is rape that did not involve killing, and the person says yes, it was rape. Secondly, the extent and nature of the damage caused by the crime. And then, as far as the type of punishment and the degree of punishment are concerned, whether it should be jailed and, if so, how long, or perhaps if there was a financial penalty, that part would not be. If we look at the integrity of the law, what procedure do we have in the end, it would definitely require changes to the other sections as well. At present, people can be convicted in the settlement procedure. Punishment policy has increased in recent years and the proportion of real prison sentences has increased to 60% in 2012. The average length of imprisonment has been in 2012, when we are talking about § 274, the possible five years 9.4 months. But every case is unique. When we are talking about a financial penalty, the average penalty in 2012 has been EUR 600. The Commission has discussed this draft and recognised the need that it should certainly continue to address the issue of sanction rates. It has also been said repeatedly in this Chamber that a Commission has been convened in the Ministry of Justice to carry out an entire review of the Penal Code, including a priority review of this issue. That should be the solution. The Commission decided to put this draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 13 November. Everyone agreed on that. The Commission also decided to propose to the Chamber that this draft be rejected. It was supported by 5 and 3 members of the Commission, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U213	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. First question please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U214	To understand the Commission's position better, I ask you this. The current law does not allow for a settlement procedure when it comes to senior state officials, prosecutors and judges, etc. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U215	I guess I'm just going to say, out of my mind, that there are higher levels of sanctions here. Those crimes, for which no agreement is possible, have been brought up nicely. I'll see if I can find this place. For example, it is not possible to do so in the event of an attack on the life and health of a high state official, in which case a prison sentence of 6 to 20 years or even life, obviously a terrorist offence, a seizure of power in the armed forces, if it involves serious damage to health, provides for a penalty of 12 years, an invasion of an area of national defence importance, if this has been done with violence. But in most cases, it is an opportunity to agree. Why? Because they are of such seriousness and nature that it makes sense to choose a settlement procedure based on all parties involved, including the victim.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U216	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U217	I actually have a philosophical question, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs: which was before, an egg or a chicken? Perhaps in a different way: was it the will of the legislator before, and then the commentary code came, or was there a commentary code first, on which the legislators started to make a code of penal or criminal proceedings? Which was before? When I listened to your thoughts, I came to the understanding that we, as legislators in the case of legislative changes, have to rely on an executive edition of the Code of Criminal Procedure or Criminal Penalty. When I was studying at the University of Tartu in my day, the same people who did this code said that the interpretation of the law must be based primarily on the will of the legislator and the comment is written according to it. Which one was it before, an egg or a chicken?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U218	We in the Commission have said before, respected professors of law, that executive codes are so-called fictional publications. But I can answer you. First of all, there is a law on which, according to case law, comments can be made. The comments come first and foremost from case law and these examples are also referred to here. You can shake your head, but look at the book.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U219	Thank you very much. The next questioner is Rannar Vassilyev. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U220	Good chairman of the committee! The report made it clear that the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed whether the victim was a police officer or the Estonian state, and if the Estonian state, was it Raivo Küüt or Ken-Marti Vaher? Was there a strong opinion in the committee that the Estonian state is equivalent to Raivo Küi or Ken-Marti Vaher?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U221	I brought these names as examples. There was no long debate on these persons.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U222	Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U223	Good waitress! The guardian of the bill, after doing this work for a very long time, probably knew what he was talking about. He also relied on his experience. You turned a few things around with the help of a fat book. I have a question that has already been asked by the bill defender, but I will also ask the Commission representative. I find it strange, too, how the police can still suffer. He's armed in the line of duty. How would you, as a representative of the Commission, comment on this happening? If you're in trouble, you gotta take the gun out!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U224	Indeed, if it is in the hands of distress and the rules in question provide for it, then a weapon must be handed down. However, this has nothing to do with a specific draft. The fact that, as your legislators, you see the difference between what a bar fight is and what an attack is against state authority is also reflected in the current Penal Code in the form of various sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U225	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U226	Good waitress! My question is: do you think that everything is going to be very well right now, or is there a new, better, more appropriate solution from the super committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U227	If it were all super good, we wouldn't be discussing this bill. Whether the committee is entitled to be called a super committee, I cannot say, but it is certainly very good specialists who represent different institutions of the public prosecutor's office, the Estonian Bar Association, the Supreme Court. Repeatedly, Professor Jaan Sootak, who is certainly a good specialist in his field of study, has been mentioned. The Commission, as we know, does not draw up any laws, although it can carry out an analysis and propose its own starting point, which we can discuss in this large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U228	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U229	Mr President of the Commission. When my colleague, Esther Tuiksoo, praised Andres Anvelt for a thoroughly prepared draft, I came to see where you were sitting. You were very energetically shaking your head, as if not agreeing that it was well prepared. In your report you later confirmed that other sections of the Code should also be amended, not just those that have been changed by the drafters. At the same time, the Commission is not going to finalise this draft, but simply wants to reject it from the procedure. Didn't you want to tell me you could do something different? For its part, the Commission does not propose any solutions, and this problem remains unsolved, as long as the police are again under attack on the end of Estonia and the attackers remain unpunished.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U230	This possibility exists that police officers and other representatives of the state will be attacked. And as so far, these attackers will be punished. The only question is whether the attackers will be punished by a general procedure or by a settlement procedure. By its final decision, the Commission assessed whether the settlement procedure should remain when the application of § 274 of the Penal Code is concerned, and the Commission's decision was that this possibility should remain. We did not go any further in this debate. At the same time, we found it really reasonable to review the levels of sanctions and to discuss whether it would not be reasonable to separate police officers from other authorities and to'make their own paragraph'.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U231	Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U232	Speak up, maybe we didn't understand each other best during the first question. Well, I'll keep asking. For a certain group, the arrangement procedure is not possible with certain reasons. Now, here's what I'm asking you: why can't cops be part of the same group?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U233	Theoretically, it's possible. Of course, and that is the will of the legislator. In its debate, the Commission made a proposal to you, which we will soon be voting on when we decide on the fate of this draft. This proposal was that it would be reasonable to continue with the possibility that the agreement procedure would remain. The guardian of the bill offers the opposite solution. And there is a conflict between two concepts. There is absolutely no correct answer here; there is a different understanding of how things could be arranged. What the Riigikogu thinks about this will soon be known. There is no absolute truth here, that is a political decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U234	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U235	Honourable waitress! I don't understand everything, either, and that's why I want to be more specific. Did I get it right that the current normative act, this code, solves all the issues relating to the precedent you mentioned? Or are there some open spaces, and that is why the Commission is going to discuss this issue again? Does this bill, which has brought this issue up to date, absolutely not fit into today's legal space and that is why you want to throw it out? I don't get it. It doesn't add up to all three points.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U236	Thanks! Maybe another comment. There are also different perceptions of whether or not the arrangement procedure as such reduces reversibility. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice have pointed out that it may also have a disciplining character, once such an agreement has been granted and proposed. A person can be more law-abiding in the future. As regards the supercommittees, the special reviews, etc., this concerns the whole Penal Code from start to finish and also all kinds of special laws. I would like to mention, for example, the Food Act, the Animal Protection Act or whatever part of liability and sanctions has been written in, which is primarily about wrongdoing. However, we do have such general points of thought, and an example is the draft initiated by the Centre Party, which concerns criminal proceedings, which acts could at all be offences, which are not. At present, justice is possible on the basis of the law in force. If the legislator thinks that we are doing it differently, it will base its analysis on this Commission, then it will be somehow different. Today, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to reject a draft 291, maintain the agreement procedure as an option and, in any case, analyse the degree of rigour of sanctions in the case of the application of a specific § 274.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U237	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U238	Good waitress! Before the question, I would like to comment on your view that the code of comments arises from examples of court proceedings. If this were the case, we would not have any normally commented codes at the moment, because a large part of the provisions of the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure have never existed in court. But that's it. I'd like to ask you about the same code you have on your desk, commenting. There § 245 describes the arrangement. Have you read it? The author very much doubts the legislator's willingness to give the type and level of punishment simply to the prosecutor. Have you read it or haven't you noticed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U239	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U240	I haven't been over it with that look. But once again, as we agreed together, the comment can be one- or different. And doubt is only a question of the individual.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U241	Mr President of the Commission. In answering my previous question, you said that with this solution, whether or not a settlement procedure is possible, future attacks on the police cannot be ruled out. We will discuss the budget for the coming year later today. Wasn't it really a problem in this Viljandi case that our police have been through so many cuts that he has a manhood lousy. There was just no place in Viljandi to ask for help immediately. Equipment is also defective in some places. In this context, did your committee also discuss the budget for the coming year? And do you really think that the police do not need any additional resources, as the Central Party Group has proposed an amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U242	This particular case has not been discussed separately by the Commission. However, I do not think there are any members in the Commission who would think that the police, including the staff, would not need additional resources. My personal opinion is that if, for example, there were 20 years of imprisonment, there would always be people who didn't give a shit about it. I believe Viljandi has received too much attention, it could have happened in Paide or Rakvere or anywhere. Apparently, those attackers didn't have a penal code in mind when they went after the police, no matter what was written in that code.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U243	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U244	Honourable waitress! Please explain to me the Commission's position as to why the attack on a high state official, such as a member of the Riigikogu, is such a serious crime that the settlement procedure is out of the question, but the attack on a police officer is no longer such a serious crime and leaves the possibility to trade, either in general proceedings or in settlement procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U245	We didn't discuss that separately. But if we look at the crimes against the person listed in the Penal Code in a complex way, then the question may arise again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U246	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U247	Mr President of the Commission. In a number of responses, interesting lines were that perhaps there could be a separate section of the law for the police. You also did not exclude a police officer from being included in the list of high-ranking civil servants. These seemed to be positive notes, and here I get the idea, no matter what, that these matters could be discussed further in the draft procedure. Why did the Commission make such a hasty decision? The simplest thing is, let's vote it out and let's not consider anything else. Is there not enough work or what's going on? It seemed to me that these options could be positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U248	If anyone wants to talk about the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I think there's plenty and more. However, as a result of this analysis, the Commission came to the conclusion that it would be reasonable to maintain the arrangement procedure. We did not agree on this; the result of the vote shows this: 5 people against the draft and 3 people in favour of reading the draft further.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U249	Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U250	Good colleague! My question may seem spiteful...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U251	You can afford it!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U252	...but I really don't understand why you don't want police officers to be more protected and beat up on the street.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U253	If it were only dependent on the Penal Code and everything else could be excluded, then it should be done. But it's not that easy in life. The policeman must continue to stand up for himself, not just rely on the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U254	Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U255	Good chairman of the committee! I would like to ask, at the end of this debate, in summary terms, whether you think there is something in the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure that will not allow a policeman to be imprisoned for a long time today or tomorrow. There is a concern that if we do not adopt this bill, maybe we should change the law very quickly, otherwise the policeman will not be protected from attack.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U256	The answer is tricky! What's a long time? For someone who has to pay the penalty, this average nine months is certainly a very long time too. Somebody else's sense of justice, but maybe it's a long time after 15 years. But there's a law, it's applied. And there are dozens of cases where § 274 is the basis of the charge each year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U257	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Marko Pomerants. We're opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. I beg you, as a representative of the Peeter Võsa Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U258	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the issue of this bill is a little wider than mere punishment. Yes, of course, it is also possible to be punished under current laws. Let us take again this example of Viljandi and not just the example of Viljandi, but take all the situations where police officers have been assaulted. Yes, the penalty, or any kind of punishment, is in fact revenge for the fact that a criminal or a criminal has dared a representative of the state, i.e. to take over the performance of his or her functions from the state. But what do we have to say to those people who were left unprotected? The state ran, shoved the hat on and ran away. What do we have to tell these people why they were left unprotected, why did the country run away? Very complicated. Or what do we have to say to good underfunded law enforcement officers who risk their lives and health every day? What can we tell them? Yes, the state will avenge you for letting this happen now. We have heard the government's views here, and I would like to explain the other principles a little bit. You see, the trading place and the settlement place are a little away from here: you go down the hill, you walk to the old fishing port where the Tallinn City Government has made a very nice fish market. It's a trading spot. There you go and trade as much as you need! Principles are not the subject of trading. So, what are we in now if we're looking at the latest police cases? Think a little about what the government has done to the country! We cannot talk here today about starving children, we cannot talk about limping health and social care systems, we cannot talk about sinking our ability to save, we cannot talk about destroyed education systems or non-existent regional policy. In the context of this draft debate, we can talk about the police and a little about the state in the police key. You can also understand that measuring speeding with the eyeball or thumb and penalising traffic offenders caught is a criminal offence. It's even worse to hide a crime, especially if it's done in group. The same very big crime is not helping people who rely on the police. The same case of Viljandi: the state ran, for several hours the country was not present, and those who took over the power of the state did what they wanted to do, returned the legal order, as they thought it would be, taking care of the welfare of the gardens, turning the flower beds inside out. If it were a joke, it would be the ultimate joke of absurd comedy, I think. But it's our own country, dear people! Is it the police? No, it's not the police's fault. It's not guilty of those honest, noblemen, and I'd say brave policemen. In fact, it is politicians who do not care about men and women who defend the country and its legal order, who do not wear uniforms, who do not have enough fuel in the car tank, and who ultimately do not pay to buy food or to maintain a family.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U259	Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U260	I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U261	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U262	Officers would do the job. But because of underfunding, there is a situation in which all community-centred crime prevention work has been completed. All that's left is punishment. Half the population is in the criminal record. You see, there are things that are worthwhile and can be agreed upon, and there are things that cannot be agreed upon. You do understand that, don't you?! I think it's understandable, you understand that. As I was referring to, the fish market is a trading place, go and trade there with the Baltic Sea sprat, good and cheap. But if we're gonna trade here with the goods, the principles, the state, we're just gonna trade it all for change. It's as simple as that. I am saying that I cannot support such incomprehensible austerity, such a lack of principle, such an attempt to agree in every last situation where nothing can be agreed. So I was not satisfied with the Commission's decision to reject this draft, and I could not look at it calmly here either. I cannot and cannot accept this situation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U263	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Andres Anvelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U264	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to be brief. First of all, I think that every step taken to protect our legal order, even if it is small like this law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, is an important step. We will not succeed if we do not move and await a white ship in the form of the work of this large or important committee. After all, this committee is generally concerned with amending the Penal Code, and the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure could take its course. As the government has also said in its final opinion: both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior consider that the attack on police officers as public security officers must be taken seriously and therefore the Committee on Codification of the Penal Code seeks to address this issue at a faster pace. We are just talking about the Committee on Codification of the Penal Code. According to a good previous speaker, there are dozens of these cases in Estonia. But there aren't dozens of them, we have hundreds of wires that have committed acts of violence against police officers. A year ago, there were nearly 260 of them. When we are talking about the development of a judicial area, this is what we must shape and not find answers to the executive codes. For a very simple reason: because in these codes, legal scientists are searching for the will of the legislator in the protocols of our committees, in the verbatim reports of our large hall, which they are trying to unwrite. The question of the victim also arose in the Commission. The victim may also be a senior civil servant. He could also say, oh, no, let's agree, but he's taken that opportunity because he represents the country. Similar provisions are made for assaulting a military officer. He also represents the country, and we must not agree to attack him. So it doesn't make any sense why a police officer has been put into the role of a particularly dirty worker who can be agreed to be attacked. We will take the second point of this bill, which talks about the species and the degree of punishment at least for the second sentence of a person who has already committed a crime before. I promise to return to this same codified or executive code. It has been questioned whether the species and the rate given to the prosecutor is justified. That is the same suspicion that our group, as legislator, tried to resolve. Because what matters? What is important is that society's sense of justice is not violated. When you read the government's opinion, the idea remains that the arrangement procedure is good, because it is fast and cheap. But do we really want, as Mr Gräzin said, a rule of law where justice is only fast and cheap? Then it really comes to mind the trial of the Troika, where the fate of a man was decided in a few minutes. It was the cheapest and cost only 3.50 in the old money, so much cost one bullet, plus working hours. That's not the kind of thing we want. What I want to say is that when we analyse the economy, we can talk about various world views of liberalism, social democracy, the middle road and anything. Any voter is interested in justice. The voter wants his sense of justice not to be offended. He doesn't want anyone to read in the paper or hear on the radio that he's been renegotiated to another person once he's beaten another person's life. What kind of opinion does he have on all of us? In conclusion, I would like to congratulate those coalition ambassadors who were actually in the Commission and in the Chamber today, I dare say, in favour of the content of this draft. They also don't understand how you can't support a cop who gets beat up on the street for all of us. But the Commission and the policy, as our Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs said, remained on the table this time. So hold on, gentlemen, policemen!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U265	Thank you. Mr Pomerants will take the floor for a two-minute speech. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U266	Thanks! Just in the name of justice: I am not quoting "Spring" or the executive edition, but I am doing a penal code, which also includes crimes against the state, offences against the Republic of Estonia, such as violent action against the Republic of Estonia, treason, interrogation, non-violent action against the Republic of Estonia committed by an alien, support for war against the Republic of Estonia or occupation. And these are all crimes that can be agreed upon in a settlement procedure. As for the offences against state power, perhaps I did not understand the issues of my fellow Members Nestor and Eagle, but I want to tell you, good members of the Riigikogu, that we like to be together with our people. That's the way it is. The agreement is not possible in the case of the President of the Republic and the President of the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister, the President of the Supreme Court, the Chancellor of Justice, the Auditor General, the Commander of the Defence Forces, the taking of a hostage or causing damage to their health, because it provides for up to life imprisonment. But all others, including honourable members of the Riigikogu, are mere mortals in this sense. So, if you're the victim, there's a possibility of a settlement procedure. If you disagree, there will be a general procedure. But let's hope there's no need.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U267	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Since the proposal of the commission is to reject draft 291, we must vote on this proposal. Let's start prepping it. Mailis Reps, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U268	Yes, Madam Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! So that everyone can reflect calmly on 291 SE as a very important draft, please take a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U269	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U270	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading 291. Please take a stand and vote. 52 votes in favour, 39 against and no abstentions. Draft 291 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U271	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Act 248 on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Let's open the negotiations. I would like to ask the representative of the Central Party Group of the speech chair, Yana Toomi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U272	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U273	Excuse me for a second, performer! Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U274	We have once again come to the end of the process of dealing with an important and very large bill. This time it is a draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and related to the amendment of other laws, which, according to the explanatory memorandum, aims to resolve the problems encountered in determining public pensions, benefits and benefits, as well as technical issues that do not entail any substantive changes. Of course, it is commendable that at last the legislation on pensions, benefits and benefits harmonises the use of the "Social Insurance Institute" instead of the names of the implementing agencies. Since 2004, pension institutions have been structural units of the Social Insurance Board, but until now the legislation uses names such as the Pension Board, the Pension Institution of the place of residence, the Regional Pension Board and the Social Insurance Board. The lack of common terminology has given rise to sufficient confusion among applicants and even situations have arisen where applicants cannot understand which administrative body they need to address. Therefore, this amendment is very welcome and will ensure a common understanding of which authority will resolve these kinds of issues. It is also to be welcomed that in the future, the Witnesses will be able to prove someone's pension status in the Committee on Pensions of the Social Insurance Institution, and the Witnesses will be interviewed in court. This change will make it possible to shorten the decision-making process for the pension applicant to grant a pension and, hopefully, to reduce the workload of the courts. The procedures for settling disputes are also harmonised and provision is made for all disputes to be settled by the Dispute Committee at the Social Insurance Board. The draft also regulates the transition from disability pension to early retirement if the person was already paid an early retirement pension before the disability pension was granted. If the invalidity pension ends before the person reaches the pensionable age, he or she shall continue to receive an early retirement pension without requiring a pension application from the day following that on which his or her incapacity for work ceases. The amendment to the Parental Benefits Act suspends the parental benefit for the parent during the period of deprivation of liberty. By the way, we were told in the Committee on Social Affairs that this initiative brought out the social workers in Harku Prison, which I find a little strange, but that was the case then. This amendment concerns persons who have been convicted by a court and who have been sentenced to actual deprivation of liberty and the parent is in a detention facility with the child. It is known that children can stay in detention facilities with their parents until they are four years old. The parental benefit is now suspended during the period of deprivation of liberty. In addition, the Parental Benefits Act will be amended so that the Social Insurance Board will publish the maximum amount of the benefit for one calendar month of the following calendar year on its website by 1 May of the current year at the latest. However, the methodology for calculating the upper limit is not changed, which means that the amount will continue to be confirmed by the Government of the Republic. The latter, in turn, leads to the conclusion that, despite the decrease in the number of births, there is no expectation of lowering the upper limit on parental benefit and of channelling the available resources into other family benefits. Looking at the family policy of the government coalition, the most pressing problem now is the too big gap between short-term and long-term family benefits. The most difficult period begins at the end of the parental benefit, when the cost of raising a child increases considerably, but the benefits become sharply lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U275	Would you like more time? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U276	The current family benefit system supports the birth of children in particular. The development and upbringing of children should be supported not only by raising the upper limit on parental benefit, but also by creating new kindergarten places, restoring the support for ranches and warm food for all kindergarten and school children. Instead of the services needed to support children's upbringing, something else will be created under the flag of the reform of family allowances. In conclusion, this bill, as well as many other drafts of the Government of the Republic, could be described as an endless series of technical changes, which, unfortunately, does not improve the livelihood and quality of life of Estonian people. The draft does not guarantee an increase of 6.3% in the pension index for the elderly in Estonia, but, as of 1 April 2013, pensions will increase by an average of 5%. The difference is quite remarkable, almost one-and-a-half percent. The 5% pension increase is expected to give pensioners an average of 15 euros per month. This does not seem to be a very large amount in the light of the price increases in recent years. However, in view of the price increase that awaits us in the new year, this EUR 15 supplement will become rather ridiculous. Since January 2010, food and non-alcoholic beverages prices have risen by 20% and housing expenditure has increased by 21%. Next, 2013, in addition to the general increase in prices, Estonia will be hit hard by the increase in electricity prices. The Government of the Republic will only lay hands on it. However, almost two thirds of people's electricity bill is controlled by the state. If we add 13.3% increase in the price of Elering's network service fee to the increase in electricity prices, we will get about 20% increase in people's electricity bill from the new year. In the light of these increases, the 5% increase in pensions seems to be unacceptably low. In conclusion, Bill 248 is certainly necessary and important for solving the problems encountered in determining pensions, benefits and benefits, but in addition to such technical drafts, we expect the coalition to make substantial changes to the lives of Estonian people. We expect changes that will enable the elderly, children, single parents and all workers in Estonia to live without falling into poverty and ensure that the working-age population does not leave for a better life abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U277	Thank you. No further requests have been registered. I'm closing the negotiations. We shall proceed to the final vote on this draft. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, we will do a verification of the presence. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U278	I assume we'll do the presence check, but before the vote, I'll ask for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U279	That's a very interesting suggestion. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 67 delegates registered as present, 34 missing. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U280	Ladies and gentlemen, before the final vote, let us do the presence check again. Double doesn't rumble! There's 84, there's 17 comms missing. Let's get to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 248 amending the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one is against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U281	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let's open the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, Mrs Tuus-Laul would like to speak. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! Before voting, I would like to remind everyone once again that it was originally the aim of transposing a directive from the European Commission that would better protect consumers. Then the bill came up before you, which was prepared as a result of the lobbying of the Estonian Banking Association and the Estonian Association of Liising Associations and which does not protect consumers, as was the original purpose, but rather lenders and banks. On the basis of this draft, banks will be able to cancel loans to families in default even more easily than they are now and can only assume how many people who are stuck will lose their homes or other assets secured by loans as a result. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law points out that, in practice, the clause governing the cancellation of the loan contract has provided an opportunity for different interpretations of the term "contributory payment', which, according to the Banking Association, prevents the termination of concluded contracts if the person has delayed payments or actually defaulted. So far, when a person in distress paid off the main part of the loan and delayed the payment of interest a little, the bank could not cancel the contract because the term could indeed be interpreted in various ways. However, the terms "payments' and "repayments' are now included in the common term "repayments', which includes both the principal amount, interest, interest and interest and the amount of other charges. "Other charges' include, for example, the charges for ancillary contracts arising out of a mandatory insurance contract or the reminders that are sent to people. If a person pays the principal amount of the loan and the interest on the loan but does not pay interest or other contractual fees three consecutive times or this reminder, the bank may cancel the contract. We believe that this is an anti-consumer change, although at first sight it seems to be merely a clarification of the term. And how can you still charge interest on interest? In practice, if a person defaults, he or she will be awarded a debt repayment contract. Under the new law, the repayment consists, as has already been said, of a basic amount plus interest and other amounts. In practice, however, a debt repayment contract is no longer a consumer credit agreement, since it does not provide the consumer with loans for economic or professional activities or as a result. And since the debt repayment agreement is not a credit agreement, it is not subject to any restrictions on the consumer credit agreement. Consequently, it is not prohibited to charge interest, interest and any other charges imposed in the consumer credit agreement to protect the consumer, on the amount owed which becomes the principal under the new contract. Today, not a day goes by when we do not hear of tragic cases where whole families are being evicted. We can see how people's debt will be multiplied by the demand for new contracts. We have only recently heard that one person who took the loan, for example, did not receive any more euros from Bigbank, his loan increased to seven times the debt, and the payment schedule was signed for decades. We see banks selling debt on the Internet, loan managers say that the problem is not ours and recommend families with these children to contact the social services. But a man in debt doesn't go to court. Still, let us remember who created this loan boom in his day! Who lured people into borrowing at all costs? Know who the banks are! In fact, people were lent irresponsibly, borrowed without assessing their solvency and were given debts to people who were not actually able to repay it. The same fate can befall people who have taken consumer credit. The number of debtors is high and it is known what is currently happening behind the door of debt counselors there is rushing, because people are in trouble. For those who are already struggling with the repayment of the loan, the debt will grow as a snowball. Now the restrictions will be lifted, in addition to the retroactive amendment of the law. It is really shameful how the government, the Ministry of Justice and the whole coalition have made this consumer protection directive anti-consumer. This has not been the aim of the European Commission. Finally, from a technical point of view, I would also like to say why such an amendment was introduced in the context of the directive. By the way, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act, which essentially sets out the points of the consumer credit agreement, is about to enter the Chamber of the Riigikogu. It could have been very well to put a change in the definition of refund in there, but for some reason it was rushed. The point is that practice has shown that when transposing directives, the opinion on the amendment of the law is not sought from different interest groups, in this case, for example the Bar Association or the Association of Lawyers, but also from consumer protection, which probably would not have supported such a change. A certain green path has been chosen so that changes to the law can be introduced without a greater sound so that it does not reach the consciousness of all. Once again, the Central Party Group cannot support this bill and will vote against its anti-consumer law-modification. We call on the other groups to do the same. We very much hope that our opposition partners, the Social Democrats, will support us in this endeavour; consumer protection should be a common thing for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U283	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Let's get to the final vote. The vote on this draft shall not require verification of presence. Anybody want to take a break? Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U284	On behalf of the Central Party Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U285	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U286	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote a draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 266. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 19 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U287	Today's fourth item is the third reading of draft law 257 on the amendment of traffic law, public health law and medicine law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the groups want to open negotiations? Please, Viktor Vassilyev as representative of the Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U288	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This law, which you are now going to decide on, is one of those laws that does not attract any attention. There was no discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs about this either. Apparently, everyone was told it was a technical thing, either the recipes are patched up in one place or another, which is the difference. When you read the title of the law, it looks a little strange: it is a draft law amending the law on traffic, the law on public health and the medicine law. What is the relationship between traffic and drugs? Do you have to take some pills before you drive or after you drive? The law itself is actually quite interesting and, by the way, it is worthwhile to go into it, really. It says that the role of the controller of the prescription centre will be transferred from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. It goes because the Health Insurance Fund, as stated in the bill, is really linked to prescriptions, the Ministry of Social Affairs is not. That's what I'm getting at, but what else does the Ministry of Social Affairs have to do with anything? This is a problem that was highlighted by the strike of health professionals. In fact, before the strike, health care workers searched for two years to negotiate with. Nobody wanted to! In the Republic of Estonia, there is no institution or legal entity responsible for managing health care. The Ministry of Social Affairs prepares draft legislation. What our esteemed Minister of Social Affairs will order from them, they will write together, good officials. The Health Board issues licenses, i.e. licences, checks how services are provided, but does not run the health system. The Health Insurance Fund distributes the money that we pay for social tax, but he doesn't run the system either. Actually, there's no system as such. There's a bunch of private service providers, there's no single system that's subject to anyone. Processing recipes was the last relic left by the Ministry of Social Affairs, and now it was eradicated. If it has already been decided that the Ministry of Social Affairs will wash its hands of health care, then there is nothing to be done about it. Then who's responsible? Probably the Health Insurance Fund. However, it is the responsibility of the Health Insurance Fund to distribute the money that we pay for the provision of healthcare. Now they're gonna give him a ministry job. Okay, well, nothing really bad's gonna happen at the Health Insurance Fund. They're like good officials at the Ministry of Social Affairs. They can handle prescriptions. The draft also specifies the obligation for the pharmacy service provider to enter the information on the prescription issued in paper form into the prescription centre without delay after receipt of the prescription. So far, it's been given three days. I don't know where we're going with this. Supposedly, officials who process prescription data will experience some confusion if these data are not immediately received on-line. I don't know if we have to worry about those officials who can't do their job, but in fact, this point makes the life of pharmacists quite difficult. A lot has been said about the land pharmacies disappearing. We're trying to invent some alternative options and start offering drugs somewhere in the store, for my sake, even at the Statoil gas station, but this option would mean that they, too, would have to enter all the recipes on-line right away into the prescription centre. In general, there is a tendency to harass an entrepreneur, and it is a small business. We are talking about the need for a liberal economy, we need freedom to conduct a business. We should therefore encourage the good people who, in their own country, by using domestic resources, want to set up and develop a company. Pharmacies are actually small businesses. If we impose any additional obligations on them, it means that they have to either get better tools or hire someone to work, give someone additional tasks, these are excessive costs that they have to bear in order to make it more comfortable for the prescription centre to work. Where do they get this resource? Nobody gives money to pharmacists. They are not budgetary institutions, they have to earn their money and they earn it by selling us medicines. The only income they get is the money we pay from our own pockets for drugs. And, of course, when there's extra costs, who else than the buyer of the medicines is gonna pay for them? Now, of course, there are digital recipes. I started medical work 35 years ago, and then as a young doctor, I could take out any piece of paper and write a recipe, misce, da signa, fiat, numero... They're like Latin spells, right, which means take one substance and another, mix it together to get 20 powders that have to be taken in both ways. And there was nothing broken, and they were able to keep count very nicely! The recipes were very complicated, because then the powders and tinctures were used, which had to be mixed on site at the pharmacy. The pharmacy economy is, by the way, a very precise economy; the pharmacist is never wrong; he must never afford it; neither does his professional ethics. The apothecary is the one who is a special person who takes on this hard job, and that's what he thinks. You must, despite all the legal changes that are rolled at his feet, make him stumble. But he doesn't stumble, he doesn't fall because a good pharmacist has seen all kinds of times, all kinds of laws. He'll be fine! My time is running out. I wanted to talk more about how it would change the traffic management, that the data would have to be transferred to the Road Administration. The Road Administration is not ready for this because health data are covered by data protection and there are special systems through which this information must move. I don't know what's gonna happen to it. In fact, nothing bad will happen if this law is passed, because there is also a point that certain requirements are postponed, they do not have to be met immediately. The pharmacists will manage, and the Road Administration will manage, because they have really been given time to prepare for the transmission of databases. We'll get ready to vote, too. I believe we can all vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U289	Extraordinary timing! Thank you very much! No further requests have been registered for the time being, so I will close the negotiations. We shall proceed to the final vote. Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U290	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Before the vote on draft 257, we would like to discuss all the issues raised very thoroughly and ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U291	Of course! Repetitio est mater studiorum. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U292	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote draft law 257 amending the Traffic Act, the Public Health Act and the Pharmaceutical Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 70 delegates voted in favour, and no one is against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U293	Our fifth item today is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Investment Bank" submitted by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Peter Laurson, member of the Chair of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U294	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft decision "Enlargement of the Republic of Estonia's participation in the European Investment Bank" after its first reading at its meeting on 5 November. The purpose of the draft is to approve the proposal to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the share capital of the Bank and to authorise the Government of the Republic to carry out the activities necessary to increase the participation. The aim of the bank's capital increase is to support sustainable growth and job creation in the European Union. One amendment was received by Riigikogu member Rainer Vakra by the deadline for submitting amendments, 1 November at 18 o'clock. The content of the proposal was to take the necessary steps to increase the bank's capital at a slower pace. The amendment was not supported, as the rapid increase in capital will have a very positive impact on growth and job creation in the countries of the European Union, and accelerated capital payments will be important for ensuring a high rating of the European Investment Bank. The Commission also stated that this was a financing transaction and not a cost of the state budget, so the contribution of capital does not affect the balance of the state budget. The need for accelerated contributions was discussed in depth. The approach of other countries is the same: capital contributions are made as soon as possible. The point is, I repeat, promoting growth, creating jobs at a faster pace and maintaining the AAA rating. The question was also raised as to whether there would be any additional conditions for later payments. There are no additional conditions, the loan will still be granted according to the criteria set by the bank. The Commission unanimously decided to refer the draft to second reading on 14 November, to close the second reading of the draft and to put it to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U295	Thank you very much. We're going to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U296	Dear waitress, According to the terms of the capital increase adopted at the end of June, a day such as 14 September was set. Before that date, Member States could decide not to pay their participation in one amount at a time, but to split it into three: 50% will be paid in the following year and then 25% in two years. The decision that the Republic of Estonia will pay the required amount in one year at a time was taken without the Riigikogu. Do you think this is how these things work? Was the Government of the Republic competent to take such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U297	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U298	This was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U299	Good colleague! We know that companies are also able to obtain loans from the European Investment Bank, and a number of companies have taken advantage of this possibility. This bill includes Eesti Energia, Elering, Regional Hospital, Elisa, Muuga Port, etc. Can you tell us why a company should prefer a loan from the European Investment Bank to a loan from another bank?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U300	Loans from the European Investment Bank are at better interest rates than loans from private banks. And since these loans are more geared towards financing promising business projects and achieving the European Union's policy objectives, companies will have the opportunity to obtain larger and better loans there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U301	Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U302	Good waitress! I remember quite clearly that until recently, the capital of the European Investment Bank was increased from the bank's own reserves, and then we had a bill with the same title on the table. Now we're giving them real extra capital. Did you discuss in the Commission whether the European Investment Bank has any serious liquidity problems, that this capital needs to be constantly increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U303	No, the European Investment Bank does not have any serious liquidity problems. In order to guarantee the AAA's rating, it is appropriate to guarantee greater certainty and capital is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U304	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U305	Honourable waitress! Would you like to introduce a little of the only amendment tabled by my colleague Rainer Vakra? What pace did he now offer to replace what was stated in the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U306	Rainer Vakra's proposal was to increase capital in three instalments: 50% in 2013, 25% in 2014, 25% in 2015 and to make all these capital increases in March of those years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U307	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U308	Honourable waitress! In general, it seems to me that the Estonian Government is very kind to distribute our taxpayers' money outside, even though its own people are struggling. For example, giving the guarantee to the EFSF was not a problem, the real contribution of the ESM was not a problem, and now I understand that making a capital contribution of EUR 7 million to the European Investment Bank is not a problem either. Here is the question: did the Commission in general discuss that we have enough internal problems? We use our taxpayers' money in this way, but taxpayers will not get anything back from it, for example, our teachers, doctors and municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U309	Yes, the Commission discussed this. We tried to explain the financial-economic principles to the members of the Commission, and finally those members of the Commission, who previously held a different opinion, realised that the contribution to capital did not affect the balance of the state budget. If this money were used to pay salaries, it would affect the balance of the state budget, but it is now a financing transaction. It's two things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U310	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U311	Ladies and gentlemen, You said that this was a financing transaction and that this would not change the balance of the state budget. But where does the country find this EUR 7138000?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U312	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U313	It's planned for next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U314	Honourable waitress! You said that the share capital of the investment bank must be increased in order to ensure that the bank's credit rating is maintained at the AAA level. Can you tell us why the bank's high credit rating so far has been compromised?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U315	Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U316	As there is a financial crisis in Europe, it was decided that the bank could be better capitalised to guarantee the bank's rating. In this case, there will be no debate at all so that it can fall below the AA.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U317	Good waitress! The draft we are discussing today was launched on 27 September. By that time, the deadline for Estonia to pay its capital in several parts was already over. In fact, we should have discussed this bill before 14 September then the Riigikogu would have been able to decide whether Estonia would make one capital payment or distribute it into several parts. Then why was this bill late? Was it someone's finger, recklessness, laziness, or was it because of the desire to exclude the Riigikogu from the important part of the decision-making process?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U318	The decision-making process has not been delayed. However, we did not discuss these questions in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U319	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U320	Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the Estonian state has an active loan agreement with the European Investment Bank, which was signed in 2009 for five years, amounting to 550 million euros. How much of this is currently being used in Estonia? If that was still the case in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U321	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U322	This was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U323	Dear waitress, I wanted to ask you something else, but looking at the trend our debate is taking in this Chamber, I'm going back to my first question. My personal opinion is that even if the Commission did not discuss one thing or another, the role of the representative of the Commission is the decision taken to interpret the ideology or, I do not know, the trend in the Commission. Therefore, the reply that was not discussed in the Commission cannot be accepted. The story was that the Estonian state had to take a decision like any other Member State. On the basis of the decision that we will pay as one sum next year, the Government of the Republic has just adopted without the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U324	You yourself were at the committee meeting and there was a debate on Rainer Vakra's proposal to make taxes in three parts. The Commission disregarded this. We consider it appropriate that capitalisation should take place at a faster pace, in which case there is no doubt that the AAA rating could be compromised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U325	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U326	Honourable waitress! I'm really sorry I'm asking you this, because I think it's been asked three times. But I still didn't understand. Could you open up a little bit of the content of this debate instead of quoting the explanatory statement again? Why did the Commission oppose Rainer Vakra's proposal? What did the debate say about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U327	The debate was that if this money were to be used at a different pace, if the share capital were to be increased at a slower rate, how much the state would benefit from it. It was said that the State would certainly win more money if the rating of the investment bank was not compromised. In this case, Estonian companies will receive loans as they have so far received, and much more money will come to the country through this business. The amounts used for business and job creation will bring us much more money in taxes, which we can use in the state budget. They said it was the main reason. If we don't make the deposit quickly, the bank's rating could be compromised for some reason in x. This may not happen, but if it does, the damage may be much greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U328	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U329	Dear waitress, This debate in this Chamber made me look at the website of the European Investment Bank. I wanted to find out more about what the bank is doing, which projects are funding. I learned that around 90% of the loans are granted for the implementation of programmes and projects within the European Union. Do you know which regions and projects will receive the remaining 10% of the loans? Perhaps you have discussed this in your committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U330	Even briefly, we didn't discuss it. We didn't touch the bank's insides.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U331	Next question, Mr Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U332	Dear Peeter Laurson! Before, my colleague, Vladimir Velman, asked how much Estonian EIB loans have been used and what are the plans for the future. You said it wasn't discussed. In fact, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been given a very detailed overview of these loans. I put it to you, like Mikhail Stalnuking, that if other issues concerning the EIB have been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it would be appropriate to speak about it here in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu. But my question is that draft 285 was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 5 November. Three days later, on 8 November, Postimees's economic side has released news that banks are stimulating the economy of Central and Southern Europe with EUR 30 billion. It also states that the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Development Bank announced in a joint statement that they will invest more than €30 billion in boosting growth in Central and Southern European countries in 2013 and 2014. Would it have been appropriate to inform the Riigikogu of this information before this decision was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U333	Obviously, this information would not have changed our decision given the climate that existed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the issues that were at first reading in this Chamber. I would stress that our share of the paid-up capital is 0.071%. In fact, the bank's capital will increase to EUR 21.6 billion in contributions, which is a large amount of EUR 7.1 million, but is only 0.071%. The bank has places other than the Estonian state where it finances.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U334	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U335	Good colleague! Estonia's participation in the European Investment Bank is 0.071%, which seems rather small. My question has to do with this. Could you give us an overview of the share of the European Union's large Member States in share capital? Was this discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U336	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U337	This was not a separate debate, we did not examine how many parts belong to one country or another. There was no such debate, so I cannot say it here right now. If there is any interest in this, it can certainly be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U338	Dear waitress, I am always amazed by the rhetoric that is used when we hand money to Europe, no matter who asks and when. There's no way they're given to their people to die or starve. It's still because there's no money. In this case, whether it is a financing transaction or not, it is real money that will be paid and will never be recovered again. It is seven million euros that more policemen, teachers, anyone, would need. And if we didn't pay the 0.071% you were talking about, it wouldn't leave the investment bank in trouble. Where does it come from, that to anyone outside Estonia we are always prepared to give, but to our people by no means?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U339	Good member of the Riigikogu! I'm sure you read the explanatory statement and your colleagues also indicated that Estonian companies have received loans of 1.3 billion euros from the European Investment Bank during the 2009-2012 period and the Estonian state has signed a loan agreement for five years, amounting to 550 million euros. This is a very large amount of money and, as I have already mentioned, thanks to these investments, many, many people have certainly been employed in Estonia. These loans have brought much more money to the state budget in the form of taxes than if we had just left it in the state budget. I would also stress that we could not have used this money as you are trying to imagine here. It is still money earmarked for financing operations and the money used for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U340	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U341	Good waitress, Peter Laurson! The European Investment Bank grants loans to both countries and companies, and several Estonian companies have received loans from this bank. The explanatory memorandum to the first reading of the draft under discussion states that Eesti Energia, Elering, North-Estonian Regional Hospital, Elisa and Muuga Port have been granted loans in 2009. Can you tell us what the main differences are when a private company receives a loan and when it is received by the state? Under what conditions do private companies receive loans and under what conditions do the European Investment Bank receive loans from countries? Was this discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U342	We did not address the exact interest rates, but, according to our data, they are far lower than for loans from private banks. This is also justified because the capitalisation of the European Investment Bank is high and the control of the use of money for the purpose is somewhat different.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U343	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U344	Honourable waitress! I think this may not have been discussed in the Commission this time, but maybe someday before, so maybe you could enlighten us too. We're always talking about being very business-friendly. You also answered my question: after all, companies invest and create jobs. How is it possible that we are so friendly and that we like investors, but at the same time we have lost more than 100,000 jobs in four years? According to the Health Insurance Fund, there are 100,000 fewer people insured by employers than in 2008. So where is this job creation, and what kind of investors are those who invest and take advantage of it, but at the same time do not create jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U345	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U346	Apparently, we have different data. Unemployment is currently almost at the level of 2008, and rather we have a shortage of labour. The workforce has certainly moved across different spheres, but the situation is returning to normal after the recession. The current signs indicate this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U347	Ladies and gentlemen, We know that Estonia's stake in the investment bank is 0.071%. We do not know how much Estonia has benefited from this. Really, a fairly solid list of companies that have received loans from this bank, but would you still specify how much this has had to reduce our unemployment? How much has the use of investment bank loans helped to boost our economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U348	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U349	The amount of loans received by companies has already been mentioned several times. You yourself know that it is not possible to keep a very precise account of how much, in particular, one or the other euro has created jobs. However, it is estimated that such investments will have a very large impact on job creation. This amount is much higher than we are now giving up the capital increase. We found there was nothing to worry about. Rather, we could welcome the fact that we are a member of this bank and that our companies are able to obtain certain loans from it on favourable terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U350	Good waitress! My question is this: was it mandatory for the Estonian state to make a contribution? In other words, have all the shareholders of the bank decided to make contributions in proportion to their participation in the bank?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U351	The Estonian state could certainly not have made this contribution. However, the interest of the Estonian state is that we continue in the same position as we have been participating in this bank. We do not want to reduce our participation in this bank. That is why this bill is on this table today so that our ability to obtain a loan is not reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U352	Please, Mr Kalla, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U353	Dear waitress, You shall justify the payment of this contribution with the possibility of obtaining a loan. It's not like you have to own a bank's shares to borrow a loan! All those people who have taken loans from SEB Bank and Swedbank to build their homes have not been subject to the condition that they do not receive the loan until they buy the bank's shares. So one thing is a loan that has to be paid back, it's a separate thing. But there are a lot of problems in Estonia that need to be resolved, and as you said in the previous reply, there would have been another way. It should not have been necessary to increase its participation. It remained open why this participation must necessarily be increased, and the loan can also be taken from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U354	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U355	Capital was also noted when Estonia joined the European Union in the Statute of the Bank, which is also in the Protocol to the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. That's one reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U356	Honourable waitress! You were right to make a comment when I raised the issue of salaries. I said more than wages that our country, or more specifically the public authorities, are the biggest employers and subscribers in this sense. But here's my question. First of all, did you have a choice of 7 million, 6 million or 4 million? And secondly, what's the proportion? We are a small country and the amount paid is quite large. How can this proportion be compared with that of other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U357	Estonia's subscribed capital in the bank initially amounted to 117.64 million euros. From this point of view, an increase was started. What is the share of the various Member States, we did not touch on in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U358	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U359	The rapporteur from the Commission. The current government, in its words, has called for a budgetary balance to be very important for them and, therefore, a huge number of tasks that the EIB will be useful in carrying out must be carried out. For example, anti-employment measures have been used in a large part of the European Union's aid, which helps to make the budget balance look good. How can this EIB loan be assessed from the point of view of the fiscal balance of the Estonian state? How does this affect the balance of our budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U360	The EIB loan does not affect the balance of the state budget in the way you think it will. That should be specified; we did not discuss it in the Commission. I'm not gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U361	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U362	Good performer! You have now been able to answer a lot of questions, and in the end you could simply say, "Yes or no. ' Is that a good bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U363	Yeah, that's a good bill. Estonian entrepreneurs want to borrow from the European Investment Bank and the terms and conditions of the loan have so far been much more favourable than in private capital banks. The Estonian state has also received a loan from it. That's a very good bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U364	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U365	Good waitress, I'm sure it's a very good bill. If you don't mind, I'll ask you one more detail. Of course, lending is always linked to risks, and during the debate on the European stability mechanisms, even the representatives of the IRL and Reform Party in the government coalition had to admit that it might happen that from time to time we will also end up in the worst scenarios. It is therefore also necessary to monitor negative scenarios, which will happen if they are fulfilled, even if at first it seems unlikely. So my question is: how many so-called bad loans do the European Investment Bank have?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U366	I don't know. This is not what we discussed or tried to find out about the volume of bad loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U367	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Laurson. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U368	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President! The Estonian Centre Party Group does not support this draft, and in the next eight minutes I will try to explain to you why. In fact, I would rather vote against or simply not participate. The European Investment Bank belongs to the European Union, or 27 Member States. The European Investment Bank borrows money from capital markets and provides low-interest loans for projects that improve infrastructure, energy security or environmental standards in the European Union, its neighbouring countries and developing countries. In addition, the investment bank does not use the budgetary resources of the European Union, the money is borrowed on preferential terms for projects compatible with the objectives of the European Union's policy. Around 90% of the loans are granted to programmes and projects within the European Union. In total, the loan has six priority objectives, as set out in the Bank's business plan. Firstly, cohesion and convergence; secondly, support for small and medium-sized enterprises; thirdly, environmental sustainability; fourthly, implementation of the "Initiation and Innovation 2010"; fifthly, the development of trans-European transport and energy networks, which I think include loans that were granted by Muuga Sadam and AS Elering; and sixthly, sustainable, competitive and secure energy, which I think led to the loan of Eesti Energia. Now we have been asked to increase our participation by an amount such as EUR 7138000. In addition, the entire amount should be paid. I quote the government press release from the end of September: "The purpose of the bank's capital increase is to support sustainable growth and job creation in the European Union. " That's such a beautiful, I'd say, a beautiful and romantic picture. I read about ten articles that have been printed on the subject since September. Somehow, no positive comments were found. Of course, Net commentators can be viewed as such and as such, but they are part of our constituents and what they say needs to be listened to. I'll bring you a small selection of the comments I found. Of course, the most obscene and vile ones I threw out, I'm not going to quote them, but I'm going to read some to you. "For this kind of money," says one commentator, "we could create nice jobs here ourselves, why do we have to give it somewhere else? " The second commentator states that the state does not carry out jobs - businessmen. The survival of a citizen is a citizen's concern. That must be the most neutral comment. "How come it doesn't?" disagrees with the following. "Someone named Laar promised to create 60 new jobs. " And specifically on the subject of this article, one commentator concluded: "Not the state, but the government does not deal with jobs. Care remains to be taken to ensure that the next government is one that creates jobs." Pretty typical are opinions that sound something like this. Local doctors are starting to strike, I recall, it was the end of September, some time ago the teachers were on strike. There is no more money for them to pay, but at the same time, we are running to support the free-style Greeks immediately. Jne. You can see what or who's more important to this government, whether it's your people or... I would say that such a position is quite general. But that is not why we are not supporting this bill. I would remind you that, at first reading, a colleague of ours asked the Minister for Finance this question: 'In the case of contributions to increase the share capital, Member States have different options. Some Member States have thought that a lump sum payment would be more beneficial for them, yet the possibility is given to divide this contribution into three years. On what basis did Estonia decide to transfer 7 million at once next year? " The Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, replied: "It is within our reach. That's all. There's no point in stalling and hindering cooperation. I mean, as we understand it, we will not be able to increase our benefits from the next year, even from the third child. This will only take place in the election year, 2015. From next year, we will not be able to restore the support for the coast, there will be no money for the tens of the objectives needed, but this will be 7 million euros and 138000 euros will be a piece of cake. I will repeat to you what I have already told you on this issue. At the meeting of the Council of Heads of State or Government of the European Union on 28 and 29 June 2002, it was decided to increase the Bank's capital by 10 billion, and each Member State was given the opportunity to choose how it will do so: either 50% of all the money will be issued in the following year before 31 March or 31 March and 25% in the next two years. It's real money. It is real money, it is specifically written in euro. For some reason, out of a desire to look better than we are, instead of maintaining the three and a half million in the budget and solving the most difficult problems facing our population today, we will begin to spit out and lay out the entire amount, or EUR 7138000 at a time. This decision was taken by the Government of the Republic. This is not democracy. The Estonian state is more of us in this hall than the Government of the Republic. We had to decide that. This is a violation of the principles of democracy. We do not support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U369	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us now go to the examination of the amendments. Mr Vakra has tabled the only proposal to amend this bill. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Dear colleague Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U370	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U371	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U372	Before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U373	I'd love to! Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U374	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by my colleague Rainer Vakra, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Now we have the opportunity to go to the final vote. Please, dear Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U375	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I ask for a ten-minute break before the final vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U376	Dear Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Investment Bank 285. Please vote! 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 5 against and 3 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U377	Please, ten minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U378	The second reading of the draft State Budget Act 2013 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester. Wait a minute! What is it, Mr Sõerd?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U379	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have a procedural question. For the second reading, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has drawn up a draft text with proposals for improvement, but among them are those which, according to the current law, should not be there. I am thinking of the proposals for improvement where the introduction of progressive income tax, the restoration of classic corporate tax or the reduction of the tax hole are mentioned as a source of coverage. According to the current law, proposals for amendments with such a source of coverage cannot be added to the list of amendments, as they are contrary to both the State Budget Act and other laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U380	Dear colleague Aivar Sõerd, The amendments are being discussed by the Commission, currently by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Finance has tabled these amendments to the large Chamber and the President simply puts them to the vote or does not put them to the vote. The President cannot make any other decision in this case; it is the work of the Commission. Let's start with the second reading of the state budget. Please to Mr Sven Sester's speaking desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U381	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the second reading of Bill 278 of the 2013 State Budget Act. The first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2013 initiated by the Government of the Republic took place in the Riigikogu's plenary session. a on 23 and 24 October 2004. The first reading of the draft was completed. The deadline for submitting amendments was set in s. a 1 November at 6 p.m. During the procedure for the draft state budget, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has listened to all ministers in order to obtain a detailed overview of the budgets of the governing areas. Before the first reading, most ministers came to the Commission, and I gave you an overview of their activities and priorities at first reading of the budget. Between the first and second readings, the Commission met with Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment and Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs (on 5 November), and Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Defence (on 6 November). At its meeting on 6 November, the Commission also discussed amendments. First of all, I will give you an overview of the issues that were discussed in the Commission together with the three ministers. The Minister of the Environment provided the Commission with feedback that the estimated budget for 2013 was half that of 2012. However, he stated that it was rather a reduction in the costs of selling emission allowances from revenue. In addition, some investments have been completed. The Minister of the Environment also mentioned the priority that EUR 100 million will be spent next year on various water projects. 11 million units of allowances will be realised next year. EUR 22,2 million has been planned to generate revenue from the sale of allowances through possible auctions. Half of these financial resources will be channelled through KredEx to make apartment buildings energy efficient. The Minister for the Environment was asked in the Committee on Finance about the possible restructuring of the Environment Agency. The Minister of the Environment said that, in principle, certain restructurings took place some time ago, not too long ago. The Minister does not think there is any need for further changes to the structural units. For example, it does not consider it necessary to abolish the regions mentioned in the case of the Tax and Customs Board. There was a question of selling unreformed land. I would like to remind you that one of the sources of the proposals today is the sale of unreformed land. The Minister noted that the sale of state land to the extent foreseen by the Social Democrats is not optimal under the long-term plan. The market situation is not at a peak in terms of the price of the plots; rather, it is at a low level. There was an interest in trading greenhouse gases under the law. Here the answer was given that it was based on the law on ambient air protection. There is also a pan-European system with which we have joined. The Minister of Social Affairs reported that the 2013 budget is 3 billion euros, which is the largest of the Estonian ministries' budgets. Of this, health insurance accounts for 850 million euros. The pension will rise by 5% next year and the cost of public pension insurance will increase by EUR 93.3 million. For its part, the state transfers EUR 9 million to the mandatory funded pension funds for residents. The paternity leave lost during the recession will be restored. Social benefits represent 33.6% of the total budget in 2013, or EUR 2.2 billion. Compared to the 2012 budget, social welfare expenditure will increase by EUR 114,6 million, i.e. 5.6%. In addition, the Minister for Social Affairs mentioned that needs-based child benefits would be added. According to the agreement, child support for families with one child living in relative poverty will be increased from EUR 19,18 to EUR 28,77 in July and from EUR 38,36 in 2015 onwards. The need-based support for families with two children will be €57.54 from the coming year and €76.72 per month from 2015. Existing family benefits will be maintained. In addition, the third and more children's allowance for all families with three or more children will increase in the coming year from EUR 57.54 to EUR 76.72 and from 2015 to EUR 95.9. Additional child benefits are not taken into account in the payment of income support. If three or more children are born into the family, the birth allowance per child shall be increased to more than three times the amount of EUR 1000 per child. The Minister of Defence stated in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that, like last year, the defence budget will remain at 2% of GDP in 2013. As a NATO border country, Estonia must have the primary independent defence capacity to ensure the Estonian state's survival and protection against any unexpected events. The allocation of 2% of GDP to defence costs ensures a stable and long-term development of Estonia's defence capabilities. The infrastructure investment budget will increase by nearly 27%. A large part of this money, namely EUR 9 million, is intended to improve the living conditions of conscripts. The central polygon of the Defence Forces will also be developed, the technical park of the city of Tapa will be built, and modern infrastructure will be built for the battle school in Võru. The biggest procurements will come next year, according to the Minister of Defence in the field of communication and IT. He also mentioned that in 2008 an Estonian national defence development plan was carried out, which was reviewed every four years. He stated that there was a highlight in 2008. This plan must certainly now be reviewed, as the amounts that could be invested through this development plan do not match at the moment. Now take a look at the amendments. The amendments were received by the deadline of 100 and the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself drafted one amendment, so we had 101 amendments on the table. The amendment proposed by the Finance Committee consists largely of technical amendments to be made within the remit of several ministries and clarification of the text of § 16. The proposal has been drawn up on the basis of additional information from ministries and specific explanations have been added after each amendment. The Committee on Finance examined the amendments and decided to include them in the list of amendments. At the same time, the Commission points out that amendments have been tabled which are not covered by the basic law on the state budget. That's what they asked about just a moment ago. Amendments to the State Budget Act are regulated by the Basic State Budget Act and the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. The sources of cover provided for in the proposal must be both acceptable and possible. A number of amendments by the Estonian Centre Party Group are covered by increasing income tax receipts, both for private individuals and for businesses. At the same time, the Riigikogu procedure has not submitted a draft law amending the Income Tax Act, nor has the amendment of the Income Tax Act been included in the proposal, nor has any relevant calculations of the different forecast of the revenue of the state budget have been submitted. These amendments were rejected by the Commission. The Commission also failed to take account of the proposal made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party as a single proposal for a number of amendments. The main reasons and information here are as follows: The need to increase student loans by EUR 8.6 million remains unclear. The increase would then be more than 100% planned in the budget, plus an increase in indirect costs. The revenues of local governments, including tax revenues, have reached the 2008 level in 2013, i.e. the year before the cut. Part of the resources for raising the salaries of teachers should be the result of a review of the school organisation. In the case of the family benefit system, the aim is to increase the necessity of the system instead of extending the non-discipline. I already mentioned the sale of unreformed state land. Once again, in view of the current market situation, we have found that this source of cover is not the best. Instead of introducing individual progressive income tax and increasing tax rates, the majority in the Commission was rather in favour of further reducing the income tax share of the income earned by the person, with the aim of leaving the person more in his hands than the money he earned. An example of this is the law in force in 2015, which will further reduce the share of income tax by 1%. The Commission also did not support the amendments of the Estonian Centre Party Group, the content of which is to increase investments in several kindergartens and schools, cultural institutions and objects, and the investment of the new building of the Estonian National Museum has been shown as a source of cover. In total, the proposals aim to allocate almost €1 million to the cultural, educational and social activities of local authorities. At the same time, the Central Party is proposing to push the construction of ERM into a more distant future. The Finance Committee decided that the financing of local authorities' investments was based on a prior analysis of actual needs and the capacity of the beneficiary to invest. With regard to the source of cover, the majority of the Committee on Monetary Affairs felt that the European Commission had assessed ERM as an excessive tourist destination, but never doubted the need to build a new building. During the negotiations on the 2013 budget, no additional resources were allocated to the state budget for the construction of the new ERM building, as the financing under Paragraph 7 (1) of the Gambling Act is provided for through cultural capital. The Commission took the following decisions: First, contact the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to obtain an opinion on the statement in the letter of the Association of Municipalities and Cities that the 2013 state budget is in breach of the Constitution (this decision was consensual). Secondly, to put the draft budget on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 14 November (this decision was also consensual). Thirdly, the second reading was to be completed (with 6 votes in favour and 4 against and no abstentions). Fourthly, set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 28 November (this decision was also consensual). Thank you for listening and for a meaningful debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U382	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Let us now begin by asking questions and answering them. First of all, it is a question for my colleague, Mr Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U383	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I want good advice from you. The members of the Riigikogu who belong to the IRL and Reform Party voted down all amendments tabled by the opposition in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There was a subtext that didn't fit the sources. For example, we had amendments that were intended to give several kindergartens in Narva EUR 10,000 to develop a immersion there. After all, we all understand that the knowledge of Estonian is important and that it should be started from kindergarten onwards. Please tell me how it would be possible to formulate an amendment after the second and third readings in such a way that the source of cover is suitable for you. I have noticed that the Integration and Migration Foundation has quite a lot of money that should be designed to develop integration. But instead of making a film about blood sausage and smoked herring, 77000 euros have been spent on the film of eight reform parties, Ojuland and Pentus among them. So there's money. How can this proposal be formalised so that you support it and that money goes to kindergartens?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U384	Thank you. It is always a question of which sources of cover a particular MP or a political group envisages when making amendments. This should not only concern a specific subject, but all the policies pursued by one or another MP or political group. I think that there should normally be consultations within the parties on the decisions on which to choose the sources of cover. It is also necessary to pass on the ideas and guidelines that are to be reached. Let me give you an example. Today we are dealing with the draft state budget law for next year, the amendments of which have a number of sources of cover, with which the concept of the state budget of the majority of the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not coincide in any way. I will, for example, bring about an amendment to the Income Tax Act, which you have provided as a source of cover. I leave aside that you do not have a draft law in this regard in the proceedings, so we should not mention how much this change would bring to the Estonian state money or, on the other hand, how much it would take out of our people's wallets. You didn't have that line of reasoning. But we may have said that you have provided for 220 million euros to be taken from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, because this is the sum that is the source of your amendments. Dear colleague, I say once again that you have this opportunity, you are expressing your will with it, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not consider it necessary. The same is true for possible object-specific amendments. You had at stake either the Estonian National Museum or some other specific object. Let's be honest, I'm guessing there were 85 objects on the table of 96 objects. After all, the amendments were subject-specific. This is the place of the decision: do you prefer ditch drainage or the construction of ERM in a particular case? You could raise the question that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U385	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U386	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The first amendment, which is on the list of amendments proposed by the Centre Party, is an increase of EUR 1100000 in school food aid to extend this support to upper secondary school and increase it from the current 78 cents to EUR 1. Yesterday we heard in this Chamber how members of the coalition defended the draft increase in child benefits. The aim of this draft is to support children living in poverty. I think that our first amendment fits very well with the draft that the coalition defended yesterday. What are the reasons why the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support this proposal, except that the source was not suitable?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U387	Thank you. That's a very good question. I'm gonna start from behind, and I'm gonna get to the bottom of your question. On the one hand, there are shields, we can't get over them or around them. You had foreseen an increase in income tax as a source of cover. However, the majority of the Commission did not find that such tax increases should be made in the near future. That's one side of it. Secondly, I inform all listeners that EUR 14.8 million is earmarked for municipal schools in the budget and EUR 2.4 million for vocational schools in the budget. The question now is that we need to look at whether we should not change the system under which the school lunch grant is now being distributed at all. Should the support that has been available so far not be made needs-based? It may also be possible to increase school lunch support with the available money by making it needs-based. Don't forget, we only operate with the money we have. We can't take extra money where there's nothing to take. Consequently, we must set our priorities. I think it would certainly be necessary to consider in the near future, perhaps at the beginning of the year, whether to make this system needs-based. Should we support all children without limit, both me and your children with school food support? I think there are certainly many people in Estonia who need it more. Maybe we should start some kind of redistribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U388	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U389	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I have a general question for you. It sometimes says 'deeply philosophical' about such questions. I'm not going to talk about this any further. I'm just saying it's personal to me. Look, it seems to me that right now our legislation looks something like this. There's a long boat with 56 rowers on one side and 45 on the other. Those sitting on one side row, but the others just keep the oars in the water. This is not the way to move forward. It means making circles and constantly going back to places where people have already been. Do you think there'll ever be a bright moment and we'll still be working creatively together, not accepting budgets by order?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U390	Thank you. Good Mikhail! Since it was a deeply philosophical question, I am also trying to approach it philosophically. Let's still look at things in the bigger picture, let's not just look at the budget. In addition to the budget, there are dozens and dozens of drafts that we formalised as laws yesterday and which we will formalise as laws tomorrow. I can say that most of the drafts are approved by both sides, both you and us, and I think that this will also happen with a great many amendments. It gets more intense when very clear political decisions come. It's hard to compromise. I'll remind you of last year. I must say that this year, no proposal had used a reduction in defence costs as a source of cover. Why it wasn't, I don't know. They beat that drum pretty hard last year. If you know that you want to bring defence costs to 2% of GDP, which you have previously agreed with your partners, it is difficult to reach a compromise that we will then agree on 1.8%. It's hard. I think that it is often very difficult to agree on these issues, which are very clearly political in nature. But politics is an art of compromise, and I hope for the best. I believe that we will still come to an agreement in the future on some matters, only between the fact that the coalition must always be held accountable, the opposition does not have that responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U391	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U392	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! I've known you a long time. You're trying to explain your positions fairly honestly from your point of view. I ask you: what should I say to my constituents or to your constituents when I meet them on the street and people want to know what are a couple or three things that are well done in the budget, what would they agree with and what would they vote for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U393	Thank you, good Vladimir! Oh, there's a lot of these subjects! We are now going a little slippery, going further and further than the Commission's debate. There's always a question of where and at what point should we back off. But if that's what you asked and you kicked up the ball, then I'm gonna bring out a couple of issues to the representatives of opposition parties in particular. This may help to support the budget today and to adopt it in the future. The first thing is that if we adopt this budget, we will increase people's social security. Necessary child benefits will be introduced, pensions will increase and the wage costs of management areas will increase. Remember when the last wage was raised in the public sector! Among others, salaries rise for teachers, internal security and cultural workers, defence forces and health professionals. Secondly, next year students will be able to study at the university free of charge. I think it's very important. To this end, the state will also find money in the budget next year. At the same time, needs-based learning grants are launched. In addition, I hope that this will also be done by Parliament to organise the school network, to ensure close to home basic education and high-quality upper secondary school education. Dealing with education will be a clear priority next year. I want to thank the Minister for Education, who is very forceful in this matter. The balance of the state budget, which has been discussed little, is very important. It is very easy to raise funds in the budget by increasing the deficit and putting this money into expenditure (this is the worst option) or investment (this is a slightly softer option). Why is it crazy? I, too, have been approached by several people during the budgetary procedure and said that what if you took 0.1% of GDP and put it somewhere, usually in terms of wage costs. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that, next year, extra money will be needed for wage costs. We see where Europe is with its budget deficit. I think that the fact that our budget is almost balanced is also one good thing that we can be proud of in Estonia, looking at Europe and, in fact, the whole world. Structurally, next year we are already 0.1% plus, nominal deficit is 0.7%. The difference between structural and nominal positions is that if we take away one-off costs and revenues, we get a structural position. The government has a clear desire to reach a nominal plus in the coming years. I think it's a great value in itself, that we're going to collect reserves. Dozens of other topics will bear a very clear positive line next year. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth voting in favour of this budget. Next year will be the lowest tax burden in the last five years. Acts are rising, but unemployment insurance is falling. I think it's positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U394	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U395	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, The budget can be done in the right way, either in an accountant or politically. The accounting approach is one where, compared to last year, something can only be changed by taking all the money or a certain amount of money from the line that has been written so far and writing it on another line. The political principle sets priorities and directions for development. In this case, the amount of the budget usually changes quite little, but very much changes in the budget figures. They say they do so-called pharmacist work. Am I right to understand that, in the budgetary procedure, we, the opposition, have the right only to 'accountant work', to move things from one pile to another, and it will also be voted down afterwards? Or what's that thing supposed to look like to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U396	I guess the question's over, huh? Thank you, Aadu! No, not at all. I think that the debates that have taken place both in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and here at first reading and are currently taking place at second reading are necessary. These debates are not just for us. I think that although it is late in the evening and, for some reason, the start of the draft procedure has been delayed, there are more people who are listening to it than a handful of people in the Chamber. I imagine these debates will open everyone's eyes and shape opinions. I believe that you and I both say that the very right thing is that you can't just change one number or another, you know, there has to be an understanding. I think you have it, and the coalition has it. Let's just take the same tax policy. We have our own ideas. I'm not saying that your understanding is wrong and mine is right. I think these perceptions have different support groups. I hope that my understanding is correct, but I would say that there are certainly supporters to your understanding, otherwise you would not have such a large and powerful representation in the Riigikogu. This debate in the Chamber of Riigikogu is welcome, but mostly in the Commission. I certainly encourage proposals at all times. The problem I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, which Mr Sõerd also asked about during procedural questions, is that amendments are being made over and over again. What do I mean by that? Still, the fact that many of the amendments made by the Centre Party have not actually set out how the sources of cover are intended to be realised. Hat off here in front of you. This is precisely in the context that when they proposed amendments, they showed what they wanted to do. They said that, according to their understanding, progressive income tax should be this way and this way, they brought in the percentages. They put this bill into business. They said they thought a lean alcohol excise should rise like this and so much. They have tabled such an amendment. They worked with the sources of cover in this context. I say, my good colleague, not personally to you, but to all colleagues, that if you want to make amendments in the future, do what can be discussed, otherwise we will get to the situation that Aivar was talking about. In fact, the question is whether we should discuss these amendments at all and could discuss them. Once again, there would have been an alternative to eliminating at least half of the amendments. Take the chance and ask me why we didn't do it, and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U397	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U398	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, While waiting for this question and your answer, I will ask you about another subject. As we well know, everything is connected today. As a previous point, we discussed increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Investment Bank in the grand hall of the Riigikogu. We asked the rapporteur, who was a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, how much this will affect Estonia's budget for next year. To say the least, he didn't answer us. Would the chairman of the committee explain this in more detail?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U399	Thank you, good Enn! Of course I'll answer where I can get away! Well, I guess I'll just have to answer. I'll be honest with you, I won't. I'll explain why it doesn't work. This is a classic transaction in the meaning of Estonian state money, where money is put into increasing a specific participation. Similar situations are not only in the European Investment Bank, which you have now asked about, but also in the IMF, the Nordic Investment Bank and the ESM, for example. These financial instruments shall be included in a specific share or share capital corresponding to the size of the own contribution. In essence, the situation changes that your asset, which may have been in the reserve or on the current account, is actually the size of your participation in a particular firm. It does not affect your position either positively or negatively. The situation would change if such an organization were to fail. In that case, it is likely that some part of the capital will be written off. There may be another situation: You are doing well because your capital, which you have invested in, will be of benefit to you. Such situations have occurred quite several times in several international organisations. In such situations, the growth that has arisen over time is generally not taken out or distributed between countries, but is further converted into subordinated capital, the holding remains the same, but the so-called capital injection increases. There have been situations like this in the past. In general, these organisations, mainly those I mentioned earlier, have been pleasantly capitalised in this sense. They have also, over time, brought revenue that has not generally been their objective. Neither the IMF nor other such organisations always have the objective of profit. But in answer to the question, yes, it does not affect our balance sheet in this context, in the sense of the state budget. I hope I answered you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U400	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U401	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I have a very specific question. When we discussed the state budget at first reading, and the Minister of Finance was standing on this board, I asked him the same question. Indeed, how does he explain that the labour costs of the Tax and Customs Board will be reduced by nearly 1% if these costs increase in other internal security agencies, all at a time when tax collection is a difficult issue? We know that as a result of tobacco and alcohol smuggling, the country will lose nearly EUR 70 million, etc. He promised to clarify it because he was surprised by the information at first reading. Did he talk about this in the Commission? This rate of 0.74% of salary expenditure is still up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U402	Thank you. We did not have an answer to a specific question and, let us be honest, such a question was not on the agenda either. I understand you have not received a written reply from the Minister so far. It is certainly necessary to clarify why no written reply has been received. If you look at the state budget for next year, we will see that in this sense the budget will be a good one next year, that it is really possible, I would even say, to exponentially increase cash flow in the public sector in terms of labour and wage costs, but also in terms of investments. I've just looked at the figures relating to the Tax and Customs Board, but also to internal security. In the case of salary, EUR 8.4 million is coming into internal security, which the Minister can put in place according to his understanding. The Minister of Finance has a similar situation in the context of the Ministry of Finance. True, it is certainly unthinkable to provide operational information on a single item in a 300-page budget. I don't think you're expecting that. However, this issue should certainly be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U403	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U404	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure there's a lot of people watching the budget reading. I think they would like to ask you why the Estonian power union has become so arrogant that none of our suggestions for improvement have been taken into account in substance. This means that there is only the right opinion of the Reform Party and the IRL; the opposition's opinion is wrong, although the support of opposition parties is now much greater than the support of the coalition. The situation has actually changed. Do you realize that? Power communication with the public has still become a naked monologue. This is also said in today's statement by the social figures. Please tell me how far we're going with this contrast! What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U405	Thank you, my good colleague. How should I answer you? You're tagging. I don't have words to be honest with you. All your rhetoric, not only today, but also in earlier times, is borne by anger and arrogance, I'd say. You've always been against everyone and everything. I don't mean you personally, just like you probably didn't mean me personally. I mean your party. You've always been against everyone and everything. You've been bigger in your words than in your actions. Why do I think that? I do not just want to talk, I try to give examples. Last year the 2012 state budget was processed here. Compared to this year, there are big differences. The 2012 state budget, which we handled last year, was a good state budget and still is. The state budget we are currently dealing with is even better. Why? This year, pensions rose 4.4%, and next year they will rise 5%. This year, it was not possible to give additional money to the public sector for wage increases. Now we can do that. Last year, we were unable to increase social benefits to this extent. Now we can. Why do I give you this example? Last year the budget for the second reading lasted four hours. This year, you want to do it 24 hours in a row. My question is: what has changed since last year? The 2013 budget is a much stronger budget than it was last year. My answer to you is this: it seems to me that your questions are not motivated by concern that Estonian society needs to be improved, but pragmatically from the fact that next year there will be elections and you want to show yourself somehow. What and how, unfortunately, I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U406	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U407	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In breach of the procedure, the Finance Committee did not require the Centre Party to submit a draft law on progressive income tax and corporate tax to its proposed amendments. These improvements are currently being dealt with in general terms. Please tell me the following as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If any of these proposals are to be approved, how can new tax laws be adopted in the days remaining until the end of the year, new tax procedures and new forms of declaration be developed? I would stress that the proposals to increase the costs of the Centre Party amount to EUR 190 million. How can these laws be adopted, enforced and the tax procedures and declarations developed in the days remaining until the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U408	Thank you, good Aivar, old fighter! With a spirited state like this, you also asked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And you asked me right! There's no way. This is not possible because there are no such drafts in the proceedings under which the Centre Party envisages its own sources of cover. That is why it is not possible to vote on these amendments. Good Eiki Nestor said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that a member of the Riigikogu has the right to make any amendment. He was right about that. The right is to make any amendment; the question is whether or not it will be supported. These amendments are contrary to the basic law of the state budget. This statement may seem to be hiding behind this law. But I would point out that we did not hide, we did not withdraw half of the amendments, although we would have had half the amendments here today. Once again, if we went this way so that some of these amendments could be supported today, there would probably be two options: whether the second reading should be interrupted or whether we should vote on such an amendment at third reading. There's just no alternative. I would like to emphasise once again that several amendments do not have a legal basis for entry into force. No, it's not! I hope, Aivar, I answered you with more or less certainty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U409	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U410	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Commission. I had time to thoroughly examine this big document, the draft state budget submitted to second reading. Unfortunately, there was nothing in this document and your presentation that could be said in response to the disabled. Perhaps the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs could say something good to people with disabilities? There are 120,000 of them in our country now. These include one in ten people in Estonia. If they were all right and if we heard something good for them when we discussed the draft budget for 2013 in this Chamber for the second time, then perhaps there would be no gatherings like yesterday in Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U411	Thank you. This is a good question, and I will try to answer you as much as I can and know. I'll give you some statistics. In 2012, i.e. this year, 59.96 million euros have been earmarked for disability benefits. In 2013, grants amount to EUR 65,78 million. Growth compared to this year is 5,82 million euros, or 9,71%. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a very decent rise. What is certainly interesting is that, by looking at the implementation of the 2012 budget within nine months, we can say that this year is already ending with a surplus of around EUR 3.5 million. I do not know whether this information should indicate that it is positive or negative, but it certainly shows that the growth rate of the number of beneficiaries is always based on some estimates that have been shown to be lower than planned. In summary, it can be said that people with disabilities are meant for people with disabilities. The amount of subsidies will increase by nearly 10% next year, namely by 9.71%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U412	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U413	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I will say so much in the form of a reply that for the good social democrats and their voters only the only comfort is that you will take the hat off in front of them, because you did not support any of their proposals, even though they were supposedly better than ours. I'm gonna ask you about another thing. I really like the word "overhead." On 7 December, your party and the Reform Party launched a draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act in order to comply with the promise given to doctors. At that time, the draft budget was already in Riigikogu proceedings. Doesn't it seem to you that this happened over and over and over, and is this a practice promised to government departments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U414	Thank you. That's a good question. Certainly, the state budget must not be adopted if the draft, which relates to the state budget, has not been adopted on the same day, conditionally speaking, on the same day. If we do not reflect everything on the expenditure side of the state budget, we can at least say that we are in surplus, but we must always reflect revenue. I am absolutely certain that the state budget must not be passed as a law, I emphasise, adopted unless the law has adopted drafts relating to this state budget. As you yourself mentioned, it is in the procedure of the draft. If it should happen that this draft is not adopted as a law, then we must definitely take time off or speed up the procedure for some other draft. However, you cannot create a situation where things are, as you said, inside out. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U415	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U416	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! You have praised this as a good budget on several occasions, because next year the salaries of public sector employees will rise over long years, as will the pension. But let's be honest. How much will the real wage rise next year and how much will the real pension rise next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U417	Good colleague! These statistics are all available in these long tables. I have a counter-question: have you not reviewed all the tables? Instead of looking at all these figures and bringing out one figure in the explanatory memorandum, I say to you, good colleague, to save both you and me time: look at what the figures are. But I can tell you a little bit more about pensions. Pensions are growing faster than the cost of living. I'm looking at the Treasury Department projections. They say that consumer prices will rise by 3.9% in 2012 and 3.5% in 2013. In the coming years, the rise in consumer prices will stabilise at 2.8%. We are talking about consumer prices. At the same time, the pension rose by 4.4% in 2012. If we adopt this budget, the pension will rise by 5% in 2013. This shows that pensions are now growing faster than the cost of living. Good colleague, I hope I've answered you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U418	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U419	I'm very calm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U420	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, dear waitress, let's take it easy. Easy. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U421	I, too, intend to dig into a very specific number. During the first reading, I asked the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs in Question Time why the budget would reduce the amount of money for the purchase of ambulance services. The Minister of Finance did not know this, but the Minister of Social Affairs confirmed that it will not be reduced to come up with an amendment. He said that the amount for the purchase of ambulance services would certainly be increased by EUR 1749098. It's in the verbatim. I am now withdrawing the amendment and reading here that the amounts for the purchase of ambulance services will be increased by EUR 569105. The Minister of Social Affairs reduced his promise by 1.1 million. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U422	Good colleague! I don't know what memos you're reading there, but I'm trying to give you the answer I think is right. Let's start with what the ambulance service is. For all people who do not know this, an ambulance is defined in the Health Services Organisation Act as an outpatient healthcare service for the initial diagnosis and treatment of life-threatening illness, injury or poisoning and, if necessary, for the transport of the person in need to the hospital. In the 2012 budget, EUR 26.84 million has been allocated to the ambulance service. The 2013 budget states that EUR 28,73 million will be allocated to the ambulance service. Growth is due to the resources allocated to the increase in the salaries of ambulance workers. I can't tell you where you took these numbers, but at least on the basis of the information I have, you could say that the slope is considerably higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U423	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U424	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! First of all, I cannot agree with your desire to lose a free school lunch in comprehensive school and to replace it with social support. But it is my question that concerns the financial side of the budget. You are a supporter of conservative monetary policy. We certainly have different views on what income tax could be like. But what do you think of the Socialist amendment that would reduce the budget deficit and increase the national reserves by EUR 200 million? How does it feel to you in a situation where the budget is in deficit and the central government reserves are about three times smaller than this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U425	Thank you, good Rannar! It was a trick question. What do I mean by that? In your question, you did not explain at all how you actually foresee a reduction in the deficit of the state budget. You didn't bring it up in the question. You just asked me how it felt to reduce the deficit in the state budget. Of course, all activities that are reasonable and reduce the deficit of the state budget or do not increase the deficit of the state budget are always welcome. Now we have to negotiate what you meant by your question. You meant it (you also expressed it in the amendment) that next year Eesti Energia could not be given up to 200 million euros worth of financial resources. I would point out that up to EUR 200 million, because it is not yet very clear whether this amount is, for example, 100 or 150 million, but the upper limit is fixed at EUR 200 million. A good colleague, why has Eesti Energia, a state-owned company, applied for such sums from MKM? On the basis of the information received, I have realised that next year a new power plant will be built in Narva, the estimated cost of this investment is EUR 638 million and the deadline for completion of the power plant will be in 2016. The renewal of the distribution network in 2011-2015 will require investment of EUR 449 million. In addition, investments in the oil industry will come. If we look at the financial resources that are potentially being diverted to Eesti Energia in 2013, we can say that this is not a cost side. Thanks to these funds, Eesti Energia will be able to assume additional financial obligations, taking into account the ratio between equity and loan capital. What is it going to be, whether EUR 100, EUR 150 or EUR 200 million, is still unclear, but the upper limit is fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U426	Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U427	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I would like to begin by congratulating the two principles that you have emphasised: the deficit must be reduced and those amendments which do not have a source of cover cannot be accepted. There is, however, one proposal that I and my colleague Lukas have put forward, which does not increase any costs and reduces the deficit. This concerns a one-third reduction in the state budget funding for political parties, EUR 1.8 million for the circa. The Chancellor of Justice, the National Audit Office and the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu have also made a contribution in this direction. What was the course of this debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and why did you not support this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U428	Thank you. Good question. I must, of course, say that this debate could certainly have been even more powerful in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This was the only amendment that was not present in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. All other proposals were different. Although Mr Vakra's amendment was not discussed by the author, Lembit Kaljuvee, who explained the proposal and gave him the opportunity to ask. But that's it. Let us now clarify this amendment of yours. The Committee on Finance did not support this proposal. The members of the Monetary Commission have found that the topic of funding political parties is currently under discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I understand that there are people from each group in this group. They are struggling with a variety of amendments and trying to reach an agreement on the future financing of political parties. The majority of the Committee on Monetary Affairs considered that there was no point in making decisions in haste. And on what basis do we decide on the amount of the reduction? Why should it be reduced by a third, perhaps by a reduction of 50% or 25%? Maybe we should come up with a different approach. Such changes and activities should be based on some kind of analysis. As it is known that such a working group is currently working in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs found that, if there is a position, it can always come up with a separate draft and make changes, no matter what changes this working group envisages.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U429	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U430	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! In the heated responses, there were complaints about our amendments as well as a different understanding of tax policy. It has to be said that our perceptions are sometimes different. We would never have made such a bill that navigation charges would rise nearly six times, so in a few years, no ship will come to our ports again. That's my problem. Why has the budget included revenue for which there is no law yet? The draft Maritime Safety Act takes account of the fact that the six-fold increase in these taxes will generate EUR 10 million in revenue. But now the Ministry has made a change. They have found that this draft law is not very good and has reduced some amounts there, to a total of perhaps EUR 2.5 million. How, then, does the budget come together?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U431	Thank you. There were two issues: firstly, how to deal with this budget as such, given the draft law on maritime safety, secondly, whether or not there should be a tax increase here at all. I thought there were two such questions coming through here. I'm trying to answer them. The entry into force of the draft Maritime Safety Act will lead to a real increase in the fees for ships travelling to a single port. This negative impact will be mitigated by encouraging re-visit. On the basis of this draft, tankers and various cargo ships will be subject to an increase in the cost of waterway services compared to lighthouse and navigation fees. At the same time, there is no or no significant increase in prices for ships and cruise ships engaged on regular voyages. I'm gonna talk a little bit about cruise ships, and I'm gonna bring out the passenger ship Star, which I have here. In the case of the current scheme, it will pay approximately EUR 765000 per year for 365 trips, and in the case of the new scheme provided for in the draft, it will pay EUR 695000 per waterway charge. As you can see, here too, there is a reduction in fees. But that's it. The second part of the question was how to deal with the state budget if the law on maritime safety has not been adopted. Good colleague, if the law on maritime safety is not passed before the law on the state budget or if it comes into force at different times, then, I think, it is an evil herd. I'll give you an example. The state budget will be adopted, it should enter into force on 1 January, the Maritime Safety Act will not be adopted by 1 January for any reason, but it should enter into force on 1 January. This situation cannot arise because in this case there is no source of cost coverage. It would be somewhat the same as the Centre Party's amendments, just the difference between the fact that we have a draft to deal with, and I hope that the majority in the Chamber will support these drafts today. I would remind you that last year it was a series of cluster medicines. This time we have come to a situation where every draft is being dealt with by a committee in the field where real specialists work. The draft law on maritime safety is still being dealt with by the Committee on Economic Affairs and by the Social Affairs Committee on Social Taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U432	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U433	Thank you. Dear waitress, One question is philosophical, the other is specific, like order and duty. Browsing budget section 13 "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs" I was happy to discover that we were going to serve in the development of democracy. It says EUR 900000. All sorts of interesting thoughts began to arise. It turned out, however, that I was wrong because of my bad eyesight. Looking at the glasses, I figured out a minus in front of it. There were a number of questions. I wonder where the cheap democracy we are developing with so little money is located and where it is being developed specifically, either in Estonia or directly in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or abroad. What will be done with the money taken from the pocket of the Estonian taxpayer? Developing democracy - what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U434	Thank you, my good colleague. There are various expenditure lines in the budget. For some lines, legislative power gives a very specific vision, task and guideline to the executive power how it must behave. In the case of some lines, he gives a vision where specific money could go, but does not give a very clear guideline on what exactly needs to be done. This example is the case where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the opportunity to take its own decisions on what and how to do with this money, but it has been given clear guidance on what it should do with it. In other words, if he wanted to use this money, for example, to raise the pay of diplomats, he would not have the chance. This would not fall under this measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U435	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U436	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I believe that you are aware that some of the traps and risks to vulnerable families have been included in the 2013 state budget that we are dealing with today. I'll give you an example. Need-based child benefit and student allowance or education allowance. If there are two parents and three children in the family, one student and two students in the school, according to the laws to be dealt with, the student's allowance will be included in the family's income and in fact this family will not have the opportunity to receive child support based on needs. The opposition's proposals on the draft budget were not taken into account. Is there any hope that proposals for other drafts could be considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U437	Thank you. Of course, they could be an option. Once again, every discussion is welcome. If in the course of this discussion you find it, I will find it, and I will find the majority of the hall that it is possible to find sources of additional support, then, of course, I am in favour of it with two hands. To this extent, I would point out that the aim of the government union is to increase the necessity of the family support system rather than to extend the non-discipline. We have emphasised this and will continue to emphasise it in the future. In this context, a number of needs-based child benefits have been introduced in 2013. In 2013, by the way, the total amount of family allowances is 103.9 million euros, with an increase of 4.9 million euros. Here too, you can see real money coming up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U438	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U439	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleague Sven! I want to ask you about necessity. Haven't you been over-subscribing the budget? Yesterday we discussed child benefit, which means an additional EUR 9 per six children and an additional 59 cents. In order to receive this allowance, the family must prove their insolvency every quarter; they must go to the municipality or social welfare department to prove it, which is certainly far from some villages. Bus tickets can cost more than EUR 9 59 cents. Haven't you been over-indulging in this necessity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U440	Thank you, good Esther! I don't think I've oversold it. This is where the discussion is again. If we look at the grants granted by the Estonian state to those in need through the state budget, starting with child support and ending with, for example, education grants, there is always one question here. I do not think that the purpose of the study grants is to cover all the costs of higher education studies, although one amendment provided for it. The same is true of other subsidies. Over time, there have been dozens of grants in Estonian society, and we will recall the grant of the pack. Most of them are good, they are undisputed good subsidies. But we always have to see what our chances are. I'll come back to that one more time. I think the possibility is not that we are simply taking an additional EUR 100 million from somewhere. This "somewhere" means we're increasing the deficit. I don't think that's right. Therefore, we must make decisions within the limits of the possibilities that we have. I completely sincerely believe that, under the conditions of limited resources, neither you nor I would need student support if we went to study. All right, we're pretty old now, but why not go to school? Sorry, I'm old, you're not! I'm so sorry! I want to say that necessity still gives a clear signal that this money should go to the people who really need it. Look at the interesting situation. If there is a specific amount of money, some kind of financial resources, then if we make the system more needs-based and at the same time keep that amount the same (not to mention if this amount may even increase), it will give someone more money from the available funds. I think the movement in that direction is correct. But once again, this is my understanding and not only my understanding, but also the understanding of the government union. It can be criticised and discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U441	Please, Mr Velman, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U442	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! In your speech, you said that, before the second reading of the draft budget, there were some ministers on the Commission who gave explanations by line in their field. Since I'm not a member of your committee, I just want to ask you how this is going with you. Do ministers just come and report to you, and you don't even debate what's going on? For example, pension increases of 5%. I'm not saying it's quite humiliating, but clearly it doesn't cover the costs that old people have accumulated over time. How do you have this debate in the Commission? Will you simply take as gold what the ministers are going to eat for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U443	Thank you, good Vladimir! I don't know where to start. You threw the ball up with a specific question about how these things work in the Commission, and at the same time you stated in your logic that the 5% pension increase is too small and that is unfair. But you came back to the subject that you really wanted to ask me about. So let's just agree that I'm talking about the Commission's matters that you asked about, and if anyone comes up with a question about that 5%, we'll talk about it separately. It is interesting to say that I do not think I am talking a lie right now, that, if ministers have gone to the Commission, as surprising as it may be, the biggest questioners have been members of coalition parties. Why is that, I don't know. But at least that's how it seems to me that the biggest questioners are from there. Plus, of course, there's Eiki Nestor, who always wants to clear up a few things. As regards the question of whether sectoral ministers should go to the Commission, I think you should. The Committee on Finance is the committee that gives the large hall an indication of whether to support the budget. In previous years, ministers who have been asked by the opposition to invite the chairman of the committee have been before the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Last year, after the Riigikogu elections, I took the view that all ministers could go to the committee. Whether they have questions or not, it does not matter, but let them go through the Commission. They will go to the committee in the field anyway, so let them also come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Last year went well, and all ministers went to the Commission between first and second readings or between second and third readings. This time we are in a situation where, by the time of second reading, all ministers have been to the Commission. Between second and third readings, there is no longer a need to listen to separate sectoral ministers. I think it's good practice and good tone. This gives members of the Riigikogu, mainly members of the Finance Committee, more opportunities to ask questions; they do not have to limit themselves to two questions, as usual in this Chamber. I believe that this will continue, and I hope that more questions will also come from the opposition in the coming years. I noticed that, for some reason, the members of the coalition were always present on the Commission, but half the time there were no members of the opposition, or there were considerably fewer of them than the members of the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U444	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U445	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Although the current discussion is tempting to ask about specific figures and the naming of mediocre and inadequate things, I will continue our discussions on budgetary anatomy that have just been completed. Please explain how the budget can change and develop in the first place. As I understand it, the most influential underlying documents of the budget are last year's budget and coalition agreement. If, in real life, the crisis in which we would very much like to live, according to the coalition men, is very different from the forecast, is there a new coalition agreement that is the basis of the budget being made, or is the old spirit being allowed to continue, or if the coalition agreement is really being revised, can you say, has there been major changes from this point of view, or has only changed the timetable?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U446	Good Aadu, thank you! You get so far from the Committee on Monetary Affairs with your questions. But it's okay, I'm trying to answer. You have the right approach in the context that, when putting together the state budget, the government union basically bases itself on previous agreements made by previous governments. As you know, in fact, a very high percentage of spending in the state budget is 'targeted' and 'closed'. In addition, as you mentioned, good Aadu, a coalition agreement, which is the basis of a specific coalition document, is really the basis for the government union, which gives an overview of where it wants to go in four years, why it wants to get there and at what pace and at what price. This document is always public; it is not such a document which is held inside two or three or four or any of the coalition partners. Everyone will always be able to criticise it if necessary, to make proposals on it. However, it must be taken into account that those who have made the coalition and put in place a vision that it would like to reach within four years must also take responsibility for whether it uses subsidies to get there, deals with the development of the state, invests, balances the state budget or takes into account any criteria. It will then be possible to assess whether or not he was carrying out the tasks assigned to him. Since it is known that compromises are always needed in the coalition, the coalition agreement is, in fact, the final result of the compromises. The best example is that the Centre Party has been in the coalition in the country over time, but there has not been any progressive income tax in Estonia. Consequently, a compromise has been reached and compliance with this electoral promise has been a little further.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U447	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U448	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said a while ago that you did not support the Socialist proposal to increase child benefits, because a child growing in your family does not need the same support as a child growing in a poor family. Perhaps a child growing in poverty needs EUR 9 more. At the same time, you said that the coalition would reduce the tax rate by 1% in 2015, leaving more money to all people. You did not say well that about EUR 2 per month would be left to the recipients of the minimum wage, EUR 5 to 6 for teachers and EUR 40 for you. This is likely then to be necessary, even though it does not smell of necessity. This is currently costing the state budget some 60 million euros, probably more in 2015. Quoting your answer to Esther Tukukolek: would it not be wise to miss out on this stupid reform and to give somebody who really needs some more money from the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U449	Thank you, my good colleague. To be exact, I'll bring out both percentages. Very correct observation that the income tax rate will decrease by 1% in 2015. This means to the state that the 60 million euros of the euro are once again a very correct observation of the money that will remain in the hands of the natural persons of Estonia. This money will be left to the people, and the country will, of course, receive less money. In addition to this 60 million, there is another figure of €15 million. That's the money that's left to legal persons. This, too, must be emphasised, even in the interests of the verbatim. The changes that the Social Democrats have put on the table provide that if the tax changes that you have foreseen were to pass, the state would receive nearly EUR 100 million. I think the exact amount was just over 97 million. Let's say it's 100 million euros. On the one hand, it is positive when the country comes to EUR 100 million. On the other hand, who's it coming from? Good colleague, you have brought out the doctors. Calculate how much money the state will receive from the doctors due to your amendment. On the one hand, you say you should raise the percentage, on the other hand, you say something else. Once again, there are different concepts. If you ask my opinion, my opinion has been rather that more environmental charges and excise duties should be increased and consumption more taxed. But more money should be left to the person, for he knows better what to do with his money. There's no point pulling everything together on the middle floor and then sharing it with everyone. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U450	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U451	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Why did you withdraw from your promise to compensate all local authorities for the loss of income due to the exemption of the land under home? Today, it is known that the incoming income tax share will not cover this tax hole for many local governments. Local authorities are now forced to raise farmland and land tax to 2.5% and farmers are very angry. Why did you withdraw from that promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U452	Thank you, my good colleague. We haven't retreated. Why do you ask that? When the land tax exemption was accepted, it was agreed that, although it is a tax which the State should not directly compensate for, but given the fact that the income from the land tax is very important for local authorities, the State would commit itself and compensate for it. This is also the case with a draft which will increase the income tax share from 11.4% to 11.57% next year and will increase by 0.03% a year later. Why are you crazing people by saying you're not being compensated?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U453	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U454	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Your answers are more direct and immediate than otherwise. I hope the answer to my question is the same. Last week it became clear that 4 million euros have been left to the Riigikogu to decide on the reserve of the Government of the Republic. It's called roofing money. I don't know who's done it. At the same time, EUR 3.6 million would be needed to meet the wage promises made to ambulance workers and residents. We use this roof money for residents and ambulance workers, and the problem has been solved, and the unemployment benefit will not be reduced. How do you look at this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U455	Thank you, my good colleague. The government reserve is intended for various costs. As a general rule, these costs are exceptional and unforeseen. The total cost of the 2012 reserve amounted to EUR 25,27 million. In the next year, 2013 the planned volume will be 18.36 million, much smaller than in the previous year, 7 million in the middle. I find it very difficult to provide clear guidelines on what the government should do with the money in reserve. I don't even think it's right. Today it is known that, for example, the Ministry of the Interior has planned to pay more than EUR 2 million for the non-eligible VAT related to the helicopter. I have heard that there is also money involved in the rise in judges' salaries, but it is still a government reserve. It's a government reserve!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U456	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U457	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Let us also talk clearly about the money needed for the construction of the new ERM building. There have been estimates that this will cost EUR 87.5 million, while there will be only one line in the state budget for next year, where there will be EUR 1.5 million under the Ministry of Culture; the rest of the money will not appear in the budget for next year. Aivar Sõerd spoke in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who said that this EUR one and a half million was not meant to invest in a new building, although this is precisely the case in the explanatory memorandum, but is meant to be something else, such as renovating old buildings. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance also said that the Minister of Culture could use this money on other cultural objects if necessary. This is where the following questions arise. Where does the money come from to build the ERM? What money is this one-and-a-half million euro that the Centre Party has proposed that this money be invested in youth objects?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U458	Thank you. Good question. Let's be more specific. When I was talking about the construction of the ERM house, I also pointed out that funding was planned through cultural capital. Now there is another question, which you have also emphasised: given that ERM funding cannot be a million or a half, which is in the Ministry of Culture's budget, what is this money? I, too, have made it clear, wanted to know exactly what the money is, but it is very difficult to vote in favour of the budget. I have clarified and learned that this money, which is on the investment line of the Ministry of Culture, is not the so-called concrete money, the money for the construction of ERM, but is the so-called content money, i.e. the preparation of various permanent exhibitions next year. These activities have been going on for two years. The preparation of permanent exhibitions is not considered eligible according to the example of cultural capital. In fact, you could say that if we now re-divided the resources that are on this line of ERM and on which you have proposed to use them for some other purpose, we could say that there will be a house, but there will be no furnishings. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U459	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U460	Thank you, Mr President. I was hoping to ask you all sorts of other questions, but unfortunately I have to be consistent and come back to the previous question. Please recapture the amount of money you had written down in order to provide emergency services! On page 24 of the draft second reading, I will look up a line entitled "Supporting the Rapid Assistance Service" and read here an amount of EUR 27279027. The amount you read to me was quite different. Why was it different? Where did you get that money? Why is it different from the amount shown in the budget? And where did a million euros go from the ambulance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U461	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U462	It's not gone anywhere, believe me. Ambulance services were financed this year and will also be financed next year. Next year they will be financed more than this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U463	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I am asking about wages and, more generally, about the growth of the payroll. The idea of a government coalition is that, in all ministries, the wage fund will increase by an average of 4.4%, regardless of what the current level of salaries of ministries is really like. There are several ministries where wage levels are lagging behind other ministries. It would take a bigger or faster increase than any other ministry. I mean, for example, the Ministry of Culture. Much is said about doctors leaving abroad. This is exactly the same problem in the field of culture, where musicians from several collectives have gone abroad to work, because it is no longer worth taking the instrument for the salary paid in Estonia. What is your position, could there have been any difference between ministries, rather than giving everyone the same rod 4.4%?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U464	Thank you, my good colleague. I would rather say that there has been a major mental change in the budgetary procedure in the context of next year. What do I mean by that? On the one hand, ministries have been given 4,4% of the money, but on the other hand, managers have been given the opportunity to make changes within this payroll, given the different levels of criticality of jobs. In fact, some employees in the public sector may not receive a wage increase of 4.4%, but maybe their wages will rise less, in some others maybe more. This is really the right approach to give drivers such an opportunity. Ministers are expected to sub-delegate this option. I understand that, for example, the Minister of Education gives school leaders the opportunity to differentiate wage increases, and more is paid to better teachers. Let me remind you, it's been more like a plan or a command economy before. I think it's a good thing that there's been a chance. I have also realised that quite a number of ministers have done a commendable job in reforming internal structures. This has been done by the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Interior. It provides additional financial resources. There are signals that, in several ministries and their administration, wages are rising significantly by more than 4.4%. But 4,4% is the base that the state guarantees.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U465	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U466	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. There was a question on this issue above, and we too read from the budget that somehow the wage costs of the Tax and Customs Board have been reduced. Enriko Aav, former Director General of the Tax and Customs Board, has said that the EUR 1 put in the Tax and Customs Board will bring back EUR 10. On this basis, we have proposed an amendment to allocate EUR 5 million to the Tax and Customs Board, which, according to this theory, would give back 50 million. There would not be a problem with the source of cover here, but we would receive EUR 45 million in net revenue. But my question is: why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs not support this good proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U467	Thank you, my good colleague. In 2012, the Tax and Customs Board's operational and operational costs are set at EUR 38,4 million, and the same amount of money will be available in 2013. In real life, however, this amount is now divided between a much smaller number of workers. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board has been very effective over the past year. They have been in the Committee on Monetary Affairs to talk about this separately, and a very good colleague, Kalev, has also been there. They have made significant structural changes in territorial terms, which have helped them to get closer to the client, i.e. to the person living in Estonia, and to sell themselves (in a good way) more professionally. This has been particularly important in the past, and there is a possible tax hole. According to the calculations made by the Tax and Customs Board, this has decreased over the years. It's big, but it's reduced. In 2011, the Tax and Customs Board calculated that the tax gap was EUR 422 million, or 2.6% of GDP. A year earlier, it was EUR 481 million. There is a positive difference of nearly EUR 60 million. It can be said that the Tax and Customs Board is working effectively, that it has had a clear aim in front of its eyes, and that it has done a decent job in reducing the tax gap. He has made proposals in the fuel business and in a number of other areas to make various changes to the law, which we have also listened to. I think the work they do is grateful. Given the visions that the Tax and Customs Board has presented to the decision-makers, including you, it can be said that this work is sufficient to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U468	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U469	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I am not talking about the sources of cover right now, but I still want to ask you about one of the proposals that came from our group. In particular, we wanted to increase the funding of the office of the Gender Commissioner, because from 2008 onwards, he has had a lot of work added to him and additional money was promised in the same year. But now it turns out that for the fifth year, the Riigikogu is cheating on him. When I asked Jürgen Ligi, he said in this Chamber that the Commissioner did not work well enough and did not deserve to be trusted. Does the Commission also consider that there is a problem that we share unprotected promises? Have you tried to find funding for the Commissioner's office? The promised Norwegian money will somehow be late and it may not be until next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U470	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U471	Thank you, my good colleague. Never make promises without cover! The ruling coalition has also not made any unscathed promises. I will tell you specifically: in 2013, the office of the Gender Commissioner will have a staff and management cost of EUR 62351. The budget will increase by more than EUR 2500. In addition, the so-called Norwegian funds planned for the next three years are coming. That amount shall be EUR 700000. The use of these funds is scheduled to start in 2013. That's the information that exists right now. However, EUR 62351 is available at the Registry of the Gender Commissioner. If you ask why Norway is giving this money, you can say that this is a priority area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U472	Dear waitress, I have a philosophical question for you. Later on, I also have a very specific question, but let's start with philosophical. The explanatory memorandum to the draft budget has repeatedly emphasised that the tax burden will fall to 32.6% next year, if I am not mistaken, which is the lowest in the last five years and one of the lowest in the European Union, as far as I know we will be around 20. Can you explain why this is good? After all, we are in a situation where, even in order to raise the wages of doctors, the government must reduce unemployment benefits, which I think is a very shameful decision. We know that the whole public sector is underfunded in Estonia at all, whether we talk about higher education or the police, that is true. What is good about bringing the tax burden down so much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U473	Good colleague! Looks like we have different ideas about things. I understand that your question is due to the fact that you think that we could forcefully increase labour taxes. Forced to increase, raise 10%, 15% or 20%. You think we should take extra money from the people of Estonia and then re-distribute it. This is the vision you're taking now, if you ask me that. Once again, I do not share that view. I don't think that's the way we should go. It seems that Europe as a whole is currently on the road to reducing tax rates.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U474	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U475	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Sven! I really like your thorough answers. But one of the questions put by my colleague, Tarmo Tamm, was left unanswered. I will take this opportunity to ask this question more precisely. In the agricultural sector, the agricultural land tax will be increased to 2.5% as a result of a reduction in domestic costs. You have certainly calculated how much more money will have to be paid from farmers' pockets, for example, per year or for several years. After all, your party is now also responsible for the agricultural sector. I'd love to hear that number.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U476	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U477	Good colleague! The Minister of Agriculture has done a lot of work. By that I mean fighting for my field. In 2013 it fought for the payment of transitional public subsidies, the so-called "top-up', amounting to EUR 24,3 million. That's a lot of money. I think the Minister of Agriculture has worked on behalf of Estonian farmers, not only by going somewhere, but also by making it clear to the government that this money is needed by farmers. Any estimates of increases or reductions will certainly be the subject of discussion in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U478	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I think I have a traditional question and a rather short one. You know that the Ida-Viru County Action Plan 2010-2014 was approved in 2010. But for the second time, in this year's budget and also in the draft budget for the coming year, there are hardly any lines of this national plan, either in general or sectoral terms. Was this subject discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U479	Thank you. There was no separate discussion in the Commission on this issue. I would point out that the Commission discussed amendments to the 2013 state budget at its last meetings. Most of the questions that have been heard here today have touched on the amendments. I am very sorry, Eldar, that you did not find a way to make such an amendment. Did you? Very good. Got it. After all, there were 100 amendments in total and they were also under discussion. It may have been either the inadequacy of the sources of cover or the fact that the proposal was contrary to the basic law of the state budget. Depends on the specific nature of the amendment, but there may have been some of these reasons. These amendments, which were on the Commission's table, were, of course, discussed, not over or around them. It can be said, however, that if the sources of cover were not suitable, it was not possible to allocate money to a particular project or item either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U480	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U481	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I ask you again because I didn't get an answer to the first question. Before you spoke of the 1% reduction in income tax that the coalition has intended to do. We know that, on average, the teacher will have an increase of EUR 5 to 6 - for example, for you and for me, for 40 euros. I understand that this EUR 5 to 6 is very need-based, and the teacher really needs this extra money. But I don't quite understand why you need the EUR 40 when you said in a big way earlier that you didn't need an extra EUR 9 child support. Could you explain to us the connection between this reform and your 'need-to-know' policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U482	Thank you. I don't think there's any reason to use the context of "you and us." I don't think this is the right direction. We need to rely on people to keep as much money as possible in their hands. It's the vision we're supposed to have. I think we're on the right track. Looking at what is happening in Europe and mainly those countries where the Social Democrats are in power, including France, I see what is happening there, especially in tax policy. I am not in favour of such a policy. I don't think this is the right policy. But once again I say that there is really no right and wrong policy, there is a policy that is in favour and which is recognised by most to be right, at least at that moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U483	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U484	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! You mentioned, in answer to the question, that the Government of the Republic's budget for the following year will decrease compared to this year, but this reserve is undoubtedly necessary and there will be a great deal of substantial expenditure. Can you confirm that the Committee on Monetary Affairs, during the budgetary procedure, will not be proposed, for example, to increase certain funds from the Government's reserve to the investment line? If someone brings this proposal to the table in the Commission, will you, at least, who here a moment ago claimed that this reserve was extremely necessary, vote against this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U485	No, I really cannot confirm that no one is making such a proposal. How can I confirm that Mr Tamm, for example, does not make such a proposal? How could I take this responsibility on my shoulders? I certainly cannot assure you that there will be no such proposals. The second question is whether or not these proposals will be approved. These proposals must be looked at. In this case, it is certainly not a single person's understanding, but this proposal must be approved by both the majority of the Commission and the majority of the Riigikogu. I certainly cannot assure you that there will be no such proposals. Maybe you'll even make such a proposal and then you'll say, "Mr. Sester, you assured me they wouldn't come."
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U486	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U487	Thank you! Dear waitress, First of all, my appreciation for your long and thorough answers! But now the question. Social workers in local governments have very concernedly mentioned 2013 as the year of evidence collection. There is probably no time left for actual social work and prevention at all, as those in need are likely to have to provide proof soon that proof is not needed. I was very concerned about your position when you spoke about making school food support needs-based in primary schools and vocational schools. This creates a situation where a poor but proud Estonian really has to go to monthly alms, because if he does not do it every month, then it is not necessary to give him support. Is that just your own position or your own idea, or is there really going to be something like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U488	Thank you, my good colleague. I agree that there must be as little bureaucracy as possible, any bureaucracy and, in particular, administrative bureaucracy, both for private individuals and for business. I think there has been a great deal of effort on both sides. In the case of both, I mean both companies and private individuals. It is recalled that dozens of documents have been converted into electronic documents in business. The same is true for private individuals. At the moment, very many operations can be carried out electronically, so that you do not have to physically attend. The whole of Estonia is headed towards doing as little as possible with a paper document. I am quite frankly saying that we must move towards reducing paper business. The second issue here is administrative bureaucracy at all. I agree with you that if there is any way to reduce administrative bureaucracy, it must be done. I will give you an example of losing land tax on the land under the land. It is no longer necessary to submit a statement in order to ensure that this land tax is not actually taken into account. This will take place automatically in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U489	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U490	You know, Chairman, I guess my first question was too polite, and it gave you a chance to philosophe. That's why I'm not being polite now. I'm asking you straight. Do you have a problem with increasing the salaries of ambulance workers and residents and leaving the unemployment allowance intact?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U491	Thank you. That choice has not been on the table so far, at least. We can design dozens of different choices, whether you're willing to do this or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I have so far not taken the opportunity to say that this was not discussed in the Commission. I'm not using it now. But I'm telling you, let's not create a round of questions like this so that you can choose one or the other. There are no such options on the table right now. If they come, we'll have to decide. In my opinion, there is a bill in the Riigikogu proceedings that should increase the money for doctors-residents and ambulance workers. Such a bill should be in Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U492	A procedural question, Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U493	Mr President, I have a procedural remark. The representative of the Commission was not presently precise. We have a proposal to increase the money going to the ambulance and residency and to use the reserve of the Government of the Republic as one of the sources of cover. The chairman of the committee did not behave correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U494	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U495	Can I comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U496	No, you can't comment on that. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U497	Thank you. A representative of the good Commission. I'll go on from here. In response to Neeme Big, you increased the cost of an ambulance by 1.1 million euros. When we look at the budget for the Ministry of Social Affairs' area of administration, we have it on page 12, I do not know where you have it, it says here that the amendment will add EUR 569105. You told Neeme the Great that EUR 28.73 million was a specified amount, but actually that amount is 27.279 million. The budget still lacks EUR 1.1 million, which should be earmarked for ambulance workers and which has been promised by our esteemed Minister for Social Affairs. Where's the money? It's not in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U498	Thank you. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the State Budget Act is one of those few laws, not the only law on which amendments can be made not only at second reading but also at third reading. We, ladies and gentlemen, still have several weeks to propose amendments that give us the opportunity to channel money to finance both ambulance services and a number of other areas that are needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U499	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U500	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! In recent days, the management of the Police and Border Guard Board has been quite acute in the media, and everything is happening in this organisation. Surely there are very different reasons for what has come to the public. But today, speaking with the director-general of the Police and Border Guard Board, it turned out that the money deficit was very high. What is your sense of feeling, shouldn't one injection of money be made there in order to make this facility as effective as the Tax and Customs Board you were talking about earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U501	Thank you. I know that the Minister of the Interior has fought like a lion for increasing his budget, just like all the other ministers. I've seen it in the office. It is clear that only those choices that can be made with limited resources can be made. One side is possible to allocate additional financial instruments in 2013, but I understand that the Minister for the Interior has also done quite a lot of work in the form of internal structural changes, which may not be very soft every time, if you could say so, but are necessary. It is clear that we can only operate with the money that is currently being used. If we were to exponentially increase investments in one sector, there would certainly be a question of what to do. After all, we want pensions to rise, wages to rise, teachers' salaries to rise, social benefits to rise. We have to make these choices. But as far as I can tell, in the area of Homeland Administration, the Minister has really done a powerful job.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U502	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U503	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have this feeling today that I am a native to whom a great white father has come to visit as a missionary and tells me how I have to live and how all my life has been completely wrong. You've actually been a perfectly reasonable man for all the almost five years we've been here together. You're saying all our proposals will lead to a tax increase. Then tell me, please, how is it possible that there will be drafts coming from your side of the hall, which will increase the charges imposed by the state at times by up to 600%, which will be announced only one and a half months or one month! If these are not tax increases and this is a normal working culture, tell me where there is a guarantee that the budget you have made will not lead to exactly the same incidents next year that I will have a port or whatever charge will rise by 600%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U504	Thank you, my good colleague. The budget that will be knocked at the time of adoption has a guarantee in the sense that it is certainly not possible to change the budget in the meantime. At any time during the financial year, you can make various tax increases, but at the moment when you tap the budget, all tax changes are fixed, they are positive or negative. I agree that any change, especially the tax change and, in particular, one that increases the burden on businesses, is not always good. Entrepreneurs are those who produce added value in Estonian society. If some are used to the fact that money comes from somewhere else and only wants to deal with redistribution, then I say that we must certainly direct our actions so that tax increases in business are not so steep. I also call on the Committee on Economic Affairs to negotiate this specific draft, which you have been discussing, in the last few days and weeks that remain. Perhaps it would be possible, for example, to disperse this particular tax change over a period of time so that it does not start after a very short notice period. At the same time, however, I note that any such changes in the context of the budgetary procedure will lead to changes in the budget. For example, in the case of this example of the Maritime Safety Act in particular, if one change were to take effect on 1 April instead of 1 January, it would mean that there would be a reduction in the national budget of EUR 2 to 2,5 million. Consequently, in this case, we must either find a source of cover for it or reduce the cost side, leave no wage increase or investment. That's what we have to decide here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U505	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U506	Dear waitress, Unfortunately, you didn't answer my philosophical question about the benefits of such a low tax burden. You started talking about me wanting to raise the payment of 15 to 20 percent and then redistribute it. I wouldn't think of such a terrible thing in my sleep. But you're the one who wants to split up, take the money away from the unemployed and give it to the doctors. I think this is an extremely cynical redistribution. That's it, but I have a specific question now. In point 10 of the Finance Commission's own proposal for improvement, which discusses the governance of the Ministry of Culture, 2,3 million euros will be reallocated to sub-offices of the Ministry of Culture, which had been on the general line of the Ministry of Culture. It is explained that it adjusts the operating costs of the institutions to the specific needs. Did the Minister of Culture give any explanation? I want to know what's behind this change and what the Ministry of Culture wants to achieve with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U507	Thank you. If you take the same point 10 and look at the details of the operating costs of the institutions, you will see that some very specific institutions have changed the amounts, and you will also see what they are. I will give you an example that there are museums, concert organisations, Võru Institute, etc. There's just the same document on my desk as you. You will be able to see in concrete terms the starting position, the amendment and, consequently, the final position in the draft state budget for 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U508	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U509	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! One of the first questions you were asked today was Kadri Samson's question about kindergartens. These proposals, which were discussed on this issue, were largely my own and were made on the basis of the Ida-Viru County Action Plan. It is strange, on the one hand, if I come to the aid of ministers in order to have a national programme included in the budget, on the other hand, I also need to find a source of cover. I mean, the faction of the Centre Party found the right source of cover. But I still have to ask you a question. I have this question: have the ministers concerned, the Minister for Regional Affairs, the Minister for Education and the Minister for the Interior, examined the proposals that would help to implement this action plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U510	Thank you, good Eldar! Since your question was whether the specific ministers you listed have been familiar with these proposals, I must tell you that I am not really a hiromant. I don't know if one minister or the other has gotten to know one thing or another or the other. There are briefings for this, where you can ask the Minister very specifically whether he has met and how he feels about it. I really don't know if they've met or not. I really hope they've met. Why wouldn't they be? Ministers do their day-to-day work. But I certainly can't say anything concrete for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U511	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U512	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The Unemployment Insurance Fund reserve fund was consolidated with the Treasury. It was grown for a long time before, and both employers and employees knew that unemployment insurance could be significantly reduced, but it was not reduced, the reserve fund was raised and the money was withdrawn. About the same thing happened to the health fund's reserve fund. The Health Insurance Fund set aside another so-called reserve fund, which is the unallocated result. The Health Insurance Fund reserve fund is in the Treasury. For both reserve funds, it was promised that they would be kept, used for nothing, stored nicely, and nothing would happen to them. If the unemployment fund and the health fund reserve fund don't do anything useful between the state's purse, what the hell are they doing there anyway? What are they there for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U513	Thank you, my good colleague. Perhaps you were not in the Chamber of the Riigikogu at the time, but in fact this debate took place more than once. Last year, this topic was discussed quite thoroughly. I'll remind you of that. Last year there was a longer discussion on whether the unemployment fund's reserves should be separate, as they were, or whether they could be consolidated in the context of the state budget. There were quite a number of reasons, since it was much easier, cheaper and more practical to invest these reserves in various securities. Then the risks of fund managers investing, for example, in a specific security in an unemployment fund reserve will disappear and, at the same time, Treasury specialists will also invest in a specific security that could increase risks considerably more than might be feasible. Quite a number of reasons have shown that it is practical to consolidate the reserve of the unemployment fund with the Treasury. There were very clear guidelines and agreements between the management of the unemployment fund and the Minister of Finance. I remember there was a great fear that the unemployment fund would no longer be able to use its financial resources. These fears were removed not only during the debates in this Chamber, but also through the written agreements concluded later on. I would also like to say that if you look at the state budget for next year, you will see that unemployment insurance will fall by 1.2%, from 4.2% to 3%. It's very, very positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U514	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U515	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! It was so nice to hear you talk about reducing administrative bureaucracy and how you're always willing to stand up for it. This is one of those places where at least some members of the opposition will certainly agree with you, although we will otherwise be groping in the dark. I am one of those members of the opposition and I want to congratulate you very much for this. But it seems to me that all this talk is not very coherent when we look at what you do with child benefits. You are strongly increasing the administrative bureaucracy of local governments. The Socialist proposal would not have raised it if there had been an equal increase in child benefits for all. In this regard, I would like to ask you to describe how this increase in administrative bureaucracy is to be calculated. How expensive do you think this is gonna be? How much does the government intend to compensate local authorities for this, from which budget line and at what cost? Can you describe the process?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U516	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U517	Good colleague, thank you! This will certainly require a longer discussion and not just between you and me, but I think it will require the work of professional cost-accountants. I owe you an answer. I guess you didn't expect me to be able to say, at this point in time, what would be the cost of one administrative bureaucratic act? This is not visible anywhere in our budget at the moment, and it would be unthinkable. However, if we approach this whole issue of administrative bureaucracy philosophically, we should actually deal with these calculations. I believe that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for calculating the costs of various administrative bureaucratic activities. I sincerely hope they do. If not just from politicians, but from Estonian society at all, there are signals that there is no point in doing one, another or third administrative bureaucratic action, then I will say that the discussion reveals the truth, let us know. Seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U518	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the rise in taxes or prices. As is well known, the Committee on the Environment is preparing a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act. The Commission's discussion was also invited by economic operators who said that this was the first time that they had been able to express their views on one or the other argument and justification. The Environmental Charges Act will raise environmental charges next year. It has a significant impact on our exports, construction and road construction. How do we view our businesses with this bill when environmental charges increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U519	Thank you, my good colleague. First of all, I want to tell you that you need to make sure that you want different tax increases or not. At one point, you will attack and ask why no such or similar tax increases are being made. But if there are tax increases somewhere, you're asking why such tax increases are being made. Make it clear to yourself first! It was kind of a little philosophical answer. That was my opinion. But when we are talking about environmental charges specifically now, the idea of the government union is that, if we are talking about rising charges at all, we should rather focus our energy on increasing environmental charges and increasing excise duties, but lower taxes on income.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U520	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U521	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We have common interests, and we both like the word "workout." But lately, I'm gonna make sure you have a panic button on. The word "need-based" goes through your story all the time. Now you're saying that school food should become needs-based, even in middle school. The Social Democrats, of course, agree that school meals should be free for all in upper secondary school. How do you take into account the need for school food if one wants to eat a portion of porridge, but the other wants multiple portions, etc.? What is the need-based attitude here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U522	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U523	Thank you. Let's start with your interpretation that my every other word is "need-based." I don't think you were right when you said that. Only if you've asked me about it, I've introduced this concept. That's one. When we talk about the necessity of school lunches, it does not, of course, mean that one has a larger portion and the other one has a smaller portion. More support must be given to people who are more deprived of others. People have different incomes. Rather, I see necessity from this point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U524	Thank you, good manager. Mr President of the Commission. My question is about local governments. It seems to me that this year, when negotiating, the state was unable to convince the local authorities that the final protocol could be signed on next year's budget. With regard to the land tax exemption, you slightly increase the income tax income of a natural person to the municipalities, but do not increase the compensation fund. My question is very simple, I hope the answer is simple. When will the coalition restore to local authorities the resources they still had in 2009? You won't do it next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U525	Thank you, my good colleague. I would say that the reduction measures were not temporary at the time. The restoration of the local government's income base can only take place in proportion to the restoration of the income of the entire other state. Local government is not in a separate background system. If we look at 2008, the so-called best year of our life, after which we were in a crisis, I can tell you (I think you also have these data) that in 2013 we will reach the 2008 level in terms of money. Good colleague, I think you'll agree. Financially, this means EUR 140 million if we look at 2013 and compare it with, for example, 2010. Very large sums of money have actually come to the local government. The income of local government can still increase in proportion to the revenue of the state, which is linked to each other. Nobody says 11.9% is the right percentage, maybe there should be another percentage. This is definitely a discussion place. One thing is clear: in 2013, we will come to a situation where local governments will have just as much financial cover for their responsibilities as was the case in 2008, that is, the year before the cut.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U526	Let's get on with the questions. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U527	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Apparently, the conduct of the Minister of Finance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs will live his life and someday books will be written about it. My deepest concern is that for five years in the Riigikogu I have been given a clear internal conviction that the state budget has been less and less written every year. Even in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, answers are no longer available. We all know that there are a number of non-profits (first I remember the Homeowners' Association) who receive some funding through ministries. This part of the NGO budget doesn't look like it anymore, not on any cost line. My question to you is this: do you think that the state budget is so transparent that those members of society who are not as big professionals as we are here will get clear answers and understand how we deal with money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U528	Thank you, good Aivar! I think there's room for improvement. I sincerely think that it is difficult to read and understand the state budget. I have quoted a good colleague from several times today who sits on my left side looking at me. I'm not gonna say his name again. He has said that he will occasionally make a statement on the state budget ten years ago to understand exactly what has been meant by one thing or another. The 2013 state budget is slightly different in this respect; its structure is more based on international standards. If you look at the explanatory statement, on the one hand, there's a lot of stuff out there, but the articulation is complicated and it's hard to understand, I'm saying. Certainly, this criticism, which was also in the Commission, should reach the Ministry of Finance, which is actually putting together the budget. Clearly, the more tables and numbers, the harder it gets to track. Especially when sub-appendages and references come in, it's hard to track. It has to be said that it is difficult to monitor. Of course, it is nice that all of this has become increasingly electronic, giving people who can view the electronic version of the budget a chance to move around the budget using search words and sub-links.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U529	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U530	Good chairman of the committee! It is very good for me to continue with the question of Aivar Riisalu. I also want to talk to my question about the overall transparency or comprehension of the budget, but I will do so in a concrete example. Point 10 of the proposal of the Committee on Finance concerns the area of government of the Ministry of Culture. Here is a table whose most rows are relatively understandable, which deals with an increase in the budget of one institution or another. But there is also a series of 'Assigned Grants', which will increase by around EUR 537000. Did the Commission also mention what was behind this amount? If so, can I, as a member of the Riigikogu, receive an oral or written overview of what is behind this amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U531	Thank you, good Mart! For a long time, I can give a response that I have not used here: it was not discussed in the Commission, and there was no specific question in the Commission about the specific entry of this 10th amendment. No one was interested in the coalition or the opposition. If you, good Mart, have an interest and a wish, and I realize that you have it, then we'll definitely record it. There is also an advisor to the Finance Committee sitting in the back corner of the hall, who writes that point 10 of the amendment to the Monetary Commission should be specified to the member of the Riigikogu. I'm sure we'll do it, of course. However, there was no question about this record in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U532	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U533	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I just went out and a curious person, as I am, met the people of Estonia there. I don't know if they were our constituents or your constituents, but in any case they weren't foreign tourists, they were still Estonian people. They asked me how about Haaberst's roundabout. This is not in next year's budget. It is clear that Tallinn cannot build it with its own money if you look at the local government's revenue base. In 2004, it was eligible and the project was carried out, it was approved, but that was the way it remained. After all, this is a real disgrace, not only the people of Tallinn but also the people of Keila and Harku rural municipalities. So it cannot be said that this is only Tallinn's problem. In fact, you would be able to do it and say that you see, the central party city power created such a thing, but you fixed it. When is this going to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U534	Thank you, my good colleague. Where were you last week, the week before last, and a month ago? Why didn't you make such an amendment? Then there would have been a reason to at least discuss it. Why didn't you make such an amendment? Where have you been? This amendment has not been on the table. I would point out that today we are discussing the amendments that have been on the table, we are discussing why they were not supported and whether they should have been supported. There really was no such amendment on the table. I think that how to develop infrastructure in Tallinn and elsewhere is worth discussing. But if we want to make one, two or three investment, it should certainly be clear how we plan to do it, when and with what means.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U535	Mr President, the speaker asked me where I was. Do I have to answer that question and can I answer that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U536	This is not a procedural question. But I'm sure you can let Sven Sester know when he's left the Riigikogu's chair. In the hallway, you can explain where someone was at a certain point. You can do that then. Thank you. Let's keep going. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U537	Viktor Vassilyev, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U538	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In the state budget next year, the income tax received by local governments will increase from 11.4% to 11.57% to compensate for the loss of land tax. In fact, it is clear that this does not compensate some municipalities or regions for the abolition of land tax, but that is not the main thing. It is far worse that the tax on land under public authorities is also being abolished. How will it be compensated for next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U539	Thank you, my good colleague. As far as I understand, the state has provided for the land tax on property owned by the Estonian state to be abolished, with no direct compensation as a percentage. If there are separate arrangements in the form of a fine-tuning fund, this must be specified. The share of income tax from 11,4% to 11,57% has, in my view, been based only on income foregone as a result of the abolition of taxation on the so-called "homeland'. If you find it necessary that the tax exemption for state-owned land should also be compensated for by local authorities, then make certainly such an amendment and we must discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U540	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U541	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable answer! I want to hope I don't get hit by another lightning strike. The previous response started with something that would require me to familiarise myself with the payment of the right to extract mineral resources. That was your position. I would like to say that we have agreed on these rates for companies until 2015, but for some reason the fees will increase at an early pace next year. Businesses in the Committee on the Environment have said that it has not been examined whether the current level of charges has met its objective. Are there socio-economic analyses of the new rates? Unfortunately, there aren't any. I'm asking you for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U542	But discuss this in the Committee on the Environment, my good colleague. This issue is under discussion in the Committee on the Environment as a draft. Agree with each other there and make possible changes. Discuss it! You have the time. The Committee on Finance would certainly expect input from you on how you think this should go forward. Let me know! If you think that changes should be made, make these changes in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U543	Rock Hard, please! Good fellow Kalvi Tough, I'm sorry! A procedural question, Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U544	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The money has already been planned into the draft state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U545	The President shall answer the procedural questions. Thank you for your comment. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U546	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! That's my question this time. There are rules, procedures for dealing with the state budget. They come from the law and there are also general, agreed rules. One such agreed rule or agreement, as it were in the past, is that the budget coming from the government does not take account of the amendments approved in the procedure of last year's Riigikogu and comes from the 'normal base'. But life goes on. After all, there are a series of things that, together with consensus, will be included in the budget and which, naturally, could also be included in the budget for next year, which will be presented by the government. I will give an example of the same rescue union money that is not in the budget again this year. Can you promise me that during the next year you will be discussing this in committee, and in next year's budget that comes from the government, these things are already inside?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U547	I will answer your question immediately, but I also want to explain the previous observation. If money is provided for in the budget and at the same time there is a procedure for a specific draft and if, for some reason, changes are to be made to the draft, then changes must be made to the state budget before the third reading. All these debates are open. I'm sorry, that was the answer to the previous question. Now we come to your question. The question was twofold: firstly, do I promise that we will discuss it, secondly, do I promise that these things will be included in the budget. The first part is yes, the second part is no. If you're asking me if we're gonna discuss this, I can promise you that. That we're discussing, I can always promise. Of course, raise the subject and we'll take a look at it. I can't promise you that it will find support. I certainly do not have the authority to say this today as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs; I do not have such a single power. I can't say there's going to be one thing, two thing or three in the state budget. Is it necessary to discuss whether it is necessary to find possible sources of cover at the expense of which it comes? Of course, the issues are necessary, let us discuss them, there is no doubt at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U548	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U549	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I look at this budget and I read the most important promise of coalition parties that child support will be increased. When I look at the budget, I get the feeling that one out of ten children gets support and nine don't get support. I also asked the Honourable Finance Minister whether this was true. This is what Taavi Rõivas spoke in this very hall, who said that the Vakra should make the law clear and look at the figures again. I reviewed the figures and found that he really had the right to comment on me. It turned out that eight children couldn't and two could. As a father, do you still consider it right that the much advertised child benefit is actually such that eight out of ten children lose it, and do you consider the increase to be sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U550	Thank you. I'm not quite sure about your calculations. At first, you said nine and one, now you say eight and two, maybe on your next question tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, you say seven and three. It seems your calculations have not always been correct. I dare not say what the correct coefficient is. However, I will say that we should get to the point where child support goes to the children and families for whom it is necessary. If this ratio is going to be 2: 8, 3: 7 or 4: 6, it's going to be that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U551	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U552	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Maybe it's a surprise for you, but there's one more thing I agree with you about. This is because we must do everything we can to encourage entrepreneurship, speed up economic growth and thereby move towards more expensive jobs, because the situation in Estonia is currently critical. As we know, in many areas there is a shortage of workers, people leaving Estonia. Here's what I want to ask you. We have heard a lot about your draft child benefit and that it is one of the most important things next year. But I do not think it would directly contribute to economic growth. You've been talking about a low tax base. Latvia and Lithuania are far below us. On this basis, it could be said that they are already more attractive than us, although I do not think that a low tax base is the key to the long-term development of business. But what do you think are the priorities in this budget for creating new jobs and promoting entrepreneurship, especially those that will help to move towards more value-added jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U553	Thank you. I think that there must be a low tax burden, and that is also one of the highest priorities. The thing that may have been said, but which has not always fallen into the right waters, is a predictable tax system, precisely in terms of raising taxes. In today's debate, it has also sounded like there are some taxes the government has wanted to raise. It is not even a question of raising these taxes; it is a question of how quickly one or the other is being put into practice. The more stable the tax environment, the lower the tax burden, the easier it is for a start-up company to set up a business, as you know, today it is possible to start a business without going anywhere, electronically, in a very short time, the cheaper it is to create a company in terms of state fees, in terms of paid-in capital, the better. There are many indicators that encourage the creation of a business environment. Of course, taxes are also important. Taxes, taxes and taxes again. For example, we will reduce unemployment insurance contributions in 2013, which will reduce the tax burden on both the employee and the employer. There are many such priorities. It is clear that, to some extent, in the context of entrepreneurship, countries are also fighting, if you could say so, with other countries to ensure that investments come to one, another or third country. I believe that there is no ideal country with the best taxes on shipping, the best taxes on the mining industry, the lowest labour taxes, etc. If such a country existed, it would be only there that businesses would be created, and no other country would make sense to set up a business. Surely there is no such country. Every country always has its pros and cons. If you look at the functioning of the Estonian state and the 2013 state budget that we are dealing with today, you might ask where this money comes from. This money comes from business. It can be said that our business climate and the decisions that have been made have still been correct. Otherwise, we would not have the financial resources available for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U554	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U555	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In September the teachers and students of Sinimäe Elementary School lived a serious tragedy when their school house was almost completely destroyed by fire. Today, 32,000 euros have been collected to support Sinimäe Elementary School. Does the state also intend to support Sinimäe Elementary School and, if so, to what extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U556	Thank you. I think that, in cooperation with the local government and the state, the consequences of all such tragedies need to be eliminated and the former situation restored. Naturally, both the local government and the state must deal with this. To what extent? I'm afraid I owe you an answer right now. I don't have that information. At what pace and with what projects? Today, there are many projects that fund the construction of school homes, kindergartens, and many other objects. I owe you an answer. If you're asking me if the country should shoulder it, I think so. Surely the school should not be built with the support of private donors.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U557	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U558	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In 2011, 2012 and 2013, the State has taken and withdraws EUR 98.7 million from the State Forest Management Centre. As a result of such manoeuvres, the current account of the state company is essentially reset to zero. On the other hand, RMK will receive a EUR 20 million loan from the state budget in order to maintain its liquidity. I see in these transactions a contradiction with the State Assets Act, which states in § 8 (1) that the sovereign of state assets is required to manage state assets in a purposeful, rational, sustainable and prudent manner. In my opinion, however, the withdrawal of money is literally detrimental to the economic activity of the state enterprise. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U559	When we're talking about RMK, as Jürgen Ligi once said from this remote control, it's neither meat nor fish. I think that's what the verbogram used to say. I think there's a grain of truth in it. This is the kind of formation that earns income and is in this context like a business. On the other hand, RMK must not borrow or engage in classical business as such. It's one of those formations, isn't it? But you said you saw a contradiction with certain sections of the law. Please, make sure you submit this to the necessary authorities. If there is a contradiction, these contradictions must be eliminated, it is not possible to understand the two ways. Then it will also be clear whether or not there is actually a contradiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U560	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U561	Thank you. I would also like to bring into the debate a very strategic field for Estonia, which is research and development. During the first reading of the draft state budget, I tried to obtain an assessment by the Minister of Finance of how the R &amp; D budget would appear in the budget for next year. It was as if there were inconsistencies in substance in the explanatory memorandum. Maybe there were, maybe no, it was hard to understand. But I am only asking now whether the Committee on Monetary Affairs was interested in funding in this area next year in meetings with ministers or in discussions between ministers. Research and development is a strategic area for the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U562	Thank you, my good colleague. The Minister of Education actually visited the Commission between first and second readings. I gave you a very thorough overview of what the Minister of Education and Science said at the time. But let's go over it. Yes, of course, the Members of the Commission were interested not only in this particular budget line, but also in several other budget lines that fall within the area of the Minister for Education. When it comes to funding specifically for R &amp; D, as you said, for the sake of the verbatim report, it must be said that in 2013 the R &amp; D resources will increase by EUR 6 million compared to this year. This means that this amount is EUR 169,1 million, which is 3.66% higher than this year. For the sake of the stenogram, that is now stated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U563	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U564	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'll come back to my last question. You speculated on what this relationship could be like, either 3: 7 or 4: 6. There are currently 259000 children in Estonia. On the basis of the draft, it is estimated that the allowance will rise to 50,000 to 60000 children. So let's do the math. It's about 20%, one fifth. Two kids out of ten get it, but eight kids don't. You know, as a father, I think you did everything in your power to make sure that child support, which you have advertised so strongly, would rise to more children than two out of ten children. But what did it do? This could have affected all Estonian children. Couldn't you convince the Reform Party or the Commission? What was behind this, though, that the increase in child support would have been a part of all Estonian children and not just two out of ten?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U565	Thank you. If you use the sentence structure that you used, I think it was behind the choice of whether we should give preference to non-disclosure or need-based benefits for child support. It's as simple as that. If we follow the logic of the benefits, i.e. increase child benefit for all, ten children will be part of it. Now the question is, are 10 out of 10 kids supposed to get it? What should we decide? I think that we should take decisions within the framework of national financial opportunities, and these decisions could and should be needs-based. I really think that necessity is the right approach for many grants, not just for child support. An analogous situation is, by the way, the reduction in VAT, which has been the subject of recent proposals. Again, should we lower VAT on one, another or third service or product? Perhaps we should rather see that target groups who consume a particular service or product can do so. An analogous debate, we recall, was about VAT on cultural events and activities. Do you remember that debate? It was very topical here. Should various cultural events have lower value added tax (VAT) or not? I remember that an example of the Beer Summer, which had, I understood, a reduced VAT rate at that time, was also brought back at that time. On this topic, an event related to deep music should rather be supported, while at the same time maintaining the equal rate of VAT that applies to everyone in the Republic of Estonia. That's the logic of necessity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U566	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U567	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! The Democratic Union of the Riigikogu put forward two of its three proposals to raise the salaries of rescue officers, border guards and police officers. At the operational level, what do you think would be the amount that people working in the field could feed their families and pay utilities, and what would motivate them to work well? What do you think the gross wage would be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U568	Thank you. I don't want to go along with these speculations, it's a slippery ice. Indeed, I do not want to hide behind the fact that we did not talk about this in the Commission, that is not a convenient answer. But the truth is, this speculation would be a slippery ice. We all have needs. There are analysts who calculate what is needed to survive what is needed for one, two, or third thing. I'm gonna stay in this position, so I'm not gonna tell you any numbers. I don't have the authority to give you a bill like this in this room either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U569	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U570	Thank you. Honourable performer! I come back to the elderly, i.e. pensioners. The pensions could have been raised by 6.5%, but you only gave the money 5%. Next year, electricity prices will rise to the point that, according to current estimates, up to 10% of the pensioner's poor income will start to go to electricity. How did this thing come to be decided that the pension increase was so weak, also considering that no pensions were raised in the year before last?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U571	Thank you. That's a good question. I was waiting for this question to explain why pensions would rise by 5%, not less, but not more. Today, a journalist wanted to know the same thing. I said it would be very difficult to explain in ten seconds, which is usually given in response to television. I'm trying now. Here I have the opportunity to explain a little more and more. I'm trying to explain it to you for the sake of this verbatim, and I'm trying to explain it to you when I answer you. Let's start by indexing pensions on April 1. In 2013, the pension index resulting from social tax receipts and inflation could in itself be 1.067 if I was wrong, or 1.063, in short, slightly more than 1.060. One could say that the pension increase could also be more than 6%. Why is it 5%? It should be taken as a basis for indexing public pensions on 1 April. If the index is less than 1, the law states this and there is a general agreement that pensions will not be reduced. So if this coefficient is 0.9 with something, then in any case the coefficient is 1, and the pensions are not reduced. This was the case, for example, in 2010 and 2011 when the coefficient was below 1. In 2010 the calculated index was 0,909 and in 2011 was 0,957, but the pensions did not decrease at that time. As the law states that pensions will not decrease if the index is less than 1, there will be a situation where the Government of the Republic is obliged to set off pensions without increasing or reducing them. I'm sorry! The government can reduce pensions. In a situation where the coefficient was less than 1, he did not reduce pensions but left them at the same level. If the coefficient is more than 1, the Government of the Republic will amortize, or offset, pensions within five years. He could have raised pensions by 1% at the moment, for example, and so would have achieved a faster set-off. He would have had that chance. But the government is based on both the consumer price index and the pension level of previous years, when the coefficient was less than 1. It will seek to address this as a compromise and cooperation in the coming years. This is what caused the situation where, with a 5% increase in pensions, we cover the value of the pension index in previous years, which was less than 1.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U572	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U573	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Of course, the state does these transactions with the State Forest Management Centre primarily in order to achieve the balance of the state budget. But I'm saying that if we don't invest enough in the forest, RMK doesn't have that capability. It is estimated that in the next 10 years, the failure to do the necessary forest improvement will reduce the cutting capacity of the state forest by one third, from the current 3 million cubic metres to 2 million. In the same rhythm, RMK's own economic indicators fall. In addition, the economic impact of the reduction in the added value of wood processing must be taken into account. Paragraph 8 (4) of the State Assets Act states that when carrying out any acts or transactions with state assets, the manager of state assets must be guided by the principle of increasing the benefits and avoiding the losses which the State may incur from these acts and transactions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U574	You didn't have a question. I'll say yes. Everything you quoted from the law is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U575	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U576	Thank you. Good performer! I will raise the issue of pensions again. We know this story that you see, now there is netting, and in the meantime pensions did not fall, although the index could have fallen. But let's think that this year, which is about to end, pensions were increased by only 4.4%, although they could have raised 5.4%. In the intervening years, pensions were frozen. Remember that pensions had to rise by almost 14% in 2009, but only increased by 5%. Look at the difference! Next, we are talking about an old-age pension, but when we are talking about an average pension, you are certainly aware that the average pension last year has fallen over 12 years. Let's also talk about a real pension. My question is: how much do you think the real pension has decreased in five years? I can tell you that the Pensioner's Association has calculated that 20.7%. But how much do you think it will do?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U577	Thank you, my good colleague. In 2013, pensions will increase by 5%, which is entered in the budget. The five-year offset that we have just talked about will harmonise pension incomes and costs in all subsequent years, so as to ease fluctuations in costs and benefits and also provide more general clarity about the future of the pension system. For example, let's look at summer forecasts. Pensions rose 4.4% in 2012 and pensions rose 5% in 2013. The forecasts for the summer tell us that we will see whether these forecasts will be valid or not in the near future, that pensions are expected to rise by 6.1% in 2014, by 5.5% in 2015 and 5.6% in 2016. In this sense, it is good to record it in the verbatim so that, in the future, we can look at the real-life correlation of the projections, but we can also see from here what the pension increase will be in the near future. Certainly, whenever possible, pensions should always grow faster than the cost of living. That was what you mentioned. If we look at 2012, the consumer price index has risen by 3.9%, but the pension increase has been 4.4%. Consumer prices are forecast to rise by 3.5% next year, while pension increases by 5%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U578	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U579	Thank you. Honourable performer! I think you guys are gonna like talking today, and I'm gonna give you another chance to discuss and philosophize a little bit. After all, every other question ends with the fact that we do not have enough money in the state budget and that we cannot allocate as much money as we need to. Have you thought about why there isn't enough money? Do you agree with me that in recent years the Estonian state has not been able to earn as much money as it would need to exist? Discuss this, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U580	Thank you, good Heimar! No, I don't agree with you. The state budget for next year is clearly on the rise, while taking a balanced state budget path. Look what's really going on next year! Pensions are rising, wages are rising in the public sector, subsidies are increasing. One member of the Riigikogu asked about research and development costs. They're increasing. Look at the student benefits! Dear colleague, look at this budget. Once again, put together two budgets: this year's budget and next year's budget, which we are currently dealing with. I think that if there is a good budget this year, the 2013 budget that we are currently working on will be even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U581	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U582	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! It has really been interesting to listen to your presentation and answers to questions, as well as to your various philosophical reflections on how to improve the budget. You have now praised for quite a few hours that this is an almost irreplaceable budget. You have long read out what tax bases should really be and how these are the only right ones. However, looking at what is happening in society and at how much disappointment there is in governance, in its style, in these only correct answers, do you think that this budgetary process and this budgetary procedure here, where only one side has the right answers, do not reconfirm the notion that there is only one truth, that everything else is wrong and dim?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U583	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U584	Thank you. That's a good question. I think that the budgetary process does not really mean those weeks or months when the budget has been in the proceedings in the Riigikogu. The budget was essentially processed from the beginning of this year. This activity culminated in a national budget strategy for several years, and now the state budget itself. During this process, ministries (I hope at least this has been the case) have interacted with a number of interest groups. I can't tell you how much and how closely they've done it, but I imagine this communication has been happening all year. I do not want to agree with you if you say that what we are seeing here is a one-time, one-time, concrete vision of a minister and a ministry, to which areas of different ministries have been merged. I think we see, in the budget we have on the tables today, very many people's perceptions of where and how the country should proceed. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U585	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question concerns the compatibility of next year's state budget or, it seems to me, rather a contradiction with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. On my desk is a letter from the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities, which has been sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. They have pointed out in quite a number of points and paragraphs that they consider that the draft state budget does not comply with the Constitution. They refer, on the one hand, to § 157 and § 3 of the Constitution and, on the other hand, to the drawing up of a wider budget and, at the same time, to a number of lines concerning local authorities. In the past, the Estonian Supreme Court has indicated that several previous national budgets may have been in conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. What do you respond to several hundred Estonian local government leaders and representatives of several Estonian cities and rural municipalities who have signed this letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U586	Thank you. I think this is an important question. I understand that the issue is mainly driven by the fact that the revenue and expenditure of local authorities has been transferred into the state budget itself in the context of the 2013 state budget. Such a letter has come to both the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. If you have noticed, I have not constantly quoted any passages, but I have generally looked you in the eye, but let me now read to you to some extent for the sake of the verbatim In particular, income tax and land tax are public taxes, regardless of the fact that they are fully or partially collected into the budget of the local government unit. The rightful party to the national tax, i.e. the tax authority, the administrator and the tax collector, can only be the State. The fact that the Tax Act provides that a public tax or part of it is to be received into the budget of a local government unit does not make the local government entity the recipient of the state tax. The law imposes on the State the obligation to collect tax on such a tax and to pass it on to the local authority. Despite the fact that according to the law the tax is collected into the budget of the local government unit, the payment of the state tax results in a legal relationship between the taxpayer and the State. As a tax collector, the tax authority collects funds received in the form of state taxes and, in the circumstances where the law provides for the receipt of state tax into the budget of the local government unit, it transmits them to the local government units in accordance with the legislation. There is a separate legal relationship between the State and the local government, which obliges the State to pass the tax on to the local government. Thus, in the case of state tax, where the law provides for the budget of the local government unit, two separate legal relationships can be legally distinguished: the legal relationship between the taxpayer and the State, the legal relationship between the collection of funds, and the legal relationship between the State and the local government unit, the legal relationship between the transfer of funds. In so doing, the State is responsible for collecting the tax resources within the legal relationship with the collection of the funds, as well as for transferring the collected resources to the local authorities in the context of the legal relationship with the transfer of the funds. As a summary of this, the alignment of the share of taxes on local government units with the principle of universality of the state budget does not interfere with the right of self-regulation of local government. What I told you is an understanding of the letter that brought to the table by the local authorities. If it requires a trial, I think that this dispute must be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U587	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U588	Thank you. Unfortunately, only two questions can be asked, otherwise I would also respond to this long quote from you. But you're probably right that this argument should be held in court. In response to my previous question, you gave quite confidently that every ministry had already had this preliminary debate and that the Riigikogu, in principle, did not have to have a very long dialogue, could also accept a monologue. I'm asking what's already been asked of you today. It is said that the Ministry of Education and Research has discussed with local authorities and school managers in the private sector how to actually raise teachers' salaries to the extent permitted next year. You've been quite convinced that the Ministry has really negotiated this. Are you convinced that local authorities will find these resources and that teachers' salaries will increase to the extent that the Minister has promised?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U589	Thank you. The simple answer is yes, I'm convinced. Since you're asking me if I'm convinced, I'm saying yes, I am. But I'm trying to give you a little longer answer. The discussion has been raised by the question that if the state provides 4.4% of resources for teachers' pay to rise, but the Minister of Education says that the wage increase is 11%, then what or whose account the money comes from. That's what we're talking about. I can tell you that the Minister of Education has stressed that the money given to municipalities, which increases the wage subsidy for teachers, does not give rise to additional costs for municipalities. It has pointed out how wages will rise by 11%, or EUR 15 million, if EUR 7.5 million has been allocated directly from the state budget. He has shown that EUR 7.5 million is the money that comes directly from the state budget to raise wages. Secondly, EUR 4 million from the reserve resulting from a decrease in the number of pupils and an additional amount will also be earmarked for teachers' salaries. Thirdly, part of the supplementary training for teachers given to municipalities is allocated to teachers' salaries, which gives them an additional EUR 3.8 million. I now stress: the reduction in the funding of continuing training is compensated by the state which, in cooperation with schools and associations of subjects, will already organise further training from European money. Fourthly, the teachers' wage fund will also increase as a result of a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions of almost half a million euros. If we put all these sums together now, we will get EUR 15 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U590	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U591	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! As a matter of fact, I can't imagine the passion you're defending the budget with today. If you'd stand up for the right thing, everything would be fine. But here's the question: what grade would you put on this budget yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U592	Thank you. Well, who doesn't want to praise one thing or another or the other? Given the possibilities available, I would put a relatively high price on the budget. I don't know how many balls in the system we're dealing with, but I'd give you a high grade. I have also pointed out the reasons why a high grade should be given. Is the maximum score, that's a separate question. You can always think that one thing, one thing, or the other, could have done better. Undisputed. But the question is the trend. Previous budgets must also be looked at. You always have to follow the background system. On this basis, it can be said that this is a good budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U593	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U594	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a slightly broader question about the perspective. By discussing this budget today, we can see that it is a relatively poor budget for a relatively poor time. We just can't get any better. But we are faced with the fact that the population has decreased and the education and medical system is not working very well. Have you discussed in the coalition that perhaps it is time to dismantle the entire Estonian tax system into blocks and start a debate on the perspective we want? What kind of system could this be in the future so that Estonia could continue to exist and survive as a state? Is this a taboo you can't talk about at all, or have you started discussing it quietly in the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U595	Thank you, good Andres! Two things. I'm about to get to the bottom of your question. You started, of course, with the fact that this was a bad bill, and then you got to your question. This is not a poor bill: the revenue from the state budget will increase by 163 million euros next year, i.e. 2.2%, while the costs will increase by 1.1%. Revenues are higher than costs. We are on our way to achieving the balanced state budget that has been the goal of this government coalition. If you look at the sector's investment in education and in the public sector at all, how can it be said that it is a bad budget or a poor budget, as you said? I don't think that's right. But now the other side of the answer. Do you take the whole Estonian tax system apart, including labour taxes and consumption taxes from pollution charges to excise duties? I think these debates are welcome and, under no circumstances should such discussions be stifled. There will also be feedback from society and it is known what people support more and the less. Tax policy is, in fact, part of the policy that we feel every day. Whether we want it or not, it is often tax policy decisions that are important to make preferences. I am not saying that this is right or wrong, but even in Riigikogu elections, tax policy issues have been one of the main issues. If I am not mistaken, they were not in the last Riigikogu elections, but sometimes they have been the main topics. I will tell you in answer that the discussion on how Estonia should proceed with its tax system is always open. Has this system justified itself now? I say yes, he's justified himself. Maybe you say it differently, but I think he's justified himself. You always have to discuss something based on something. I will see where Europe is now. I have been told that we are also taking on larger loans, because Europe is going down anyway, and then the loans, our loans among others, are being devalued. I don't share that view. I'm not saying you said that, I'm saying there have been such a level of discussion. I don't think that's the right approach. Once again: I think that a discussion of the tax types used in Estonia is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U596	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U597	Thank you. Mr. Sester! I've been watching you all night, and I'm saying that you're in very good shape and that you're defending the state budget for next year with great confidence and confidence. But my question is human. Do you really believe that next year's state budget will make our people happier and bring us closer to a welfare state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U598	I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U599	Thank you. That's a good question. I really believe that. I think that the opportunities that we have now been given have been realised in the state budget. It can always be discussed whether any subsidies could be higher, whether some investments could be higher, whether any wage increases could be higher. Surely we have had such debates and will continue in the future. But by looking at the entire state budget as a set, not taking out one, another or third segment, I say that it is actually a budget aimed at people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U600	Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, thank you for your presentation and your answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U601	Thank you. It was a pleasant discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U602	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In a long discussion, the chairman of the Monetary Committee paternally reprimanded the opposition of the Riigikogu, because the members of the opposition do not know what they are doing or, if they do, knowingly do Greece. It seems that Estonia's governance is still a policy without alternatives. I'm sure it's dangerous. This is a threat to democracy, although at times it seems that the crisis of Estonian political morality has been provoked by the government coalition itself in order to divert attention from the fact that in the state budget that has been presented to us, all the problems that we drew attention to the need to resolve a year ago are still unsolved in this year's state budget. Since the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which spoke before, tried to give the impression that the opposition's proposals had been drawn up either unprofessionally, irresponsibly or even out of compliance with the requirements of the law, I would like very briefly to mention the Socialist amendment bearing the order number 2 in the table of the amendments. With this amendment, first of all, we want to increase all children's allowances three times as compared to the current one from 1 July next year. I stress: our proposal is to support all children, not six with an additional EUR 9, but 38 with an additional EUR. This proposal is not called a reform of child benefits or family benefits, we Social Democrats, but we are simply talking about the need to increase child benefits. We talked about this before the Riigikogu elections, we talked about it last year when we are processing the budget for this year, and we are talking about it now too, because it is necessary, justified and substantive. Secondly, our proposal is to restore the kindergarten programme from 1 July next year. This necessary program was launched when the Social Democrats were in government. Unfortunately, after we left the government, it went under one of the first hatchets. Our proposal also includes a 20% increase in the salary of teachers in general education schools. We want needs-based learning grants to be valid as early as next year, and compensation for student loans will be restored to those who have already completed their university studies and who, on the basis of legitimate expectations, want the state to fulfil the promise given to them. It is also a question of the credibility of the country. We also propose to take a step towards restoring the income share of the local government by increasing the share of the budget revenue they receive from personal income tax. Our proposal is also to restore police and rescue wages to pre-death levels. There is no reason why this could or could not be done, there is no reason why this should not be done. We want additional funding from the health budget, I mean residents and ambulances. We are only talking about EUR 3.5 million here. The government wants to reach out for this money into the purse of the unemployed. We consider it immoral. Our proposal is for the Riigikogu to look in the mirror and find this money in the reserve, which is intended to be used in the government coalition as a so-called 'roof money'. This money exists and the source of this amendment is completely realistic. Finally, I will once again come back to the so-called reform of child benefits, which may have been the most discussed during this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U603	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U604	When we discussed the so-called reform of child benefits in this Chamber yesterday, the representative of the Commission mentioned this draft as Estonia's role models for Cyprus, Spain, Italy and Portugal. In the future, I think, the government coalition should look in the mirror and scare Greece not the Estonian people and the opposition to the parliament, but perhaps the mother-in-law at home. We Social Democrats aim at a Nordic country; a country that values human assets in particular; a country that is willing to invest in human resources, or public health. There is no reason why we will not be able to use health insurance reserves next year instead of increasing the day-to-day visit and bed pay, thereby increasing patients' own contribution to healthcare expenditure. Our goal is a country where helping the unemployed is considered not to answer the request for alms, but to invest in the future of our people. We want Estonia to be a country that invests in human resources and looks beyond the formal balance of the budget. Let us face it: at present, the state is actually achieving a budgetary balance that is close to balance, because we know that next year the budget of both the central government and, for example, the health insurance fund will only be in deficit at the cost of a reduction in the resources of the unemployment fund. The Social Democrats have been responsible in their amendment and have complied with all laws. As the law provides, we have covered the cost lines of our amendments either by reducing other expenditure lines or by additional sources of revenue. So that no one can accuse us of trying to use the same source of cover to finance a number of amendments and to cultivate populism, we have drafted a single integrated proposal which expresses all our wishes to change both revenue and expenditure. We expect this Chamber, especially this part of the Chamber, where Mr Herkel is currently alone, to understand and support our amendment. Certainly, even if our proposal is adopted, this budget will not solve all the problems facing Estonia, but we would take a major step towards a more humane Estonia by voting in the budget of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U605	Thank you. Marianne Mikko, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U606	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Denmark, which has recently held the Presidency of the European Union, has also identified the promotion of equality among the priorities of one of its fingers. This is so self-evident and already done in all Nordic countries. Estonia, whose ambition is to be like Scandinavia, tries to take over everything that relates to competitiveness and welfare in general, but the government takes over the Scandinavian model à la carte. I'm saying it's a bust-up and it doesn't really work. In fact, a Scandinavian welfare state means equal opportunities and women and men rule their countries hand in hand and do both careers and homework together. Social democrats have always considered it important that women and men are treated equally. There is a law on gender equality in Estonia, but its implementation is carried out with persistent and long teeth. At times, there is the feeling that a government with only one woman among male ministers, not just wants this worthy law not to be implemented, but even torpedoes its implementation. Originally, the role of the Gender Equality Commissioner was soon added to the responsibilities of the Equal Treatment Commissioner, by the way. Well, let's talk straight and straight! By adding the burden, the government forgot to hire more people. It's so easy to blame the circumstances. Well, you know, it's time for the depression, everyone gets it! Every Member knows that this is a story about sheep. If there's political will, they'll have bears dancing, let alone squirrels. That is exactly what I would like to say: there is no will and, if you read the budget for next year, it will be clear that there will be no will. Our Office of the Commissioner for Equal Treatment has worked well. A total of 358 applications were received last year at the Commissioner's office. Thus, almost every day came a new topic which had to be examined and which did not need to be answered by two sentences, but rather had to be recorded in 20 pages of analysis. This workload must be borne by two women. Let us try to visualize how quickly two people can process hundreds of applications by using mathematics. In the media, there is a murmur about how things are being resolved in the Commissioner's office. Of course it is, and it's gonna be a long time if you can't hire more people! 358 applications and five times eight hours a week. The complaints are well in order, and the queue stretches like a consultative period. This time, however, the deficit is not a commodity but a human resource. The Socialist Group firmly believes that the budget of the Commissioner for Equal Treatment must increase in the budget for next year. Therefore, the Social Democrats, who consider gender balance and equal treatment to be their fundamental value, proposed an amendment to add an additional 80000 to the current EUR 57000. We rely on the parliamentary behaviour of the Riigikogu and believe that Parliament has the power and the heart to allocate this money to the office of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U607	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U608	Honourable fellows! The Estonian population is ageing and shrinking, and this is a known fact. In the wake of the many generations of the Singing Revolution, the transition period will be a rather narrower generation. Potential births are nearly twice as low. The birth rate of Estonia was 1.52 last year, but it should be at least 2.1 to maintain recovery levels. Iive continues to decline, despite the fact that we have about 200,000 women in the best birth age, and this figure is now at the top. In a few years, however, this figure will start to decrease dramatically, decreasing by 70,000 in a few decades. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Demographic processes are progressing in their own way, yet we can do a lot to make a radical change in family policies for more births. Mothers and fathers would like two or three children, confirming research. What, then, prevents them from fulfilling their desires? Insufficient material support from the state, corresponding potential parents, scarce childcare facilities and the fear that children will not be able to provide decent childhood and decent education. Thus, parents need confidence that they can raise their children with dignity even in bad times when, for example, they lose their job or remain alone. Society must give parents this confidence. The current family policy is tearing from every seam. State support is focused on the birth of a child. After the end of the parental benefit, if the child is one and a half years old, let everyone see how they can proceed. Yet, the costs that a child needs to grow are increasing. But the trend of the last three years is the most worrying in population processes that even the first children will not be born into the family. The statistics of premieres have fallen on the scene, under conditions where the number of women of childbearing age is still at the top. In a few years, it will fall. If the family doesn't have the first children, there will be no others. Thus, the natural need to pay out the support of third and subsequent children is fading, and so will the people. Yes, children increase the risk of poverty. However, if a family has to rely on the state for help only when poverty is already in the house, children would rather not be given birth. It is well known to potential parents that in absolute poverty or at risk of poverty, we have over 63000 children, or 18% of all children and young people under 18 years of age. Someone could be blamed for not wanting to set up a family life with the help of a food bank who, as you hear, collects macaroni again for hungry children. Ladies and gentlemen, Every child needs state support, and as a youth, he does not need it less than a child's age. That is why the Socialist family policy programme provides for a triple of child benefit as a basic measure: every child and young person should be paid EUR 57 per month until they reach the age of 19. No hair-breaking by family income, no exceptions. The message of the country must be clear: every child is welcome! The Social Democrats have repeatedly proposed to the Riigikogu proceedings a triple of universal child benefits. We have also tabled this amendment on the state budget. Child benefits must remain universal, otherwise the state would put a label on the children and only show that some children are more welcome in our low birth rate country than the other. Such an attitude is disastrous. We must make every effort to ensure that there are no unborn first-born children in our families. If you don't have your first baby, you don't have one. Thus, the natural need to pay out the support of third and subsequent children is fading, and so will the people. When we think of the pathetic demographic trend, we must not in any way forget to let these children who are growing up here and now, the insane contrasts in Estonia. We have called for universal child support for all children. Right now, it is families that are in desperate need of every cent that are living in deep poverty that are deprived of it. Good fellows! The Social Democrats have four times submitted a draft to the Riigikogu procedure proposing that child benefits and income support be kept separate so that child benefits are not included in the income of the family when applying for income support. The government coalition has rejected it four times. After all, child support is still included and will continue to be included in the family's income, no matter how much they propose to change the arrangements. Yes, a fresh tenner can be gained with the help of the so-called reform of the government departments. Nineteen euros is on the same table, ten on the other. At least 3% of GDP should be found in Estonia to support children. For a small and poor country, there is not much of it. To say that in the case of higher child benefits, the family could fatten itself lazy and the parents would lose their motivation to look for work is not nice, to put it mildly. Getting a living job does not depend as much on a person's hard work as on acquaintances. This is the case in the capital city, where employers are concentrated, to talk about the rest of the world. Poverty, however, restores and perpetuates poverty. It's nothing to say that we don't have any money for children. Who or what does the country have the money for? Or maybe we'll only wake up in ten years from the current narcissism to ask, "Where did all the children go? ' Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U609	Thank you very much. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Vladimir Velman, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U610	Good chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! Today, 23 of the 27 EU countries had a strike against the European Union's budgetary policy. The European Parliament's Committee on Budgets refused to support the European Union budget, which has been presented by the Euro Committee, the European Union's government. The day of action and solidarity has been announced in Europe today, but the Estonian people are still silent today. Therefore, we are not among the five countries that we are tired of talking about, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, but we are among the four countries of the European Union in which there is a silent era. Only the opposition in the Chamber of Riigikogu and the protestors in the Palace will bring us back to Europe in a sense, bring us closer to European values, because the fight for social rights is part of and will remain part of our common values. During the Singing Revolution, Heinz Valk said words that then went to the heart of the Estonian people. Those words were: "One day we will win anyway. " At that time, we all believed that a free country and a righteous country would await us, where every man was valued and the country cared for people. Today, however, it became clear that the rhetoric of the singing revolution was premature. Today it would be right to clarify the words of Heinz Protein as follows: "One day we will die anyway. " It is true that none of us will remain on earth forever. My topic when discussing the draft budget is one of the sad but also very human problems of funeral support. I did not choose the issue of funeral support as the subject of my speech today, not because I am the oldest member of the Centre Party Group, which is why this topic could be close to my heart. I am talking about the funeral allowance because, having been the long-time chairman of the Northern Tallinn Administrative Council, I have been exposed several times to the problems of people whose relatives died and who have suffered serious financial problems from this sad event. In Estonia, the funeral allowance, amounting to 191 euros, was abolished from 1 July 2009. Since then, only the local government will provide the assistance with the funeral allowance. We have reached a situation where many municipalities are experiencing a major headache in this problem. There has been a surge in the number of people who refuse to bury their own because they lack the money to do so. People even take fast loans to arrange funerals. Three years ago, the pretext was "pulp." Then there was the savings of the government's sacred cow. Since then, a number of measures have been taken, including an increase in the share of defence expenditure to 2% of GDP. I understand that security is important to the state, but no less important is the state's care for its people, especially in their most difficult moments of life. The faction of the Centre Party brought before the Riigikogu a draft law amending the State Death Support Act. This draft, like all the others presented by the opposition, was buried at first reading. The main argument was that each municipality feeds its own sante, i.e. let each municipality bury its dead if their relatives are overwhelmed by it. I would understand such an attitude if this change had resulted in huge costs for the country. At the same time, I understand that the number of people in need of funeral support is increasing every day. Unemployment, low wages and even smaller pensions raise the problem. However, this budget does not solve these problems, rather it produces new ones. The source of the funeral allowance could, by the way, be ten million dollars that were lost at the time, or the money of the Integration and Migration Foundation, which went into the propaganda of the famous people of the Reform Party. The money could also be taken from the nightstands of the members of the Reform Party. But this money is held by the older brother of the ruling coalition, probably for his funeral. I will finish my speech with the following words: the government, which is arrogant to profit from price increases and considers helping people to be pointless, needs to be replaced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U611	Thank you. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U612	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have come before you to ask for support for Amendment 94, which aims to restore school support of EUR 5120000. In order to argue this, I'll give you a few numbers. These figures are all official, all from the website of Statistics Estonia. These are the kind of numbers that make me personally depressed. So, a few years after the end of World War I, in 1921, over 22,000 people were born in Estonia and 17,000 died. This means that the natural ive was positive for the circle of 5,000 people. Ive was positive from one war to another. Except for 1929, which was a year of huge economic crisis in the world. This must have been the case in all the countries affected by the crisis. 1921-1939. The Estonian population grew by 42000 people until then. In 1947, after World War II, the crops were again positive. This was positive until and including 1990. Over these years, the population grew by 242000 people. More people were born when they died. But now: from 1991 to 2011, the age was constantly negative, except in 2010, when the population grew by 35 people. Not 35,000, just 35 people! Last year, it was negative again. We lost 82000 people in that time. Soon, women born in the 1990s will be in active childbirth. In five to seven years, we will have less than 10,000 children a year, with well under 10,000 children. How did children live after World War I? In the Republic of Estonia at the time, they usually lived in a full family, since the marriages per thousand inhabitants per year were 7 This means that the intercourse was 13: 1 to 19: 1. But in the last 20 years, at best, divorces have been twice as low as marriages. In two years, there were more divorces than marriages in 1995 and 1996. Currently, one third of children living in Estonia live with one parent. In 1990, there were 459000 people aged between 0 and 19 (people of this age are the future of the country). Estonians, if any, were interested, 278000 of them, or the circa, were 30% of the population at that time. Last year, the generation belonged to 280000 people for the year zero to 19 years, with 207000 Estonians, or 21% of the population. The most promising and necessary generation, people aged 0 to 19 years, has fallen by one third: from 30% to 21%. I recall Eurostat's forecast that by 2030 this generation will fall by some 60,000 more. At the same time, in 1990 there were 60-year-olds and older, less than 262800 or 17%, and last year there were 305000 or 23%. This age group has grown by a third and is growing very rapidly. Busy people aged 15 to 69 were 826000 in 1990, compared with 609000 people aged 15 to 74 last year. This age range was increased by five years. This means that the number of these people decreased by 28%. These are crazy processes, just crazy. This is a disaster! I'm also talking about children studying in day school. I'm very sorry to hear that, but there are fewer students in day school today than there were in 1950. Initially, there are a little more than in 1945 when 125,000 children studied in schools, but already less than in 1950. Last year there were 136000 students and, as far as I know, 134700 children went to school this year. Colleagues! If we have no youth, we have no future. If we can't control these processes, we don't have a future. And we can't control them. Only yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs did we look at the amendments to this year's budget. I inform you that in one article there was such a sentence that it is possible to use 24000 euros as a source of cover, which is beyond the residency costs of the University of Tartu in relation to the number of residents less than estimated. We've been talking about medicine all the time lately. We are allowed all kinds of steps to improve the situation. But you can see that even in the residency, the participation of young people is decreasing. One more thing. Fertility treatment is not needed by anyone. Infertility benefits will be reduced by an additional budget of EUR 156700 this year. Even if the State provides aid for the financing of assisted artificial insemination, the funds allocated are not to be used. Colleagues! Steps such as school support and other family benefits depend on whether we have a future at all or not. Support border support, Amendment 94! I think that the whole of Estonia is counting on you, the esteemed two colleagues from the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U613	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U614	Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber! I'll pick up where Mr. Stalnukhin ended his speech. My statistics, of course, are not much more positive. But I am linking this issue of dying youth to the older generation right now. We are used to saying that our young people are no longer able to support pensioners because so many of them have emerged. The current phrase is that society is ageing both in the European Union and in Estonia, and we do not know what to do with this problem, because there are so many old people. Only a few months ago, at the end of the summer, the number of pensioners in Estonia exceeded 400000. Everyone is worried, starting with our Prime Minister, who is here every week in Question Time, and he has no way of explaining how to support and support the older generation. Everyone's worried there's too many old people. But what I want to say is that it is one of the greatest joys mankind has experienced in recent years. Most of the people in this hall remember the fairy tales of childhood, how heroes dreamed of immortality and living long. Now we have reached the point that a person's life expectancy is thought to be approaching a hundred years. But now we don't know what to do with it. What a story! Instead of breathing the trumpets of joy and rejoicing that life has finally advanced so far that man can live so long, we are sad. We don't know what to do or how to help or hold this older generation. This year is declared the year of active ageing in the European Union. I stress that the Year of Active Ageing, not the Year of Active Ageing, as many have also spoken in this Chamber. There is no need to grow old actively, to grow active and to live up to the last day of your life, to participate in life and to be a full member of society. The slogan of this active life is in last trouble because no young people, no workers, started to turn to the older generation. Let's get them back to work, get the old people to work. We remember the way Marika Tuus was defending the bill in this very hall, which provided that people should not be fired from work because of their age. Now, finally, the humane principle is also in circulation in Estonia, so that you really must not let go of work because of your age. Now, on the contrary, we are turning to these old people to help society. Since there are no more children, they have to save society and get back to work. Some, whose health permits, have done so. There are also entrepreneurs who have employed old people, although we cannot talk about mass movements here. There's nothing to do! Human health is not strong enough to endure to the end. Still, we can see the tendencies. Why am I saying this? I am speaking because, by looking at the budget, we see that we are in no way able to enjoy the historic revolution that has taken place, that man's life has gone so long. We are already talking about the limit of a hundred years in the coming years, and some scientists say that perhaps in a few or thirty years' time, we can also talk in some sense about a much longer life span or a conditional human immortality. But we cannot fund the older generation that we want to call to save society. We are putting only 5% in the budget, although we heard today, and Mr Sester also said that we could calmly add 6.5%. Looking at the absolute number, we have a shamefully low pension. In my opinion, the average old-age pension is now 305 or 308 euros, which is actually a poor allowance. Those colleagues who have worked in this Chamber before remember that, during the Mart Laar government, the word "pension" was not in circulation, but was spoken of as a living allowance. We're about back to the same level right now. A person might survive with that money somehow. The EUR 305 is actually ridiculously small money, and it is indeed very difficult to make ends meet, especially when we look at the price increases that have been in recent times. Real pensions have actually decreased in recent years. In its calculations, the Pensioners' Association has shown that the real pension has actually decreased by 21 to 22%. The situation of older people is pretty much weeping. Today, when the session had already begun and the budget was discussed, a pensioner from Võrumaa called me and said that you should still try to get it to 6.5% in the hall. I said to him, "You know, dear man, it only seems like you're watching TV that there's something you can decide in this hall. In fact, everything has been done a long time ago, the papers have been printed, and for you, this increase is still 5%. " The caller calculated how much more euros would be available if it increased by 1.5%, and said that it would buy the right amount of dry matter as a reserve. This is the situation that we have put our older generation in! Indeed, it is embarrassing to listen and speak. The worst part is that 20 years have been saying the same thing about the remote and the press. We are so used to this talk that we will not even look different when we hear that a person has to deal with 300 euros. I know that those who often go to Brussels and meet with representatives of other parliaments do not even dare to mention this figure, because it is really shameful to say in company that an Estonian pensioner receives so little money. That's why I say it's very, very sad. Although the guardian of the budget said that this budget was not as bad or ugly at all as the members of the opposition appreciated it. In fact, this budget is really very poor when we look at it from an old man's point of view. There's nothing to do, we're all gonna get old, and we're gonna have to get used to all this in the future. But I am saddened that the younger company, I mean the politicians of the government coalition who have put together this budget, are so indifferent to their mothers and fathers, grandmothers and grandfathers. I recall the old Estonian folk wisdom: young people did not sit at the lunch table until the old ones were fed in the back chamber. That's the wisdom we can't use anymore. We've forgotten it!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U615	How much more can I get?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U616	I'd love to. We have forgotten these wisdoms. There's no way that's gonna decorate us. Perhaps when these speeches are made here every year, younger parliamentarians and government begin to come to their senses, and they start to think that they could put more money in it. If we look back 20 years, I would say that all these years we have paid the older generation about a third less money than the country would have been able to. The rest of this money has just been put in young men's pockets and basically wasted. [[S. Sester's call from the floor.]] I've been given extra time! See you in the morning, Mr. Sester! We enjoyed your speech for a long time. We need to start respecting that company. Given that we have never paid these people as much money as the country could possibly have, we should change policies. First, you should pay the bills to the older company. Because let us not forget that the country in which we live today, this Republic of Estonia, however, is built on the foundation built by our mothers and fathers, our current pensioners. So I wish you luck! May we continue to strive to honor the older company!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U617	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U618	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U619	Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Alliku, please! A procedural question, Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U620	Thank you. You have the right idea. This is impossible under our Home and Working Procedures Act. It is possible to get five minutes and three minutes of extra time. Jaak Alliku Riigikogu speech chair, please! A procedural question, Taavi Clothe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U621	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I really do have a procedural question. Have I missed anything? Is it possible to have up to ten minutes to speak? There has never been such a practice before.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U622	Thank you. There is no such paragraph. It's possible to get five plus three minutes. Jaak Alliku Riigikogu speech chair, please! Please, Igor Gräzin, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U623	Thank you, Mr President. Please tell me under which Rules of Procedure it was possible to give Mr Leng exactly 10 minutes to speak, if the maximum time is five minutes, with an additional period of eight minutes. Is this again some sort of tactical move to further delay this hearing? Which paragraph of the Rules of Procedure does this comply with?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U624	Heimar spoke very nicely and interestingly. I was happy to listen to him on TV. Tell me, please, is it that how many minutes you will be given depends on which party you are! I'll wait until Laine comes, and then I'll tell you 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U625	If, for example, you are a waitress at first reading, you have up to 20 minutes, but if we have negotiations, unfortunately, there is no way. It's possible to get five plus three minutes. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U626	Thank you, Mr President. When eight minutes and 50 seconds had passed, I tried to signal that time had passed. Mr. Lenk said that he could or how he interpreted it. I have a question for you: what led to this transition from time to time, do you have any specific explanation for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U627	Yes, it is. It turns out that when Riigikogu member Heimar Lenk came to the chair, I was based on the fact that he had been given five minutes. In the system, however, he had been put forward for eight minutes. When he asked for extra time, I said yes, please, and he got exactly two minutes of 55 seconds of extra time. It turns out that the cooperation between the President of the sitting and the technical staff did not go exactly. But I was guided by the principle that if the speaker comes to the Riigikogu Chair, he has five minutes. In that case, every time you ask, I give you three minutes of extra time. Jaak Allik, I beg you to speak to the Riigikogu. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U628	An increase of 11% is allowed, with an increase of 0.07% in the amount allocated to the local government for educational expenditure. Thus, the state seems to have hoped to a large extent that the school owners, the local authorities themselves, would find the money for this raise by doing as the Bible page in Vilde's play Pisuhänd, who comes to Vestmann's daughter with his money. To be more precise, the Ministry of Education argues that an increase in teachers' salaries of 11% would require EUR 16 million, of which the state would have allocated EUR 7.5 million or 4,4% as additional money by 2013. Where the money is in the budget, only the Ministry of Education knows that. If we compare, for example, the allocations for public schools directly, then there will also be an increase of only 5.2%, but the number of these schools will still increase next year. This mystery was solved on 1 November when the Ministry of Education received a letter to all the municipalities within whose borders children study in the new Viljandi state gymnasium. In total, 17 municipalities, including Tallinn and Käina, received a letter proposing to participate in the costs of Viljandi State Gymnasium. So much for state gymnasiums, which are now widely promoted by the Ministry. But where does the State intend to find, in any case, EUR 8,5 million? Two thirds, i.e. EUR 3.2 million, of the current funding for continuing training, are planned to be allocated to the salaries of teachers. If the Ministry of Education can really guarantee further training with European money, it would even be acceptable, so we get 11 million. The teachers' wage fund will increase by EUR 0.4 million due to a reduction in unemployment insurance. But at least EUR 5 million still needs to be found somewhere. To this end, it is planned to shift the salaries of support specialists, i.e. special education institutions, social pedagogues and psychologists currently funded by the state, to municipalities. To this end, the distribution of the so-called reserve is also planned as if it had remained hanging on a tree every year. No, this reserve was also distributed between municipalities in two rounds of applications for additional support for redundancy costs, higher salaries due to changes in the number of pupils and the form of study, student homes and school lunches and educational resources, as well as for support for folklore culture training, as well as for the salaries of teachers and pharmacists. Such money is certainly needed next year, and it is meant to be brought to the hands of the local governments as well. Finally, the government has also looked at EUR 3.2 million, which is included in the current bounty as an investment component. This is the money that was generated in 2004 with the grand promises made by the then Minister of Education Maimets and Chairman of the RKAS Olari Taali programme 'Schools Order!' the need for municipalities to borrow with the aid of the investment component and to enter into expensive lease contracts with the RKAS. This money was reduced five times in 2008 and is now being taken away at all. Let the silly self-government who believed pay back the loan from its own pocket, the city of Viljandi must pay about 60000 euros and Tallinn over 800000. I do not think that the state should behave in financial matters as a matter of fact, depending on which minister is in power. What is interesting here is that there is a minister of the same party in power: one promised, the other took away. So we see that almost half of the promised 11% wage increase is planned to be taken from the local governments' pockets. Of course, neither the Association of Estonian Rural Governments nor the Association of Estonian Cities agree with such a plan. Apparently, the goal is that in March, when the teacher begins to study the real increase in his salary, the Ministry can point the finger at the municipality or the head of the school: we promised, but they, the bastards, will not ensure. Of course, it is naive to hope that teachers' dissatisfaction and new strikes can be prevented in this way. But let us also remember that, in fact, the wage requirement for teachers was 20% last spring, not 11%. The current increase in the government's wage gap between the average wage of the country and the average wage of teachers will not narrow. Stories of teachers' pay promised for 2015, which is supposed to be 20% higher than the national average, appear to be tragic. The Group of the Social Democratic Party proposes to increase the support fund (educational expenditure) by EUR 18.4 million in order to ensure a real 20% increase in teachers' pay. The government is proud that the average tax burden in Estonia will fall to 32.6% in the coming year, to the lowest level in the last five years, and blames the socialists for wanting to raise taxes. No, we don't want to raise taxes. We just want two questions about what sphere of public services, how big the public sector, i.e. education, health care, culture, police, fire services, social welfare, defence forces Estonia needs, and how much they are willing to pay people for it at the same time, so that people can understand that this is actually one question. The money to support the public sector is not growing on trees, it is our own tax money. By making the tax burden one of the lowest in Europe, the government fails to tell the people that this tax burden cannot sustain our current public sector. Then we open the newspaper and we are frustrated that there are two constables left in half the county, or because of the terrible situation in some nursing home, or because they want to shut down some decent primary school, not to mention upper secondary school, or because not only doctors but also nurses are fleeing Estonia. The government pretends that it does not understand that there is one reason for all of this to be the same 32.6% tax burden for which it hopes to be praised and reelected by the people, still to destroy the social sphere of Estonia, but in fact to further destroy the entire Estonian state. It is particularly schizophrenic that the same government, which is proud of the lowest tax rate, presents us with a budget of which nearly 5% has been earmarked for military expenditure, which is one of the highest ratios across Europe. In a situation where all our allies are currently reducing defence costs, the government will add another EUR 20 million to the Ministry of Defence in the coming year to the 60 million increase, which would be enough to meet the teachers' wage bill and still remain, in order not to pay doctors wages by reducing unemployment benefits. We have obviously taken on the Ronald Reagan mission now: to drain Russia with its unbridled increase in defence costs. If anyone wants to play with guns and believes that it is up to the Estonian state to remain on it, let it play, but not in the case of the 32.6% tax burden. In this case, the future of the Estonian state will disappear for other reasons: education, health care, internal security and social welfare. Returning to education now, I am ready to believe that Mr Aaviksoo wants good in both high and upper secondary education with his reforms. But they won't let him do it because there's a lack of money everywhere. So he's forced to do good and cheap at the same time. However, this is impossible, which is why these reforms, as well as next year's budget, will only cause damage, tensions in society will increase and strikes will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U629	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U630	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to stop at the teachers' promised raise. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U631	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U632	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to manage without additional time, focusing on this only amendment, which will not increase any costs, but will reduce the deficit. This is the proposal that we made with Tõnis Lukas: one third, or about 1.8 million euros, to reduce the money from the state budget for political parties. The chairman of the committee, Mr Sester, was not quite precise here, pointing out that this problem falls within the competence of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deal with it. Yes, in view of the future, but according to the law in force, the only law in which this amount can be corrected is the State Budget Act. I would also have explained that to the Committee on Monetary Affairs if I had been invited to do so during the discussion of the proposal. The second argument used here was that there is no precise analysis. It is therefore not known how much it would be right to reduce: perhaps more should be reduced, perhaps less. You see, this precise analysis was also lacking when the funding of political parties from the state budget was tripled in the 2004 budget. Later, it was further increased. However, based on quite basic analysis, it can be said that the political landscape of Estonia was essentially frozen with this step, with the massive funding of the political parties of the Riigikogu, and this is not good. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. The Reform Party is not seen in this Chamber today, but, you see, in the case of the crisis of confidence that has hit them, it would clearly be a step towards dialogue, openness and also recognition of mistakes, which is a good step. I call on the Social Democratic Party to support this proposal because, as I recall, you, in the previous Riigikogu, called for a national debate on the funding of political parties, asking for Mr Jõks and Mr Adams to be experts. Therefore, you should also act on the basis of what Mr Adams has repeatedly said in drawing attention to this problem that the level of funding is disproportionate and must be reduced. I therefore call on the majority of the IRL Group, which has not supported this proposal, to vote in favour of the fact that a conservative party should consider such over-financing, how to say, 'unproportional socialism', which is perhaps in the interests of existing party oligarchies, but certainly not in the interests of society as a whole. To the Centre Party, I cannot give such a good reason why you should support this proposal, but I call on you to do so. And there is no need to take a break before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U633	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair at Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U634	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a little scrapper in front of me because I was going to talk about child support, but it looks like all the right and smart things have already been said by my colleagues. For this, I would like to thank everyone who spoke on this subject. But the subject of child poverty is so wide and deep that something can still be added. I'm trying somehow to put this thing so I can see the bell so I can't accidentally reprimand. I want to tell you (if this talk seems too numerical to you, then you can review it later in the verbatim) about how child poverty is assessed in other countries that we are trying to resemble, but which we are still not similar to when we adopt laws such as the so-called 'need-based' child benefit law. Indeed, I would like to introduce to you the criteria on which the UNICEF assesses child poverty. The total number of these criteria is 14. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that according to UNICEF's methodology, a child who has two or more negative responses to the so-called 'little form' is considered poor. Thus, the following criteria must be guaranteed for the child. First, three meals a day. Secondly, at least one meal a day containing meat, fish, chicken or vegetarian alternatives. Third, fresh fruit and vegetables every day. Fourthly, books of age and children's knowledge at home. The textbooks are not part of such books, since the textbooks are not meant for children to enjoy or play, but for learning or work. Fifthly, outdoor hobbies: bicycle, roller skates, etc. Sixth, regular hobby: swimming, playing musical instruments, etc. At this point, it would be fitting to recall that a few years, or even four years ago, if my memory did not deceive me during the crisis, it happened that support for children's sport somehow disappeared from the responsibilities of both local authorities and the state. The result is that children's sport in Estonia is no longer financed. So on this point, we look kind of ugly. Seventh, at least one indoor toy per child, including educational toys for young children: blocks, board games, computer games, etc. Eight, money to participate in paid school trips and events. Ninth, the child must have a quiet, large enough place with sufficient light to study at home. Tenth, the child must have a separate Internet connection. Eleventh, new clothes. This means that a child, even a third child in a family, must not have only old clothes left by his older siblings. He still has to have new things, not only bought from second hand. Twelveth, two pairs of matching shoes, including one pair, suitable for every weather. Thirteenth, the opportunity to invite friends over to play and eat from time to time. This is not a minor criterion. I believe that each of us has at least two or three familiar children who never invite our children or grandchildren to visit because they are ashamed to show their home, let alone eat. By fourteenth, the child must have the opportunity to celebrate festive events: birthdays, name days, religious events, etc. In view of all this (if any of you refer to the birds), I would remind you that two negative responses mean that the child is poor. In Estonia, for some reason, we think that the child is poor when his father earns 280 euros a month, his mother earns 140 euros a month and he retains 84 euros a month.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U635	And in that case, if the parents of that child go to the Social Welfare Department and take evidence that their income is just as high or a little less than that, they may receive EUR 9 59 cents. We expect this money to help our children out of poverty. That is a very interesting point of view. Finally, I will also talk about the results of the study. 29 countries participated in this UNICEF survey last year and Estonia is ranked 19. If we now take the trend of growth, Iceland will take the lead in the wealth of the children. There are 0.9% of poor children who do not have two of these criteria. The next one is Sweden - 1.3%, then Norway - 1.9%, Finland - 2.5%, Denmark - 2.6% and Holland - 2.7%. The eighth place is Luxembourg - 4,4%, then Ireland - 4.9%, Great Britain - 5.5%, Cyprus - 7% and Spain - 8.1%. The thirteenth is Slovenia, the fourteenth is Austria, the Czech Republic 8.8%, Germany 8.8%, Malta 8.9%, Belgium 9.1% and France 10.1%. Estonia is, I'm sorry, I accidentally lied to 20th place. We have 12.4% poor children. However, when we talk to experts, it becomes clear that we are relatively high because we have a compulsory e-school. This means that every child has no choice but to access the Internet. If it weren't for you, our score would fall. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in other countries where children are poorer than ours, such as Italy, Greece, Portugal, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania, there is a slightly warmer climate. This means that if the child does not have, for example, warm clothes, it may not be fatal to his or her health. All this long talk is that I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, however, to support the Central Party's proposal to triple child support, regardless of whether the parents of our children live in relative, absolute or any other poverty, because in fact, we do not have very rich people in Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U636	Would you like more time? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U637	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask for Eldar Efendiev next! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U638	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I bring before you a problem that is quite well known to you, and even more so, there are few politicians who do not use this area in one way or another. I want to talk about the problem of kindergartens, because once again this very important area of our lives has not been seriously reflected in the country's draft budget for the coming year. There is no news that most kindergartens are in the hands of local governments, and local authorities have to take care of them and manage them. It is also no secret what the difficulties faced by local authorities are especially after reducing the income or income base of local authorities. It can be said that permanently methods are used to impose additional responsibilities on local governments, but they are somehow forgotten to link them to cover or resources. This is not only a question of finding the means to care for the kindergarten, but also of complying with the regulations of fire, sanitation and other areas. The amounts relating to compliance with these injunctions are not small. Where do you get these resources? There is also a lack of resources to raise the salaries of kindergarten teachers. This is an additional problem where we will take good professionals to kindergartens in the near future. It turns out that many politicians like to talk about the future of Estonia and the children in this regard, but it is strange that if there is a chance to develop kindergartens, where the same children are present, our future, where they are cared for all day, they are prepared for school and social life, where children acquire cultural and pre-knowledge from the world, then these politicians will remain silent. But just in turns. Many kindergartens need renovation and this is not a secret. In addition, new standards need to be met by restructuring kindergarten facilities, while there are no full resources available. As I said earlier, the fire and sanitation inspectorate are making precepts, norms and conditions change, with no full resources for this once again. It can be said that, as always, there are no means to cover the need to comply with these regulations in the case of changes to standards and, therefore, in the case of injunctions. This is practically the case, and I will give you a small example. The fire department comes in and says the doors need to be changed, the kindergarten's gonna do it. After that, there's another precept, something needs to be done with the windows. All right, the windows are fine. Then the ladders need to be dealt with. They come up with something almost every year. If it were meant to be a long-term project, it might be possible to plan everything, but it turns out it's very difficult to plan, because the precepts come year by year. There is another area of concern here. Currently, playgrounds and fixed structures do not meet the new conditions. Need the means to take these constructions down again with the problem. What do we do now? New resources should be put in place, but of course there are no full resources for this. And what's the situation? I met with kindergarten managers. Some kindergarten managers came up with the view that if there is no playground, then there is no problem. Is this the right position and solution to the problem? The pay of kindergarten teachers is spoken of a long time ago and a lot, but only before the budgets are worked out. If we want professionals dealing with our children, there is quite a short period of time left to keep current professionals in kindergarten and prepare for the younger generation. If we do not make any moves to appreciate the work of kindergarten teachers, then there may be a crisis, not in the long run. Other specialists in kindergarten, such as logo beets, are also spoken of quite a long time ago, but this issue has still not been resolved. Local authorities do not have enough resources, the state keeps itself out of the problem to do. It is also necessary to raise the question of studying Estonian in Russian kindergartens. Like most politicians, I repeat: Estonian language learning should begin in kindergarten. But the limited burden of an Estonian language teacher does not allow full-scale work in one kindergarten and he must look outside for work. For several years now, we have raised this question, but there is still no solution. I would also like to inform you of the problems of day care managers. Kindergarten managers are responsible for almost everything and everyone, but they have practically no resources to do anything. Really, they're hostages to the situation. Of course, it is a very sad situation when they are willing to do something, but there is no way to do anything. It doesn't mean the government doesn't do anything. That's not right, he does. For example, some kindergartens have carried out language immersion projects, done excellent work with local governments in renovating and supplying equipment, and paid extra fees to Estonian language teachers for immersion. But these kind of kindergartens are one, two, three, and others see how it could be, but it's more like a dream. This discussion of the Ida-Virumaa development plan, where we offered assistance to the government, was unfortunately not effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U639	Thank you very much. And I'm gonna ask Kalev Kallo for a chair! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U640	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Again, we have come to discuss one of the most important draft laws of the year in the life of the country, which is the present draft state budget law for 2013. Year after year, these drafts have become increasingly cynical and even sadistic. The draft is clearly drawn up on the basis of the creed of the Minister of Finance, that they do not understand anything in the Riigikogu anyway and do not understand anything. In many respects, there is no clear comparison with last year's figures. The Minister of Finance confirmed that this is due to the modified structure of the budget and therefore no comparison is possible. You wouldn't find any more out of this budget, softly speaking, if you didn't know the other drafts floating around where they came out. Thanks to the draft law on maritime safety, we know that EUR 10 million has been added to the revenue side, at the cost of rising water charges for shipping companies up to six times. We know that somewhere there is a bill that exempts public authorities from land tax, thus leaving local authorities without a revenue base that is not intended to be compensated, at a time when local authorities' budgets are put together and on their way to councils. One of the few things you do not want to fight is tax holes and tax fraud. The Ministry of Finance and his minister are out of breath, because tax fraudsters are not the obedient Estonian people, who are having new and new additional fees imposed on them and suffer in silence while still standing. Taxholes are cared for by those who, even we think, are hard and hard on the Minister of Finance to say that they don't understand anything there. They already know how to handle it. At the recent conference of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the following data on taxes lost by the state were recorded. Of course, value added tax (VAT) was lost in 2011, amounting to EUR 258,3 million, or 56% of the tax losses. Next: social tax of 67.5 million; personal income tax of 55.8 million; tobacco excise duty of 43.8 million; fuel excise duty of 29,8 million; alcohol duty of 10,5 million euros. A total of EUR 465.7 million has been lost. If only 2% of the fraudsters were to be removed, the Estonian maritime transit cluster would not need to be strangled with nearly six times the increase in water charges in order to get an additional 10 million into the budget. There are, of course, enough problems in the area of tax collection. A hundred percent of tax receipts will never be achieved in any country, but in Estonia, the amount missed is too high. There is a specific problem for tax debtors: it is estimated that up to 1000 debtors, including up to 200 shadows. Nearly 2 800 indebted companies, with a tax debt of nearly EUR 144 million, are a major problem. The members of the management board do not apply for bankruptcy but set up a new company. It's complicated to prove a transition. The Tax and Customs Board has proposed in this respect a business or business ban on bankruptcy masters, if you could call them that. There is also the so-called "matching" of VAT returns. This suspicion exists in up to 14% of companies with a total taxable turnover of almost a quarter of the total turnover of the company but with a VAT rate of 0.1%. In order to ensure that there is no doubt in the examples I have given that I have come up with them, after all, the Minister of Finance loves to ask that from where you read it, I can assure you that these examples have already been taken from the presentation already heard at the above-mentioned conference of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association. The rapporteur was Egon Veermäe, who was at the time acting Director General of the Tax and Customs Board. The data are therefore fully reliable. Tax officials need a lot of effort to get 2% or 10 million out of nearly EUR 500 million. Unfortunately, we have to admit, I don't think the government wants that much. Why else do we hear about the reduction in the number of tax officials under the so-called 'work restructuring label'? Why else would we still hear about freezing wages? Why are the wages of tax officials still cut in times of crisis? It's like the minister doesn't know the figures above, but I don't think so. It is likely to be a slouch of thought, because it is easier for an honest taxpayer to obtain an additional tax or a reward, after all, he is honest and always pays when required. In one conversation on this subject, we were talking about the wages of the same tax officials, and the question arose as to how they were eager to do this work for the wages they were paid. There was a rhetorical response in the air that was likely out of curiosity. At one meeting in the Riigikogu, the previous Director General of the Tax and Customs Board, Enriko Aav, said that one euro placed in the tax office will bring back ten euros. Based on this knowledge, the Group of the Estonian Central Party decided to come to the aid of the Government and the Ministry of Finance and proposed an amendment to the draft State Budget Act, increasing the labour and management costs of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board by 5 million euros. In the list of amendments, this proposal shall be numbered 81. This should help to bring an additional EUR 50 million into the budget, i.e. net revenue of EUR 45 million, if you could say so. You shouldn't cry about the source of cover here, 'cause that money's gonna come back ten times. We hope that everyone who is concerned about the revenue of the state budget and who does not have familiar tax fraudsters whom they want to protect will vote in favour of our amendment in the early hours of the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U641	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask for a speech chair next to the Valeri Korb! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U642	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, this year's draft state budget is no different from those we discussed a year or two ago, only the figures are different. Every year we receive less and less written information to discuss in the draft submitted. I mean too little. Soon we will be in a situation where the state budget consists of two numbers, practically two lines: costs and revenues. It is awkward to say, but some local governments' budgets have been written down more thoroughly and transparently. I don't think experienced Treasury officials know how to do this job. I mean, there are more political decisions back here. I don't understand what it is to be afraid of, or there's something here that ambassadors, journalists and people shouldn't know about. Of course, this situation raises a number of questions addressed to our Minister for Finance and the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. These were a few thoughts on budget setting. Now, the contents of the budget. One issue that is certainly linked to the state budget (I will give a bit of my opinion) concerns the lives of people with disabilities. We know that, unfortunately, every year the number of people with disabilities is increasing. Today this figure is within 120,000, which represents more than 9% of the population. We cannot forget that they are predominantly elderly people. More than 60% of these people are older than 63 years, just over a third, or 35% of them are of working age, and 6% are under 17 years of age. We can read that under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the concept of persons with disabilities includes persons who suffer long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairment, which, in conjunction with various obstacles, may hinder their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others. Both the state and local authorities have an important role to play in social welfare and social security for people with disabilities. Of course, this work requires financial support, a contribution for which the first violin is in the hands of the state. The provision of social services and the payment of social support are financed from the state budget and the local government budget. Much has already been said about the possibilities of local government. Practically every year, the state gives a so-called gift that is borne by the local government. The disability pension is paid to people in the event of permanent incapacity for work of 40% and 100%. This pension money is small and it is safe to say that people do not know how to take the next steps with this money. Last Monday, when we were discussing inquiries in this Chamber, we talked about the fact that in 2000, 12 years ago, the Minister of Social Affairs signed a regulation on the basis of which people who have been identified as having a capacity for work since 40% or who have been defined as having a disability are entitled to purchase technical equipment on preferential terms. In their inquiry, our colleagues wrote: "Since the funds allocated by the state are insufficient, there has been a situation where the increase in the number of people entitled to benefits, as well as the increase in the prices of technical assistance instruments, do not allow or guarantee the realisation of the rights of those in need of assistance under the Regulation. People wait in long queues for vitally needed tools to be provided, which, in turn, worsens their daily lives and does not guarantee them a decent life. " The state pays social security to a disabled person, but it has extra expenses because of its disability. For example, a disabled person needs some equipment, care, rehabilitation or additional expenses related to transport, work or study. Now, some numbers. As we recall, the severity of the trees is three: deep, severe and medium disability. In the case of deep disability, if the person's daily activity or participation in society is completely impeded, the allowance is currently EUR 40.9. In the case of severe disability, where the person's daily activity or participation in society is limited, the allowance shall be EUR 26,8. In the case of medium-term disability, where the person's daily activity or participation in society is difficult, the allowance shall be EUR 12.7. People with disabilities have every cent at their expense, especially in recent years. The unarmed eye shows super-increases in prices. I don't think anyone talks louder about the prices of electricity, heat and water. Once you go to the pharmacy and see what happens at the prices of medicines, the desire to visit it for a second time will disappear. Special attention is needed for people with disabilities, as their costs are considerably higher than for ordinary people. Do we know how people with special needs live? Estonia needs a real country strategy that relates to almost one in ten people living in our country. And this strategy must not remain on paper, but must be followed by practical actions and financial cover. People with disabilities must have equal opportunities to participate in society and must be guaranteed decent living. Unfortunately, today we are thinking more about buying weapons than about ensuring a decent life for people with disabilities. It is safe to say that people with disabilities are once again left alone with their problems, including this budget. This money, which is a plus sign in the 2013 budget, does not significantly solve the situation with regard to our people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U643	Thank you very much. Now, please, the knight of Karel's speech chair! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U644	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The State Forest Management Centre is the keeper, protector and manager of state-owned forests and other diverse and rich natural communities, who own nearly 40% of Estonian forests. Therefore, RMK is the largest forest owner in Estonia. As a profit-making state agency, it is one of the most important tasks of the state in managing forest income and ensuring the stability of the timber market as the largest forest owner. Equally important are RMK's activities, which do not directly generate economic income, but are even more important in managing our national resource, perhaps by creating free recreation facilities, performing the necessary maintenance activities in nature conservation, mapping heritage sites, supporting forestry education, promoting nature education, maintaining forest roads and drainage systems, etc. RMK's obligation is to ensure more forest regeneration and better quality compared to the current forest that is being cut. This means creating a new generation of forests and maintaining a young forest. Today, we can proudly regard ourselves as a forest nation, as 3,000 trees grow in our forests for every Estonian. Despite Estonia being one of the world's most forested countries, where the forest is covered by nearly half of our land area, or 2.2 million hectares, we should pay more attention to forest building and informed forest growth, i.e. forest cultivation and maintenance. In addition to many of the perks and wounds, the existence of which is certainly energy imperative, our forest industry needs sufficiently high-quality pine trees, spruces and lids. The topic of whether enough pine and spruce crops are being built in Estonia and whether they are being maintained enough to obtain high environmental and economic values in the future needs to be analysed separately. Nor must the education of society in forestry be neglected. The sustainability and quality of Estonian forestry must be assessed on the basis of the establishment and maintenance of young forests and not on the basis of cutting so mature forests. Against this background, the question arises as to why the State, under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, has started to undermine the competitiveness of the State Forest Management Centre. As a result of public policy, RMK has been excluded from the 2011 budget for ownership income and income tax of EUR 26 million, for EUR 45,8 million in 2012. The 2013 budget is initially planned at EUR 17.9 million. In total, it amounts to EUR 89.7 million, or more than EEK 1.4 billion. As a result of such manoeuvres, the government has taken the current account of the state company substantially close to zero. On the other hand, the 2013 draft state budget provides for a return to RMK of EUR 20 million, to be paid by 31 January 2014. Of course, the State will generate additional revenue from its interest rates. In short, the state cleans the account of the state company in order to maintain the budget balance, and with the other hand, RMK provides revolving loans for one year so that the company's economic activity does not stop, earning additional interest income on it. Yeah, well, the state can afford anything as owner. But can the situation be said about the prudent management of state property? "The manager of state assets is obliged to manage state assets in a purposeful, rational, sustainable and prudent manner," states § 8 (1) of the State Assets Act. "In carrying out any acts or transactions involving state assets, the manager of state assets must be guided by the principle of increasing the benefits and avoiding the losses which the State may incur from these acts or transactions," states §8 (4) of the State Assets Act. As of the end of 2010, the State Forest Management Centre used nearly 1.1 million hectares of land, of which 842000 hectares were covered by the forest. The rest was largely made up of swamps and bogs, and to a small extent other natural communities. 8115 kilometres of forest roads have been built to serve this vast area of land. As the forest land in Estonia is predominantly too wet, land improvement systems of 440000 hectares have been established in the state forest. In view of the average life span of the forest road of 20 years and the 30 years of the forest improvement system, approximately 400 kilometres of roads and 15000 hectares of drainage systems should be reconstructed each year. The vast majority of roads and drainage networks have been built between 1960 and 1980 or are even older, so most of them have now reached reconstruction age. Mostly due to the lack of money, but also due to the lack of design and construction capacity, the average annual renovation of 400 kilometres of forest roads and 5 000 hectares of land improvement systems has been made in recent decades. Although the pace of reconstruction and construction has increased in recent years, it is clear that without increasing volumes, the productivity of forest land will start to decline and the quantity of timber will decrease, and the revenue of the state will decrease accordingly. It is estimated that in the next 10 years, the failure to do the necessary forest improvement will reduce the cutting capacity of the state forest by one third, from the current three million cubic metres to two million. In the same rhythm, the economic performance of the State Forest Management Centre itself falls. In addition, the reduction in the added value of wood processing and its impact on the economy must be taken into account. The country should be more aware of the added value of wood processing. The state must not aim at collecting the maximum tax on the timber sales revenue of the forest owner into the state budget. Instead, the state should encourage the unhindered production of timber from mature forests and stands during the harvesting cycle. The main revenue for the Treasury must come through wood processing, sawing and furniture industries, transport, trade, etc. The State Forest Management Centre must have sufficient resources to build, grow, maintain and protect forests, as well as to maintain forest roads, maintain forest drainage networks, rest economy etc. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U645	Thank you very much. Next, please speak to Lauri Laas! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U646	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike Sven Sester, I find that there is no reason for us to be proud or content about this bill. Firstly, there are many mistakes in this draft that we are trying to correct with our amendments. But what bothers me most is the fact that the Government of the Republic has not, for its part, provided relief for the price increase resulting from the opening up of the electricity market. The electricity market, which will open from 1 January next year, will hit hard Estonian people. For example, if the consumer joins the six-month fixed-price contract of Eesti Energia, his basic electricity tariff will rise from the current 3.15 euro cent to 4.78 euro cent. This represents a 52% increase in the basic tariff. Initially, this increase had to be 58%, but the social pressure has managed to control the profit desire of Eesti Energia a little. Add here the price increase that has already become the routine for Elering, managed by Taavi Veskimäe, 13.3%, then almost 20% more money will be sucked out of the consumer's pocket in the form of electricity bills than this year. Of course, money can be squeezed out of those who still have it in their pockets. Many families, however, have already had to make decisions that have usually been taken during war and leave their homes behind in the face of the fastest price increase in Europe. For example, in the November 2nd reporter news story, we were told how people who heat their houses with electricity have to sell their homes from the new year for the price of a sandwich because they can no longer heat or support them. Is this the kind of situation where people have to run away from crazy price increases from their homes, is it Juhan Parts and Ken-Mart Vaher's policy of "Home expenses down"? While the transition to the open market has been known long in advance, Juhan Parts' statement following the publication of the new price list of Eesti Energia was more than bizarre. To claim that the Minister of Economic Affairs, whose administration belongs to Eesti Energia, did not know so much about the increase in prices and to say that the sad story (his words) is a clear, dim and pure fool playing. Tragic is the current government's view of the problems caused by the increase in electricity prices. This is an excellent reflection of the government's disregard for its people. The government's view is that electricity prices will develop next year on the electricity market, and they will be unable to do anything about it. Indeed, the price of electricity on the stock market cannot really be changed by the government. Although the question arises as to why it was necessary to climb the stock market right now, at an economically difficult time for the Estonian people to know what was involved. In so doing, many Member States of the European Union still offer regulated electricity to their home consumers. At the same time, in the case of an open market, the government will have the opportunity to alleviate the situation of people if they so wish. For example, each person's electric bill has components that can be regulated by the government. Once again, if the government wants to, it can do a lot for people. The consumer's electricity bill consists of a basic electricity tariff, a network service fee, a renewable energy fee, an electricity excise duty and VAT. Paradoxically, about two thirds of a person's electricity bill is, in fact, directly or indirectly under state control. Only one third of the electricity bill is the part that the State cannot control, and that is the basic electricity tariff. It would be possible for the State to have the Competition Authority more closely monitor Elering's activities in determining the price of the network service. Instead, the Competition Authority is an obedient institution which only formally controls the justification of the price increase. It is worth only a few monopolies to apply for an increase in prices to the Competition Authority, there is immediate authorisation to raise the price, and the people will have to scrub their wallets again. Given how much Elering has been increasing network charges in recent years, we should have gold cables running in the ground. A long time ago, it would be time for the National Audit Office to take down Elering's revenue and expenditure side. I hear that the board of this company is either unable or unwilling to exercise control over the substance, and deciding on the large sums of money that we all own is the property of a small company. The government could also reduce excise duties on electricity, including VAT. However, none of these measures will be used to mitigate the rise in electricity prices for consumers. Clearly, the coalition is more concerned about Greece's livelihood than its own people. The government of Andrus Ansip has turned Estonia into a testing laboratory where the limits of the suffering and existence of the Estonian people are being tested. Unlike the government coalition, the fate of the Estonian people matters to the Centre Party. The Central Party of the Riigikogu has repeatedly proposed a draft aimed at mitigating the transition to a fully open electricity market system in 2013. If the bill was adopted as a law, the real victory of the Estonian average household would be 15 euros next year. By reducing the electricity excise duty to the minimum allowed in the European Union, to EUR 1 per megawatt-hour, we can, by acting in a legislative way, soften the price increase that is due to the opening-up of the electricity market for domestic consumers from 1 January in the Riigikogu. The Central Party Group has been targeting the risks of opening up the electricity market and the resulting higher electricity prices for over a year and a half. It is recalled that from 1 April 2011, the electricity market was opened to large customers. We saw that for those companies whose consumption was higher than two gigawatt-hours, buying electricity on the stock market resulted in an increase of almost 50%. We have met the Director General of the Competition Authority, Märt Ots, who dared to say already a year and a half ago that the process of transferring Nordic prices to Estonian consumers will inevitably begin on 1 January 2013. But what has the government done at the same time? In addition to voting on the drafts, only a great silence has been heard by the government. Rather, the hand has been widened and it has been said that the market regulates itself and the government does not have to do anything. Once again, the fate of the Greek people matters more to the government than to its own people. We cannot in any way support a state budget that does not take our own people into account. There is no solution in this state budget to mitigate the rise in electricity prices. Dear coalition ambassadors, there is no one to turn to, why is that? I would remind you that electricity is not a luxury commodity in our climate zones, and people should not be pressured in an area where they have no choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U647	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask for a speech chair next in Mailis Reps! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U648	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Today, the question of teachers' salaries has already been raised repeatedly in the round of questions and answers. And rightly so, because the confusion around teachers' salaries in the 2013 budget clearly shows how much there can actually be in the implementation of the next year's budget. Why do I dare say "deception"? For teachers, Mr Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister for Education and Science, has promised that the minimum wage rates will rise by 11%, and in addition, every school will receive 20% extra money, for which it is possible to decide within the school who will be paid exactly more or less extra money. However, if we look at the figures in the 2013 state budget, it is clear that in reality, the increase in teachers' salaries is 4.7%. Next, we can also look at the Minister for Education and Research's signal that next year the minimum rates for teachers' pay will be raised to EUR 715 and a minimum threshold will be set. As a result, we can clearly conclude, which has now been understood by most teachers, that a junior teacher may indeed have a considerable wage increase, but it is not noted that there are very few teachers in Estonia who today may call themselves a junior teacher. In general, when a person has gone to school after university studies, usually in a year or two, he or she also reaches a teaching position. In the case of a teacher who is subject to a minimum teacher's salary and who is supposed to increase significantly in the following year, even 11%, but who is currently receiving, for example, an extra fee for the instruction of the circles, the management of the choir, or the work of the class manager, all the additional costs of education will be taken into account in the next year for the teachers' payroll fund. Really, there is no guarantee that he will, for example, be paid a grade manager's fee at all. Moreover, when looking at the decisions or proposals of the so-called Teacher Appreciation Commission, which have already been written into the new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in circulation, it has made it very clear to teachers that the bonuses currently foreseen for choir management, preparation for olympiads, repairing notebooks or dealing with children with special needs will be part of a single payroll fund. The teacher negotiates with his employer, or schoolmaster, and negotiates what his salary numbers and workload will be. Accordingly, for example, class management or recreational activities are actually included in their working hours. For example, this teacher, who is working today with a 22-hour load and also leading the class, can achieve a 20-hour load in the negotiations. Let's see what it's gonna look like in schools when there's no extra money and there's nowhere to come. It's the story that we're suddenly left with money in all the schools because of the drop in the number of children, in fact, the school people know a long time ago that this is not the case in reality. Teachers actually have two concerns. The first is that when class managers' fees are lost, it takes seriously the leading class that emerges in addition to the so-called burden. Social problems in school are increasingly acute. The second and very painful problem, which is covered by a major debate, is that if, next year, all education funds are to be transferred to the so-called payroll fund, i.e. the second part of the salary increase, all the other support services: logopaedics, school psychologists, social pedagogues, special needs teachers will suffer. With the current number of children, the percentage of children with special educational needs who need additional support for social reasons is increasing in our school. They may need support because their parents work very far from home or in another country, and they need support systems to continue at a normal textbook pace. If, in this context, it is unclear what will become of the whole support system from 2013, there is more than one reason for teachers' concern. What can we say in summary? If next year's budget stays with today's figures, the roller roller will roll on, then the disappointment of teachers will only grow. In a good case, we see teachers who express their disappointment with perhaps a strike or step out. Worst case, the teachers give up, leave school, and the question arises of whom we will see in school and class the day after tomorrow. Can there really be a situation where schools are closed not only because of the shortage of children but also because of the lack of teachers? In the second case, we are seeing more and more of these proposals, which, unfortunately, have already partly been made by the Minister of Education and Research, so that the school and class can come from people who have not graduated from higher education, gaining a teaching profession. They are otherwise nice people or, as has been said in kindergartens, they love children and are good to children, so they are also good to work in kindergartens. The next step, maybe in school? When we recalculate everything into money, we calculate that, for example, we do not have the opportunity to support our near-home school, there is no way to do one, the other or the third, there is a question that we want from our country at all. This arrogant attitude, the failure to listen to the people and, for example, the lack of evaluation of the very good work of teachers, may happen that these negative predictions that very few educated people will soon be here are not utopia anymore, but a topic that we need to discuss seriously here in the Riigikogu at some point. Let's hope these theories don't work and we're really starting to appreciate the teacher's work before the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U649	Thank you very much. I'll have Marika Tuus-Laul next! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U650	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! In the autumn of the transfer of the state budget, government rhetoric indicated that this was a draft propaganda for sharing something with everyone before the elections. Today, however, we have reached again the budget for raising consumption taxes, withdrawing promises and redefining internal resources. The government was even able to benefit from a strike by doctors and nurses, thus justifying a high increase in the number of visits and bed-day fees for patients. According to the Doctors' Association, this is a shameless lie by Pevkur, because the agreement that stopped the strike says that money comes from the state budget and the health insurance fund to meet the medical demands, not from the patients' pockets. Of course, the government played an unpopular proposal for a hospital union in the mouth. The minister and the entire government did not have the courage to say that, with the current funding, Estonia's health care has not been sustainable for years, as the World Health Organisation (WHO) has repeatedly said. So, actually, a long time ago, there was a plan to increase the patient's own contribution, to do some cosmetic repairs and to tick a little further. Hanno Pevkur's claim that the increase in the salaries of ambulances and medical residents will reduce the increase in unemployment benefit already authorised in the state budget from EUR 145 to EUR 101 has been equally vile. They say those bad strikers are responsible again. But I recall that raising unemployment benefit to half the minimum wage was already in the way of the government in 2009, when, as you remember, this agreement was simply postponed. Indeed, our government allies are very good at thinning the country and peeling people with low incomes. At the same time, there is a pattern of inadequacy in securing social guarantees, reducing poverty, increasing income support and creating jobs. And how skillfully the drums are to bounce welfare growth and sound finances! Many voters fall victim to such propaganda tricks, even though the extra euro promised in the wallet does not come and get empty hands. There are, and still are, those in Estonia who have been victims of the PR tricks of state fathers and believe in the reform of child benefits, free higher education, long-awaited wage increases for teachers and extensive education reform. I suggest these people start reading between the lines. This means, for example, that education reform must mean the closure of rural schools, free higher education can be enjoyed by the rich, who do not have to work alongside the school, and who can collect credits, the state only gives a finger to the teachers' declared wage increase, and the rest must be found by the municipalities themselves. With one hand more will be given, with the other hand the additional fees for teachers will be abolished. And, of course, there's no more money to maintain schools, let alone school food, that's to say, a little bit more. Just read between the lines that there will be no reform of children's benefits. Believe me, general child benefit does not increase by one cent. If the family is not below the poverty line, it will continue to receive EUR 19, as it has for many years. That money's still frozen. In order to receive more child support, the family must go on record several times a year to prove that it is really very, very poor and living below the poverty line, or that it is a family with many children. The state even categorizes children and receives support from basically alms patrons. There's only demagogy, there's only slogans. "Pension is bound to rise!" They're calling us, but it's rising by 5% instead of the legal 6.36%. And by the way, last year's average pension fell over many years. The government and Minister Parts don't care about people. Finland, Sweden and other European countries do not leave people market-styled in the electricity market. According to the European Electricity Industry Association (EURELECTRIC), as many as 19 of the 27 Member States regulated the prices of electricity from households. Domestic consumers were treated as vulnerable consumers. However, we are completely slashed with tariff prices, network charges, maximum excise duties and VAT, without taking into account, once again, that a person with a lower income pays off most of his or her income than a person with a higher income. The slogan "Home expenses down," with which a party of the government union gathered votes in the elections, has long been on the side of a humour classic thief, unfortunately, this black humour. The same has happened with the abolition of the land tax, where municipalities are forced to increase the land tax to other persons, including those exempt from the land tax, in so far as they exceed two hectares of land under the land tax exemption. Still, the rhetoric of the government union is that there is no money. At the same time, we have a regime under which foreign corporations have removed hundreds of millions of euros from Estonia tax-free and paid taxes in the mother country. For example, the net profit of the Hansapank Group was 400 million euros last year, of which the Estonian state received only 2 million, or half a percent. The increase in the state's equity of Eesti Energia is also completely incomprehensible, and the increase in the defence budget by 6% seems inappropriate in the context of the reduction of internal defence capabilities. We have enough money to give it to the major commercial banks in the world, who went a long way in lending to Greece, but there is no money to raise income support. According to the Minister of Social Affairs, it is not known when this support could rise. The United States has still set an example for us, and we have always supported their foreign policy without consideration. However, they do not want to hear or see how the country's economy is being revived and what the tax system is. Yes, this country really has a high debt and a relatively complex tax system, but they are not afraid to take more taxes from those who have brought together more wealth. Indeed, in the light of all this, one might ask whose interests the current Estonian government serves and whose interests it serves in the budget put together for the following year. Are the interests of the Estonian people, or are they the interests of those whose names and pictures are printed on the seventh page of Äripäev on 9 November? Perhaps, as they say, who pays will also order music. I think that the government, which arrogantly wants to profit from price increases and does not see people being helped, needs to be replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U651	Next, please speak to Ester Tuiksoo! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U652	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The technical service needs a break to change the date. That's why the manager takes a technical break, five minutes. The hearing will continue on a new date and no call sign will come. We'll proceed in five minutes, orienteously at 00:03.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U653	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in this Chamber and probably those who are in the role of a television viewer! Today, many concerns have been expressed from this remote control, and sometimes when I listen to previous speakers, it seems that the concerns that I am here today are relatively small, but still important, especially for the Estonian public. Reading the draft Estonian state budget law for 2013, it is sad to see how the budget producers (government) underestimate the activities that are relevant to Estonia. One such area is certainly Estonia's Food, which has now become an all-Estonian movement from the project. The second is also a less important area for the government, which is crucial for Estonia, but it is the move of Kodukant, the biggest leader of our regional policy in rural areas, especially villages. The draft State Budget Act 2013 before us never mentions Estonian Food-related activities. It has been really difficult for us to find it in a little bit from the budget of EUR 344 million from the Ministry of Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture told us in the Committee on Rural Affairs in response to the question of which budget line has the amounts for the Estonian Food project, that there is still something under the lines. He promised to inform us more about this later, but unfortunately neither the Minister nor his advisers have yet found an opportunity to do so. Estonian Food has a long history, almost as long as our young Estonian country. There is nothing to do, but the thing is that since 1997 the project has been slightly supported, later more, in 2004-2007 quite actively (15000 kroons), but then the time stopped when the state looked at it. The movement of Estonian Food, of course, continued to live its life, which is quite right, it has got in motion, yet this project must have the support of the state. It is regrettable that the project is fragmented and lacks the necessary information for consumers that the state should disseminate. As I have already mentioned, this project is coordinated by the Ministry of Agriculture, but financial support has decreased year after year. Let's just say that the claim that the sector itself has to be able to carry its own project is, in some respects, right, of course; people already have the competence and the skills to do it in essence. But what should be more important for the Estonian agricultural sector, especially the Ministry of Agriculture, than food produced on its own land, from the field to the table and informing the consumer about it? This is also important for national security, not to mention daily market competition with food producers in other countries. I can tell you with certainty (I have said quite a lot about this very remote area) that a similar project is supported by the majority of the countries of the European Union, both old and new. The Estonian tourism and local food support group was formed in the Riigikogu in May this year. I was sincerely happy about this step, and I was very much counting on our good colleagues, who are just sitting on the side of the coalition. This group of support consists of 25 people, and it is quite a large support group, so I thought that, as this interest is so great, there are also a few lines of value for Estonian agricultural production in the state budget. It does not matter whether agricultural production moves through trade or catering to the consumer's table. We have met the leaders of the Estonian Culinary Association with this support group. Not only are Estonia's real professionals part of this association, but there are also contacts outside Estonia. I especially liked one of their projects to train school caterers, school cooks. This is extremely important for our future generations, because we all know that eating habits start from childhood. If we are talking about health here, then surely the school is one of the parties to give people the necessary knowledge and habits. Internationalism is another important direction of this same culinary association. They have presented us with a fully-fledged action plan and budget, where the training practice of specialists and trainers in the best catering places is very important, as well as professional competitions. The activities of this association are significant and their request for financial assistance has reached us. It would be up to us, the Riigikogu, to support them! The second topic is Kodukant and it really wonders why there is no financial support for this movement in this draft state budget law. Since 2007, we have had to find an amount of about 60000 euros for each financial year in the Riigikogu. Why is it not put on the budget lines of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Minister of Regional Affairs already in the ministries, by the government? Of course, the criticism of the government is that the government, which arrogantly wants to profit from price increases, sees a pointless cost in helping people, needs to be replaced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U654	Thank you very much. I'll ask for Viktor Vassilyev next! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U655	Eight minutes, it's a short time, you can't get it all out of your heart. If we talk about our state budget in eight minutes, that's one minute for every billion, plus a small summary. This is, of course, revenue and expenditure for the state budget. We are not satisfied with revenue and expenditure, because there are places where money can be spent more wisely. You know, everywhere in the world, where polls are held and people are asked what is important to them, people rank important things in such a way that first there is personal security, then there is health and then there is economic well-being. These are the things that should also be most important in the budget. But what do we see? We see we don't have any money for security, the police are fired. The thing is, some places they just get beat up because there aren't enough. As far as healthcare is concerned, this is my favorite area. I am not going to stop at this for a very long time, but we can see that our health care system is working in an abbreviated way. We do not provide all the services that are necessary. We don't have all the operations people need. In the rest of the world, in other small countries, such as Denmark, it has been resolved by sending one operation to Germany, the other to England, the third to France. We can't do that because our man's insurance cover is seven times smaller than the German's and he has to pay for this operation from his money. This is where we come to the economic situation of the people. It's extremely bad. When you look at Estonian and Finnish, a Finnish pensioner receives a pension, which is two Estonian average salaries. So these things can't be compared. Yes, we were once told in this hall that we would be among the richest five countries. Then a little bit of an improvement was made on that saying and they said we'd get there someday anyway. I remember from school that I was once told there that Communism would come in 1961. Some still look forward to it, but there it is somewhere behind the horizon. Now we are probably trying to be among the top five in the category where Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are, there are no more contestants there. It's a good thing we're doing pretty well there. As regards the revenue side of the budget, where do these revenues come from? I guess it's in our pocket. Yeah, the proceeds come from our pockets. But how do they come from there? Our tax system is such that most of the tax revenue is collected by the state through excise duties and VAT. These are taxes that place a greater burden on the poorer population. Let's have the same alcohol. Whether a person is rich or poor, he doesn't consume more than half a liter anyway, the liver sets its limits. And for the wealthy, 2% of people, these excise duties-VATs don't matter at all, they don't know what they are. But for the poorer part of the population, excise duties and VAT are still a very, very important burden. What else is interesting about our budget? That is what I was talking about here a little while ago when I asked the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs a question about the budget's unemployment fund reserve and the health fund's reserve. Both reserves were grown up, i.e. as long as they ripened, cut them like grain, took the country's grain tray, and there they are now. As a result, the unemployment fund's reserve, which was considered to be fully eligible for a considerable reduction in unemployment insurance contributions, which would have suffered and which has been discussed for years, has gone into full. It was also known that the health fund's reserve would go, and a second reserve, the so-called reserve, was artificially built on it. This is the undistributed result of previous years, i.e. the profit of a public entity. Where does that profit come from? I guess it's only for the services that we didn't have for our money. And with that kind of money, public money will fill the Treasury, and indeed a promise was made to both the unemployment fund and the sickness fund that their reserves will be stored there nicely and nicely. They say we can handle them better, we put them in good stock, the state makes a profit. Okay! But I'm asking you, if they're stored nicely and not used, what the hell are they doing in the state budget? Why aren't they where they belong? This is how our budget is put together. Of course she's beautiful, she's cute, she's round, she's quite fit to show in Brussels. And I believe that this budget has been considered by the coalition to be a big job. But what else to show in Brussels to gentlemen who have very expensive suits on? What do you show them: did we hire, our social benefits, our income support, which does not cover the cost of a food basket? What's there to show? Indeed, only the budget for which we can praise, because it is very finely put together. Indeed, by showing it, they call a decent restaurant, they buy dinner. You know, I'm not invited to Brussels. In fact, I don't have a suit to wear in this kind of company. But I'm moving around here. When I get out of this house, I see people who ask me, are there any money in the budget to cover our expenses? I see it's not. I see there are tears in the budget for children whose parents are unable to buy them ice cream or a theatre ticket. I see there's humiliation for people who have to shake hands in the social department. I see that this budget does not only fulfil people's hopes, but also basic needs. I cannot vote for a budget like this. I'm ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U656	Thank you. We're trying to handle the tech somehow. I'll take a minute's break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U657	Let's get back to the hearing. We got the microphone back on time because Professor Aadu Black is coming to the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U658	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was particularly interested in education and science in the budget under discussion, but when I read the budget, it turned out that the whole budget deserves attention. This budget is quite well done from an accountant point of view. The problem, however, is that the state is not a simple company, but a somewhat more complex mechanism whose budget takes account not only of the legitimacy and policy of accounting but also of the development of society in its best sense. The budgetary strategy of Estonia's current government is a stagnation strategy. There is limited authority, interest in ministries, and clan spirit. This first half means taking into account the interests of different ministries and agencies, while the second means following a beehived interest in one business community or another. The serious problem with the budget is that it traditionally departs from the political rhetoric of its authors. The reduction in home costs and the rise in electricity prices were already mentioned here, but it is also precisely the divergent words and actions in the field of education and science. From this very chair of the Riigikogu, we have heard several times about the priority of education and science, the prospect of research-intensive production, as well as about good education as one of the most important and promising investments, not only for the future of the individual, but also for the future of the whole country. It is a bad thing that these high-ranking priorities have been used very little in the budgetary process. In accounting or, well, take it a little lower, arithmetically speaking, education, including higher education, is fine. The government promises to raise the salaries of teachers and declares that this will be done by municipalities in chronic under-funding who, unfortunately, do not have a revenue base that is necessary for the performance of their tasks and independent of the government's discretion. When I prepared the speech, I pulled all the figures out of the text and focused on explaining the simplest things. During our discussion today, the coalition half praised free higher education and, as the coalition customarily does, of course it was praised. At the moment, we are really working on the implementation of student needs-based grants in the Riigikogu Committee on Culture, which should ensure the transition to free higher education and create opportunities for students' work to be full-time learning. The Ministry boasts that this draft will increase the amount of aid paid to students. - double the dose. Obviously, it is a great achievement that the current government has agreed to such a great increase. But if someone thinks that this money is enough for students to live without going to work and fully devoted to teaching, then it is a great illusion. In literature, such double-rise bragging is called the logic of a beginner's stamp collector. What does that mean? This means that the beginner's stamp collector, who has four stamps and who has four more stamps, has doubled his total. One who is considered to be a serious philatelic and has a collection of 10,000 stamps cannot double it so quickly. But he's got something to talk about. We're going from zero to double or a little bit more than zero to double. It's not worth bragging about. The first observation to be made as the world moves around is that education and science are very rapidly evolving areas where board and cripplers no longer have a place. In order to remain still in the present European scientific world and not to fall into the trap of others, it is figuratively necessary to run very quickly. It means investing in people and technology. We are very close to the critical boundary of the fallback. What keeps our noses above water is, above all, European Union subsidies and the enthusiasm of scientists and teachers. And to the extent that the European Union's support projects are shrinking, there is a great risk that we will immediately be lagging behind overall developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U659	Do you want me to give you more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U660	Quality education and research require investment. Today there was already talk in this hall about veterinary training at the Estonian University of Life Sciences, which was so far high-quality, popular and corresponds to international accreditations. Only now it turns out there's no money to go on with it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you all that the current fiscal policy is putting the whole of Estonia's future at risk. Education and science are essential to the survival of a small nation, repeating what is more important than in a large country. I can't go past history either, and I repeat the thought that has been said here before: the birth of the Estonian state was a miracle for the world. There were three prerequisites for such a small nation to establish its own country. One of them was a half-century tradition of government, which taught itself to lead. The second was a somewhat happy historical coincidence in the world war, the creation of national units, the bravery of warriors. And the third prerequisite was the education faith of the Estonian people. It once happened that the Estonian people, 37% of the Estonian higher education population, had left their homeland and there was little hope that they would come back, but the truth is that nationalism brought them back. Right now, the bells start running again in the time of the tsarist state, our people are going away and not coming home. What should keep them here if their work is not valued? My great dream is that Estonia will continue to be among the most educated countries in Europe. My dream is that my dear home university will celebrate its 400th anniversary in 2032 among the educated or successful universities in Europe. As the current government's fiscal policy continues, however, it may happen that there will be less than 850,000 people in Estonia by then, that all markets south of Tallinn will be fading and that the anniversary of the University of Tartu will be held by a couple of old people who say, "We once had a famous university!" Against this background, I dare say that a government that, while arrogantly seeking to benefit from the price increase, does not see the need to help people or to promote education and science, could surrender its place to those who are also thinking about the future and survival of the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U661	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U662	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U663	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask for a speech chair next for Priit Toobali! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U664	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, My good groupmate, Mikhail Stalnukhin, still loves to tell all sorts of vital stories about this remote control. I will take the example of an experienced colleague, and I will read you a few stories about life itself. Anne Semyonova was grabbed from behind by the throat and pulled 5-6 meters away. According to Semyonova, he has never been attacked like this from behind before. "I remember that there were two men at Anne's house, one of them probably dragged her, I went to help her, but at the same time I got hit in the back of my head," Egert Heil recalled. Heil described that the four of them were against the party gang at first, but the possibility of all cooperation immediately disappeared. According to Semyonova, every patrol cop had two or three people around. The attackers also had a big gang spirit in them. This story happened in Viljandi. It's a different story. The dispute began at the Favora gas station, which says that reports of the premature death of a young man have been somewhat exaggerated. Everyone's gonna put something more into the story until the person's finally buried, but in fact, he's already working, they're talking at a gas station. "Again among the living!" On Facebook, a man working at a car repair company who was recovering from severe facial damage informed his friends already on 21 May. This story happened in Põlva. These two stories are neither action-film scenarios nor action-film sections. These are stories about the lives of our Estonian people, precisely those cases where the police are one of the parties. I think that each of us in this Chamber would like it to be better if he never had to deal with uniforms, but at the same time I would like the police to definitely exist or at least have the sense that order is safe and the law enforcement is there. Security and order are exactly what these good people must guarantee. This job isn't easy. Law enforcement is usually not done simply; such work is done out of a sense of mission. Do the good members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, know how much money are paid in Estonia by police officers? I know because I listened to the presentation by Raivo Küd, who came to the Central Party Group. A policeman who works hard gets around 650 euros a month. We are swinging across the bay for a moment towards the Finns of the northern neighbours: there the cafeteria cashier earns about 1700 euros and the janitor earns 1600 euros. Quite a difference! What does such a difference lead to? The figures speak clear language. The Police and Border Guard Board lacks 323 people and lacks weapons, special equipment, clothing and vehicles. These are daily work equipment worth €1.7 million in total. If the government cannot guarantee the police a competitive salary, more people will inevitably leave than they will. If modern tools cannot be guaranteed, motivation will be further reduced. At the beginning of my speech, I did not give these two examples in order to claim that the police were doing a bad job. On the contrary, that is certainly not the case. Rather, these examples indicated that villains sometimes tend to feel completely unpunished, even so unpunished, that they attack police officers. A few hours ago, we discussed a bill in this Chamber that would have strengthened the legal space for attacking police officers. What did the Riigikogu decide? The proposal was rejected by the votes of 52 coalition ambassadors. After all, the result was known because one of the opposition parties presented the proposal and the road roller went over another necessary draft. I have the feeling that the coalition is also planning to roll over from the amendment made by the Central Party Group on the state budget, which is intended to give the Police and Border Guard Board an additional EUR 4 million for operational and management costs. As early as last year, the Police and Border Guard Board applied for additional funding from the state budget to cover staff costs, as the underfunding required many police officers and border guards to take forced leave. Next year's state budget, in its current form, does not foresee the desired increase in salaries of police and border guards. The last few weeks have not made the police's hard work any easier. The scandal of the unchecked speed measurers revealed on the air of Estonian Television does not honor the Estonian state. By now, the Prefect of the Eastern Prefecture Aldis Sius and the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board Raivo Küüt have announced their resignation. True, the departure of the cub is a little shifty, but his term of office is still running out. Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher reported that of course he disapproves of what happened. And then what? In fact, that's all the way the Minister of the Interior takes responsibility. The question arises as to which boundary will be the responsibility of the Minister. Does the resignation of the subordinate leaders mean that it is the booze and that it is enough? Of course, every minor failure cannot require the Minister to resign, but the police scandal is a systemic problem. This, by the way, is what the former Ministers of the Interior refer to. Speaking of ministers, it seems to me that the government is shaping it into a kind of custom to use the taking down of subordinates to release air from scandals. So Juhan Parts eluded the Estonian Air scandal and the EAS scandal. Will Eesti Energia and Sandor Liive do the same with regard to all this increase in electricity prices? Certainly, however, the "Spectator" does not identify with the entire police system. Personally, I believe that most of the people working in this area, i.e. the Police and Border Guard Board, are honest people and are doing their job with honour and diligence, despite the fact that wages have not risen in recent years. As I said, law enforcement is generally not just about doing this, but it is not only about being paid but also about being in a sense of mission. But to remind you that the average salary of a police officer is EUR 650, how much of this sense of mission is enough for a family father, who is often the only one who brings food to the table in the family. In this way, the motivation for ever learning this profession and why it has been held for a few years will certainly be lost. A total of 96 very important amendments to the state budget were tabled by the Centre Party Group. Undoubtedly, one of the most important things is keeping electricity and room temperature prices under control, raising the salaries of teachers, rescuers and policemen, a fair increase in pensions, and free and decent school food for all schoolchildren. In addition, a number of proposals have been made by 'objects'. All the items on which the Centre Party has tabled amendments definitely require the support of the State. If they are not supported by this year's state budget, then the Centre Party will certainly present these proposals in the next budget. I will sum up my speech with one sentence: a government that arrogantly wants to benefit from price increases and sees helping people as a pointless cost, according to the Centre Party needs an exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U665	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U666	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing the most important law of the state here at a late hour of the night, this is the state budget law, which will set the entire life of the country for next year. The saddest thing about this law is that the share of municipalities in the budget is minimal or essentially non-existent. In 2008, for example, the share of income tax in the local government budget was reduced from 11,93% to 11,4%, which meant that municipalities lost EUR 30 million a year, the compensatory fund was reduced by EUR 20 million, road money four times. This situation has been going on for five years for municipalities. Add up these amounts and consider how our municipalities have managed in this situation! In the European Union, there is no other country that would have so rapidly reduced the income of local governments. It is a great wonder that our municipalities are able and still exist today to fulfil their basic obligations. I think that for many, this winter could become a moment of truth, because the price increases that are ahead of us are probably not going to last a few wallets. In the process of cutting, the municipal road money was reduced four times in the middle. It's really weird to me. Reducing road money is essentially a political decision, because for roads, money comes from excise duties on fuel. Somehow, when the money went on for national roads, it didn't go on for local government roads. Now we are in a situation where we drive quite proudly along the roads to some city border, and then we see this real picture of the Estonian state. Why is that? Probably because Tallinn's road money needed to be reduced, and as a result the rest of Estonia's municipalities suffered. I think this is not normal, Estonian cities should be one of the business cards of the Estonian state. But that was the political choice then. There's nothing to say. In 2009, the wages of local government employees were reduced differently. There were municipalities where employees' wages were reduced by up to 20%, which was in 2009. Many municipalities have managed to raise the salaries of these people by today, up to a maximum of 5%, 7%. Imagine now that these people have been working for five years on a salary that is 15% less than it was in 2008. If the state tries to raise the pay of teachers next year, I ask what formula should local governments raise the pay of kindergarten teachers? There was a time when the state had its own programme for kindergartens and additional money was allocated from the state budget to local governments so that the pay of kindergarten teachers would be equivalent to the salary of the state's junior teacher. For today, it's just a dream. Where should the municipality find pay for teachers in hobby schools and where should the pay of support specialists come from? This year, the salaries of many municipal support specialists were paid by the state. For example, I know that in the case of the city of Tartu, this amount was 10 million kroons, or about 60 million euros. I am surprised that the Reform Party has swallowed it, and it has been accepted. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U667	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U668	Tartu is not the only such city. As far as I know, many cities have been paid to support specialists because it has been paid by the state and by the teachers' payroll. I ask whether it is a state of today's Estonia and today's Europe, where cities are blind. Not only are our cities blind, our villages and other settlements are also blind. It looks like some kind of wartime, but it's nothing else than that local governments don't have the money to pay for street lighting. If next year there will be an increase in electricity prices, which also affects local authorities, where will they find 20 to 30% extra money? The electricity of the municipality is not only street lighting, it is also school lighting, etc. This is quite a large amount of money and unfortunately there does not seem to be a solution to the problems of local authorities here, because next year's state budget will not provide hope for this. When we talk about how the state behaved with local governments in tax liberalisation of the homeland, there was a firm promise from this Riigikogu board and the Prime Minister also promised that no local government would have a reduction in its income base. What have we got? This 0.17% increase in income tax does not cover the pit created by the tax exemption of the land under the land and reflected in the budgets of local authorities. It is known that the city of Haapsalu, for example, will lose nearly EUR 30000, and the city of Kuressaare has calculated how much damage they will suffer. Unfortunately, this is what the state is doing to the local governments at the moment. I am also convinced that this budget is unconstitutional. If this comes to the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can say that there is a contradiction with the Constitution, because § 157 of the Constitution clearly states that the local government has an independent budget. Next year, the budget of local governments has been added to the state budget. The draft is also contrary to § 3 of the Constitution, according to which state authority is exercised solely on the basis of the Constitution and the laws which are compatible with it. Whether this state budget is confirmed by the President of the Republic, we will find out in a little while, but my feeling is that there is a strong contradiction with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U669	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a call chair for the Olga Stranger!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U670	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests on the balcony! Good Internet watchers! Today, in this Chamber, we are discussing the state budget for next year, the most important document that will normally be processed at the end of the year. As you all have already understood, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has tabled 96 amendments to this draft, but unfortunately none of them found support in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And in order for everyone, perhaps there are still Internet monitors who are watching us at this late time, to understand what the Group of the IRL and Reform Party consider to be of little importance and unnecessary, I would like to introduce from this platform our first amendment on the list of amendments. With this amendment, we want to allocate an additional EUR 10100000 to increase the allowance for school lunches for pupils in comprehensive school and vocational schools to EUR 1 and extend the offer of free school food to upper secondary school. As a source of cover, we see income tax, which has to be increased by introducing progressive income tax. Why do we consider this proposal so important that we made it the first? According to different estimates, nearly 20,000 children live in Estonia, whose parents have difficulty providing daily food. Therefore, free school food is important for many students, as it can be their only warm meal once a day. Many parents are unable to give allowance to their children to buy school lunch. Many children have parents working abroad and may not cook themselves warm meals every day. Thus, the student's success may be reduced because an empty stomach paralyzes thinking and inhibits learning. However, all children are equal and have the right to equal treatment. An empty stomach must not become an obstacle to gaining knowledge and thereby securing a successful future. Warm school food is also necessary to ensure that young people are in good health. Man's eating habits begin in childhood. Many diseases in adulthood begin with unbalanced and irregular diets and the resulting childhood prevalence. The warm school lunch from the first to the 12th grade reduces the body's fatigue, thus helping schoolchildren to avoid fatigue and stress. School food contributes to the development of the right eating habits and is a good way to protect children from junk food. During the government of the Central Party, the state began to financially cover the lunches of pupils in comprehensive school and vocational school. In 2002, the Centre Party established a free school lunch for primary school children under the leadership of the then Minister of Education, Mailis Reps, and in 2006 everyone started receiving free lunch until the ninth grade and school-based vocational students. In 2006, the allowance for school lunch was 64 cents, i.e. 10 kroons in the kroon money. Today it has increased to 78 cents, or about 22%. However, according to Statistics Estonia, food and non-alcoholic beverages prices have increased by more than 30% during the same period. Continuing price increases have put school caterers in a very difficult situation where they have to offer a healthy hot lunch within a very small budget. As the school caterer spends less on one portion this year than in 2006, the portions have become smaller. This is confirmed by the children themselves. In the responses to the survey organised by the Aino Järvesoo Foundation, students said that the school lunches were small and too few vegetables were offered. However, the EUR 78-cent public support alone cannot cover the cost of free school lunches, which means that the municipality and the city budget or the parents will have to pay more. Therefore, support for school lunch should be increased to at least EUR 1 in order to provide balanced school meals. The Centre Party Group has proposed several times in this Chamber to increase the support for school food and to extend it to the gymnasts. There was also a bill that we wanted to extend this support to kindergarten children. However, these proposals have not been supported by coalition partners. Although, in essence, no party opposed the proposals, they have not found support. The pretext for not supporting was the lack of sufficient financial resources. However, today we heard a different rhetoric from the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs; he said that perhaps the school lunch support system should be made needs-based instead.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U671	So next time we come up with this proposal, we will be told that the system is wrong and that it needs to be made needs-based. We will soon find out that we have pensions on a need-based basis. The question here is the priorities of a sitting government. After all, healthy children are the basis for the Estonian state's survival. Nor should the financing of school food be viewed as a strict budgetary cost. Proper nutrition as a child ensures healthier working people, and in this case public spending on the payment of incapacity for work and other benefits will be reduced in the future. Active workers, however, ensure higher taxes on labour, which, in turn, helps to rebalance the state budget. Thus, the provision of free school meals from primary school to upper secondary school is indispensable for both short-term and long-term goals. One of the objectives of the social policy of the Republic of Estonia is to reduce poverty in families with children. By offering hot food at least once a day, we ensure the healthy development of children and thus the sustainability of the country. I therefore call on all coalition ambassadors to think again about the button they are pressing when the voting time for amendments arrives, hopefully, for the rest of us to watch, at least on television, in their offices. Finally, I would like to say that a government that arrogantly wants to benefit from price increases and sees helping people as a pointless cost needs to be exchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U672	Are we extending the time? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U673	Thank you. Speaking chair Enn Frontland, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U674	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about a subject that, either way and quite directly, relates to the state budget and not just to next year's expenditure. We are talking about border agreements between Estonia and Russia. When you analyse the border between Russia and Estonia for a few centuries, you wonder how much it has changed in time. It has been six and a half years since the last attempt to establish a contractual limit between the two countries. I was then chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu and I remember well what was thought of in the political groups at the time and why the Preamble was added to the Border Treaty. In fact, this is far from exceptional. In the United States, it is quite common for the Congress to add explanatory introductions to complement the ratification laws for its people. This is how we acted at the urgent request of the ambassadors of the Fatherland Union, adding a reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty in the introductory text of the Treaty. Should we have stopped referring to the peace of Tartu? Professor Tanel Kerikmäe, a lawyer, distinguishes two aspects here. First of all, at the border, if such an agreement has already taken place before and there are no distinct views. It would be wrong to accuse anyone of selling behind Narva, as the Riigikogu did not contest the outcome of previous negotiations over the new official border, which were included in the infamous Preamble Border Treaty. I quote Mr. Church Mountains. On the other hand, the question raised could mean additional conditions. Kerikmäe continues to take the view that the fact that Tartu's peace is not mentioned in the preamble to the Ratification Act does not in any way undermine the validity of an international agreement that is important to us, but rather alters the scope of its validity by means of the mandate given in the Constitution. The peace of Tartu is not just a border treaty. The Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet signed the border agreement with his Russian colleague Sergei Lavrov, which then had no introductory text, in Moscow in May 2005. The Riigikogu ratified the Estonian-Russian border treaty with the Preamble in June of the same year, even then 4 other members of the Riigikogu opposed the decision. Pretty soon, to our surprise, Moscow was announced that the introduction to the border treaty could be an introduction to Estonia's territorial demands on Russia's territories. Of course, we have always rejected these accusations at all levels. Moreover, despite Moscow's arguments, Estonia has never changed a word in the texts of the border treaties. After all, the Estonian-Russian border agreement signed in 2005 was not ratified by Russia because the Estonian Riigikogu added a preamble to it when it came into force, which stated that the border agreement would partly change the line of the state line set out in the Tartu Peace Treaty of 2 February 1920, but would not affect the rest of the Tartu Peace Treaty or determine the treatment of bilateral issues not covered by the border agreement. A month ago, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs proposed that all political groups and non-groups members of the Riigikogu turn to the Estonian Government with a joint letter in order to resume negotiations on the border agreement. The proposal was supported and the government decided to take the matter seriously. The Estonian Minister of Foreign Affairs met with his colleague in Luxembourg on 14 October. Consultations were agreed upon. A meeting between the foreign ministries of two countries took place in Moscow on 31 October. Estonia was represented by the Deputy Chancellor of Legal and Consular Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Lauri Bambus and Estonian Ambassador to Moscow Jüri Luik. The representatives of Estonia base their consultations on the Riigikogu's proposal to conclude a border agreement satisfactory for both parties to the government. The consultations do not intend to change the border line contained in the border agreements agreed in 2005. Both parties to the negotiations consider that both Estonia and Russia need a border agreement. Tanel Kirikmäe believes that Estonia should conclude a new border agreement, but certainly not on every condition. The consultations that have begun are a sign of the will between the two countries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will certainly try to do its best and will be guided by the principles adopted earlier, such as the recommendation of the former Chancellor of Justice that the new border must be even partially identical to the post-Tartu peace border. This requirement stems from the wording of the Constitutional Regulation. At the end of the consultations, the Riigikogu, we, has the opportunity to assess the suitability of the border agreement. The question of the Preamble is obviously not addressed at least in the legal key for consultations, because it is not the competence of our negotiators. At the meeting of the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee on Thursday, we analysed the first meeting with Russian representatives in Moscow, together with Deputy Chancellor Lauri Bambus and Foreign Minister Urmas Paet, and discussed border agreements in a wider context. Consultations, which are likely to continue in Tallinn in December, will seek to reach a common position on the wording by which, while working further, we can reach the enforcement and ratification of border agreements in the parliament of two countries. At our level, we will continue to work here in this building, in the Riigikogu. Last week Mikhail Margelov, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Russian Federation Council, visited Tallinn, who has been a known colleague for years. In addition to the issue of border agreements, we addressed the strengthening of cross-border cooperation. To this end, a number of infrastructure objects, such as Narva's new bridge, should be built. This would greatly contribute to the acceleration of border crossings and increase opportunities for tourism and trade. Mikhail Margelov was of the same opinion and proposed to continue the contacts of MEPs in Moscow next spring. Of course, we also want closer working contacts with the Foreign Affairs Committee of the State Duma and its Chairman, Aleksei Pushkov. Border agreements do not need to rush, but their existence would provide a number of opportunities to increase the number of contacts not too close between the two neighbouring countries. All of this has a direct connection to the Estonian state budget and its cost side at the top, because there is still much to be done in Estonia on border issues, but hopefully in the future there will also be revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U675	Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U676	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we have the state budget before us and, if it is unfortunate, the politicians of the government coalition have not understood the fact that this budget is once again deteriorating the quality of public services. We are like dead in a circle where there is no way out, but the way out is not actually seen just because the government coalition is still not ready to listen or take into account the opposition's proposals. Maybe not all proposals need to be implemented immediately. But in fact, the situation is that let us forget for a moment our party membership and the constant napping of each other, and let us look out the window and listen to our own people. People are in trouble, the country can't handle its own business anymore. Look, if there's any single flaws here to suggest that this or the other thing needs a little improvement, but that's not the way it is. The situation is, in my opinion, that there is nothing left to do with any easy cosmetic therapy. World Bank experts have said that the high quality of public services increases the middle class. The quality of our public services is almost nonexistent. Open your eyes and see what happens in the country! There are problems with the Health Insurance Fund, there are problems with the police, there are problems with the emergency services, there are problems with education, the price increase eats all the savings, people fleeing the country. No, they're not going elsewhere. They're literally running away. Again, in support of the views of the World Bank experts, I assure you that the lower the quality of public services, such as internal security, medicine, etc., the less the middle class wants to use these services, and not only to use them, but also to support them with taxes. That's right, which is why poorly organised public medicine should be supported if there is a high-level private clinic next to it. If the members of the government say it's man's free will, forgive me, that's bullshit. The same applies to the police. Why would a decent person want to pay taxes to the police who lie inside the organization and also to the public? Why should the police, whose employees sell secrets in our country, or simply bullying people just as well? Why would you want to support the police who are fleeing instead of solving the problem? Look, if there's a problem on the railroad, there's no point in blaming the railmaker, there's no point in blaming even the station manager. Internal security is exactly the same: if there are problems, there is no point in blaming a real policeman or his leader or a prefect from whom we recently took away all the opportunities to set up a team. I believe that if the Minister is responsible, the Minister must be responsible. Why would one person want to pay taxes to an educational system that doesn't teach him? Especially if there are opportunities to get a good education right here, ensure a career for yourself and a safe childhood for your children. I am thinking of our neighbours, the countries to which our people are fleeing. And on the subject of education, I would, of course, like to recall IRL's promise to give every teacher a laptop. Well, have the teachers got their laptops? No, we're not. We're closing schools instead. The same views of the World Bank experts are supported by Estonian business leaders. They'll confirm that you'll take care of things, restore corporate income tax, but you can handle these tasks... I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U677	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U678	...which you have taken. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The state budget that we have before us today is also one that anchors the poor situation, only now, in any case, it is much worse than it was before. I have the impression that by now every seam is rocking and every area needs more. Of course, you can't do it all at once, but you should start somewhere. However, it is the desire to have a dialogue and to take the opposition's views into account, which I do not see. That's a shame! The inability to cooperate and neglect has created a situation where I have to give this speech simply for the verbatim, and that does not change anything. But we're all gonna reflect back what we're looking at. If you cannot negotiate with anyone and if I am not taken seriously, then I have no reason to support those who do not want to take my thoughts into account at all. This situation is, in my opinion, extremely serious and should indeed begin to look quite intently for the opportunities and places where we can and will be able to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U679	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U680	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, insomniacs! Visitors on the balcony and Estonians who are watching us online! The coalition has already been dealt with yesterday and has very much approved the 2013 draft budget to be processed today, but it still has its own threats and traps, both for municipalities, entrepreneurs, but also for vulnerable families, the elderly and people with special needs. That's why it can't be considered very good. This budget gives with one hand and takes with the other hand, I am thinking precisely of the need-based child support and, for example, of the new study grant paid to students. Let me give you some examples. If there are two parents in the family who earn a minimum wage or a slightly higher salary, two children attending school and receiving child benefit, and a third child, a student who receives student benefit and lives and eats in another city, then the family is at risk of not receiving needs-based and actually very necessary help, because the system assessing family poverty on the basis of income support principles also takes into account student education allowance and current universal child support as income. And if this family still has to live on the same ground as Grandma or Grandpa, it's a bad situation. Several colleagues have spoken about the fact that more child benefit should be paid to each child and that it should be raised before me. I am not going to repeat this, because it is clear that if the first child is not born, then the birth of the third child should not be expected, and then there should be multiple child benefits. Social workers in local governments have mentioned 2013 as a year of evidence collection, where there is no time left for actual, substantive social work, let alone prevention, because the needy will soon have to provide proof that proof is not needed. The opinion of the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was very concerned today that the support for school food, which today is available only for primary school pupils and young people studying in vocational schools, should be made needs-based and applied separately. However, the amount of aid already granted does not cover the actual costs of school meals, and municipalities or parents will have to pay more. The Finnish state decided, after the end of the war, in a very difficult financial situation, to pay Russian military debts that their country's wealth is people, specifically children, and from that time until today, all schoolchildren in Finland will receive free school meals until the completion of upper secondary school or vocational school. Children are both a matter of national defence and a matter of survival. Unfortunately, however, it is also questionable in Estonia whether everyone who has received free school meals will continue to receive it and how long they will receive it. Not to mention that opposition parties have tabled drafts and suggestions for improvement, the content of which is to increase the number of school food recipients by providing school food for the end of upper secondary school, and also to increase the amount to be allocated in view of the cost of living. On Monday, one question was about technical aids for people with special needs, which are entitled to, but not always possible, because many municipalities, especially in large counties, had already run out of money in July-August and were not even able to apply for them for children. In addition to the committees of rural governments that were unable to fulfil their obligations under the law, there are also local authorities under great pressure because many needy people, by purchasing a non-preferential tool such as the Inco product, have turned to the municipal or municipal authorities for financial support. After all, a child or an adult who needs help cannot wait to use the means necessary for everyday life until the additional budget comes up. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U681	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U682	Children, people of working age, as well as older people, are both financially and psychologically in a situation where they feel that their country does not care enough about them. I would very much like to hope that the very large increase in grants and services for people with special needs, highlighted in the replies of the President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who presented the Minister on Monday and today, will ensure that no such inhuman and human dignity is created in 2013. What else? I am not going to talk any further about the increase in electricity prices, because it has already been done by several speakers. I would just like to add that the increase in the price of electricity is not a matter of itself, but it will lead to other serious price increases. I'm an optimist by nature. However, if a comparison is used, it can still be said that glass is half empty, not half full. If you keep drinking half-empty glass, at one point the glass will be empty and it may be hopelessly late because the younger Estonians have found lower home expenses and renovated housing, but unfortunately in other countries with universal child benefits and free school food. I am deeply convinced that a proud, but poor Estonian must not be turned into an apocalypse, because social welfare is not a sign of the good will of the state, it is a duty. I also firmly believe that if people's well-being increases, the economy will also grow. But not the other way around, like all the time the mantra is being presented by today's government departments. Only a person who deals with his or her livelihood, collects evidence and presents evidence is certainly not a motivated employee. To some extent, the fact that none of the opposition proposals was taken into account is also astonishing for me as a member of the Riigikogu for just a year and nearly eight months. Unfortunately, there is no hope of constructive cooperation and state-manly behaviour in this kind of behaviour. Therefore, when voting on the amendments, think about whether everything that is being proposed really does not even deserve to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U683	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U684	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U685	Thank you very much, Mr Helmen Hunter. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U686	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good tradesmen, guests and internet monitors! In my speech, I will focus mainly on our amendment, which bears number 78 and talks about the price of the room and the livelihood of the people. The country has many important functions today, the most important of which is to ensure decent living conditions for all its inhabitants. Estonia belongs to the European Union and the euro area, but our people's standard of living is clearly lower than that of many Western Europeans. Unlike wealthier nations and countries, rising food prices and rising housing costs continue to be a problem in Estonia. In recent years, the situation has deteriorated even further, as the inevitable expenditure on food and housing has clearly increased faster than people's incomes. At this point, the state has a moral obligation to intervene and help its people. Housing costs are, as we know, the greatest in the winter that is about to come. We have to pay rising heating costs. Thus, reducing the cost of indoor heating is the best way to keep housing costs under control. Unfortunately, today's government coalition has so far acted in the opposite direction and adopted a number of draft laws that have actually increased people's heating costs. You will probably remember that heat was subject to a VAT rate of 5% until 1 July 2007. The VAT Act, which introduced a VAT rate on heat energy of 18%, then entered into force. Shortly after the economic crisis in 2009, the government coalition decided to increase the VAT rate to 20% at very short notice and also to increase the rate of excise duty on natural gas to 367 kroons per 1000 cubic metres. As a result of these decisions, the monthly heating costs of all people living in central heating homes and gas-fired apartments or private homes increased. Even worse timing is quite difficult to imagine, but during the economic crisis, the only goal was to achieve a balance in the state budget. People's budgets were private and clearly secondary. The most difficult effect is, of course, the high room temperature price for people with lower than average incomes, whose monthly budget makes up a much larger share of heating costs than for wealthier people. In this respect, despite growth and the alleged increase in well-being, heating costs have also increased more quickly in recent years than people's wages or pensions. According to Statistics Estonia, thermal energy has increased by as much as 12.1% compared to October last year. I wonder how this number goes with an election promise to keep home expenses under control. In the budget of the average Estonian person, housing costs now account for one major share, reaching up to 20%. A person earning a minimum wage of EUR 290, who, for example, lives in a two-room panelhouse apartment, will spend half of his income on utilities during the heating period. This example is given in the Mustamäe district. During winter, unavoidable heating costs mostly account for the bulk of the apartment's utility costs. High heating costs are not a minor problem that solves itself. Ask a member of the management board of a building management company how the winter heating period affects the payment of people's utilities. In households with lower incomes, it is already difficult to find money to buy food for life alongside a mortgage or rent payments taken to buy a home. Winter heating costs are often the last blow that leads to a final imbalance in the family budget, a deficit. Due to the debts of utility bills, a large number of people have had to give up their homes, which is a serious disgrace to one of them, and at least to a successful country in words. We must do everything we can to value and support every person in Estonia and avoid situations like this with a tragic end. According to the vision of the Estonian Centre Party, the state must not sit back, but must find ways to alleviate the situation of homeowners. That is why we have repeatedly proposed lowering room-warm VAT to 9%. Unfortunately, this draft has not been supported and has been consistently rejected. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic has not put forward any substantive arguments against the draft legislation on VAT in our room. The fear that people who do not really need it will also benefit from a reduced rate recalls the rhetoric of the government coalition in changing the child benefit system. The result of the last much-accepted reform is that child support will remain at the absurdly low level of the majority of families next year, which, in the light of the continuing price increase, will essentially lead to a reduction. Just as child support must not be poverty support, the need-based slogan should not be used to combat the lowering of people's heating bills, as the cost of housing for most Estonian residents is a considerable departure and their growth is a very serious problem. The second argument that has been put forward for consumers against a proposal to lower the price of heat energy is, in my opinion, even less critical. In its letter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs of August 2011, the Government found that the general support for heat through the tax system favours over-consumption and does not encourage saving and saving the environment. Finally, I call on the government departments to be more guided by people's well-being in their activities and at least also to discuss the proposals of opposition parties, which today, by the way, are supported by the majority of the Estonian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U687	Thank you very much. Aivar Riisalu, colleague of the speaker's desk, please. Eight minutes, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U688	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen here - and over there on the light blue screen! Clearly over midnight, speaking to yourself here today is, of course, extraordinary in the sense that it has created a lot of confusing feelings. When it was known that the budget debate was going to get tough, I made up a subject for myself that I would like to talk about. The subject is the situation of the rescuers. Moved me to secure this subject for him a week ago with a fine team of free-will sprayers from Harjumaa at one of the Father's Day events. Sadly, these people are patriots, they know what they're doing, but these people were insecure because they don't know what the future holds for them. This is a large settlement near Tallinn, and their rescue area is quite awe-inspiring. When I was standing there with these men next to the rescue car and discussing the possibility of life in the Republic of Estonia, I remembered one episode. I was doing a bonfire at home and wondering how I could get this flooded pile of wood on fire. So I took a bunch of dry trees, made a fire up and went away calmly, thought maybe he'd go there someday. When I came back, the fire was burning, and the time difference was very, very modest. Now I heard about the size of these sprayers' territory, I heard they're out there on guard alone, and that today they're getting paid something else for it, but that the car's going to go out right away. When I listened to that talk and thought about my fire, I realized how serious the situation really was. We're saying that rescue capabilities are getting better and better by shutting down the commandos, because we're getting life-saving capabilities. But if I remember my fire again and I think that if someone next to that fire or worse should fight for their lives inside the fire, then that life-saving ability will be of no use if the rescue car arrives at the moment when the fire has really taken over, and believe me, it's going awfully fast. Well, it wasn't that long ago that the Rescue Board was complaining. The fire department's leaders were just saying that rescue cars are complex organisms or, let's say, there's no way to keep the rescue equipment that I'm doing it for a little bit today, then a few years because of the lack of money, and then I'm going back on. The rescue technique is actually a process, if you take a break, you put it in a hole, which means you might even have teams, but if you haven't bought it in time, these guys have nothing to go out with but a shovel and a bucket. I'm not that pathetic guy, but I'm telling you honestly and frankly that the choice of this subject was good for me. I realized at the same time that a country that wants to be a state must realise that it has certain characteristics, and dealing with these traits cannot be like an alternating flow, that I'm dealing with it today, that I'm not doing it tomorrow. Rescue services are part of this action, which is why we should be very consistent and aware of the situation on this issue. There should be no such silly disputes as were in the Riigikogu some time ago when 21 million kroons of money were missing to eradicate the crisis of rescue workers and there was no way of finding it. But I hope that the people of Estonia will be good and, at least, by putting together teams of volunteers, we will be able to ensure that people can live in our beloved Estonia. A more serious problem that I would like to mark in my speech developed in my brain this evening. When it is said that the opposition has tabled amendments to the state budget, it is as if the opposition is always being shouted in the face that there are sources of cover. But look, if an Estonian family makes a budget for itself, it still has to take into account how much money it has, what it can afford for this money, and that it doesn't seem to be coming from anywhere else. Nor can any company invest more than it can and deny, the owner of the company can raise more money than he can. The fact that a loan is sometimes taken to pay dividends is completely reasonable and cannot be blamed, for example, on the Estonian state. But if we are now saying that the opposition would like to change something in the structure of the state budget, this evening I have the question of who is the unnoticed and invisible force who will agree on the structure of the state budget. I agree that there are fixed costs that are laid down by law and must be borne. But then there's gonna be a whole lot of money that tends to be the cost of whatever one person decides. Forgive me, as an Estonian, I find it poor to give this example, but in fact, the Estonian National Museum at Raad has been a bone between our teeth for years. And today, I hear a declarative saying here that if we do not get support from the Structural Funds from Europe, we will build this museum ourselves, because we have promised and we have decided to do so. I am not opposed to ERM, but I am opposed to someone taking the right to punch a table and say that I have promised it, and with it he will significantly worsen the state of the marks of a number of countries. We all know that if we build ERM for our money, it means that for years we will not be able to talk about anything else in culture. You see, in this case, I do not understand that if we are otherwise a perfectly reasonable country and relatively often adopt laws here with 90 votes, then the draft state budget has somehow become one where there is an argument. In fact, those invisible who decide on the structure cannot sum up at the table the whole section of society, which Parliament is about, in order to discuss together how it would be reasonable and how we could provide a decent living environment for the beloved people of Estonia. Understand, when people no longer exist, our kind are the least needed by society! That's why we can't be ignorant, arrogant and ignore each other. I am not calling for the government that acts like this to have to resign, but I am saying that this is not the way we can live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U689	Thank you very much, Mr Riisalu. Aivar Sõerdi, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U690	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, when most European countries are looking for a solution to the poor state of public finances due to the debt crisis and years of cuts, there are not many countries that will be able to raise pensions next year, anticipate wage increases in the public sector and increase social benefits. Obviously, the increases that we have planned could be even greater, but the country's financial situation really does not allow more. Yes, a country can survive for some time, and quite a number of southern European countries have been spreading this practice. But what it leads to, and their unfortunate situation today, wouldn't want us to. The opposition has today criticised us for the lack of dialogue and called for a substantive discussion of the opposition's proposals. But I ask you, how can we do this if you don't want to? I am not just talking; this was clearly demonstrated by the debate on the proposed improvements to the state budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The current law does not merely formally require that the proposed amendment should also have a source of cover, in particular so that the Committee on Monetary Affairs can discuss these amendments in substance. I have calculated that the increase in expenditure after your proposals was EUR 190 million, and given how little there are so-called free resources in the state budget that have not already been passed on by law, this is still a very significant part. You have several options. You can show that you're pulling costs off somewhere, but I didn't see any serious places where you would have shown cost savings. It is also possible to increase revenue, but the current law provides, and this is also a perfectly understandable requirement that if you propose to increase revenue, you should also submit drafts with which these revenues will increase in the case of an increase in tax revenues. I waited and assumed that during the procedure for the amendments to the state budget, you would receive a famous draft law on progressive income tax, but it has not come to this day. I don't understand why you're not presenting it. The mere fact that you write "rate income tax" does not automatically mean an increase in income. In the case of the Tax Act, the collection of income still depends on the tax base, the specific tax rates. However, since you did not submit the draft progressive income tax, we do not know what the rates are, the exemptions, benefits and deductions provided for there are, which are usually numerous in the case of a graduated income tax system. The chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs today congratulated the speakers. Indeed, the Socats had put forward some sort of draft law on progressive income tax in addition to the amendments. However, questions arose in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, such first-level questions as how dividends are taxed on this draft, how income tax is withheld, how non-residents are taxed, for example. It all depends very much on how much additional revenue will be received after this amendment to the Tax Act. But maybe there's less revenue than the law in force? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U691	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U692	The Soots were unable to answer these questions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but they promised to provide answers in the near future, so we are waiting for them. But once again, I do not understand why you do not want to submit this draft law on graduated income tax. Indeed, during the two-year work of the Riigikogu, there has been a so-called draft procedure which introduced an amendment to one of the provisions of the current Income Tax Act. This is not a serious draft and cannot be seen as a step-by-step tax amendment. It was not possible to discuss this in substance. As far as your proposal on classic corporate tax is concerned, no one here has seen such a bill in any form. Once again: be so kind as to make your proposals, which can be discussed in substance, submit your draft tax laws and formalise budget proposals with sources of coverage that can be discussed in substance. If you fail or fail to do so, there is no substantive alternative to what you offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U693	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! Please, Mr Nestor, speaking from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U694	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson! My colleague, Kadri Simson, would like to present to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U695	Thank you, manager. Aivar Sõerd gave such a rousing speech, and I will answer again as I did in the Commission. The question was, for example, how to tax dividends. Our answer was also in the Commission that, just as it is now, only with a different percentage. I'll stick to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U696	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I think maybe it's worth taking a moment to think that we've had a good debate today. We have just discussed with my colleague, Mr Sester, that I do not remember when more substantive speeches have been made at 1.33 a.m. Night sessions are almost the only means for us, as an opposition, to put pressure on the draft state budget, which is socially insensitive and entrapmentable. The adoption of such a budget must be prevented, at least as long as no amendment is even accepted. Only one keyword is enough: the electricity price will rise by about 20% from the new year, but the government union will not take up excise duty and thus even bring up the price reduction. The responsible part of the Riigikogu cannot accept this. Our proposals for reducing electric excises will probably be heard better when the pressure behind them is real in the form of night sessions. It is completely wrong to say, as has been done so far, that the government cannot do anything about the price of electricity. Yes, he can! The tool of the government is tax policy and the direct employers of the government and givers of labour orders are 56 members of the IRL and Reform Party in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. If the government says he's not doing anything, then you can say there's nothing irreplaceable about doing nothing. Those who do nothing can be replaced by those who want to use the keys in their hands so that next year's budget does not lead to such price increases. I've heard questions in the costaars here about the fact that the night hearing doesn't bring any more money. Why do we have to discuss the budget today? Why do we have to discuss the budget tomorrow? Why do we probably have to continue this debate next week? It's appropriate to think beyond the past. Night sittings are a common method in most Western parliaments against the overwhelming voting machine of the government alliances. The first reason for the night hearing is attitude. If the debate is not recommended and if no proposal is heard, then the logical conclusion is the night hearing. Night sessions were born, by the way, in the Roman Senate, where they became a Democratic weapon against dictators. Senator Cato the Younger tried to prevent Caesar's journey to power and the Republic from becoming a personal cult empire with lingering speeches. Although Caesar was still in power, night sittings were considered such an effective means that they were still part of Parliament's work. Night sessions are an effective weapon against those who think they have a monopoly on the truth. This is the only working weapon in a situation where the majority force does not want to hold a normal political debate. The proposal that we are trying to make visible and audible at night sessions is a reduction of electricity excise duty four and a half times, i.e. to the minimum permitted by European Union rules. On TV, the choice of a better and cheaper electricity package may be advertised, but the upcoming price increase will also have a rather difficult effect on the economy, as confirmed by Eesti Pank, giving a significant share of the forecast increase in the total cost of living for the following year. The task of the Centre Party is to remind the government that, for example, those who have electric heating at home will find it very difficult to have a new year without a fall in excise duty. Why isn't the government defending these people's interests? If one of the government departments, namely the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, promised to lower their home expenses, which, however, are not very successful, they would finally be able to fulfil their own promises by joining our proposals. It should be taken into account that rising electricity prices also affect the competitiveness of the economy. Production and servicing at an acceptable price is becoming increasingly difficult. Estonia's business would benefit from the reduction of electricity excise duty. If nothing is done about the increase in electricity prices, the business environment in Estonia will deteriorate, the chances of creating jobs will be reduced. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U697	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U698	With regard to home expenses, the Centre Party has another proposal on the budget: to halve room-warm VAT by more than half, from the current 20% to 9%. We know that the price of a room warm has risen enormously over the last few years, making living expenses increasingly bearable. At present, the State Treasury is being overcharged with room-warm VAT, although those who do not have the right revenues, such as pensioners, will also have to pay for the room-warmer. This is a fiscally unfair solution that burdens people with excessively low incomes. I can already hear the screams of Aivar Sõerdi from this second line that you will allow taxes to be lowered, but where are the sources of cover coming from? Where, then, are the sources of cover for the reduction of excise duty and VAT and for the payment of school meals and the increase in teachers' salaries? From a lot of places. One proposal is to postpone the major projects that are currently clearly overpowering Estonia, such as the Estonian National Museum, which has been deprived of the euro. There is also a need to increase the income of the Estonian state. The IRS has said that they know how much uncollected taxes are and that if they were to increase the capacity of the IRS, they would be better able to collect taxes. We also have a proposal to give the tax administration more money, which, however, did not find support either. State revenue needs to be increased by restoring corporate tax. This is not so strange and reluctant to propose to a very large number of Estonian entrepreneurs, because they say that the companies that are taking their profits out of Estonia will benefit most from today's tax situation. And finally. The Centre Party is ready to introduce a new and fairer graduated income tax, which would distribute the tax burden more balancedly and better generate revenue for the country from where the money moves more. I would like to remind you that it is people who would pay a higher level of progressive income tax, i.e. those whose monthly income is more than EUR 1 500, who have now won the most from a reduction in income tax from 26% to 21%. Their extra burden would not be much greater than what they have gained so far as a victory. When carers and nurses showed their strength in strikes, and successfully so, at first, it was said that nothing could be changed. Finally, as the pressure increased, it turned out that it was still possible to change, a debate could be held. The pressure of the opposition of the Riigikogu and the Centre Party will be night sessions and it will no longer be possible to ignore the existence of other possibilities in the state budget of next year. The fact that there are no other alternatives is not true! The government has the key to curbing next year's price increases. The point of the night hearing is that the government, which arrogantly wants to profit from price increases, sees helping people as a pointless cost, needs a change.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U699	Thank you very much, Mr Kadri Simson. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U700	Thank you. For starters, or finally, I would first like to congratulate the government. The government has done well. The Social Democrats have been saying for years that children's benefits are very small in Estonia, and that teachers' salaries are very low, and now the government has finally realized that you see that children's benefits are too low and teachers' salaries are too low. Unfortunately, we're running out of praise here. There was a wish, but unfortunately we were halfway there. We found EUR 9.6 for children's allowance, and this was the only one with lower incomes than EUR 150 for family members. In the case of teachers' salaries, we wanted to declare that we would find an opportunity to raise wages by 11%. Unfortunately, 11% did not find it, in fact, we found only 5% of the money. No other sources of cover were found, and the teachers' wage increase requirement, which was actually 20%, was not reached either. So in this sense, the government could be recognised when it is said that yes, there are problems in society, and I would like to solve them, but unfortunately, there is no way to do this. Of course, it makes it particularly sad that they are terribly trying to declare that the problems are coming to a solution. As far as teacher support is concerned, as I mentioned, it is clear from our budget where the sources of cover for teachers' 5% salary increase come from. Where it comes from for 11%, it doesn't count anymore. This really means that a teacher who reads a newspaper listens to a radio, watches television and wants to see an 11% increase in salary on his bank account from 1 January does not see it. He goes to the headmaster and asks why he doesn't get paid more. The director says there's no money, the mayor won't give it any more. The headmaster goes to the parish elder and says, "Oh, why don't you give me the money to pay the teachers?" The parole officer says, look, the government doesn't give, the minister's bad. Everyone's pointing the finger at everyone, but ultimately, the one who should get paid, that is, the teacher, the higher the salary in his bank account. And that's the problem. The Social Democrats have offered a solution to this. Unfortunately, at least in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this does not seem to be a positive response from the coalition. But there are other issues in the budget. The child benefit we have already mentioned, which we will receive from the least-serving society. But unfortunately, they too have to write a statement in order to see the money in their bank account. One thing that is clearly drawn up in this budget on various issues is that one important level in the country, the local government level, who has been able to shave very much with cuts, can still do so. This can be achieved through both teacher's salary and, for example, through income support. Although there, yes, probably at the end of the financial year, more money will be found. Although it has been said in the budget that we could have a decrease in the number of unemployed people and perhaps also in the number of beneficiaries of income support, the fact that we have an increase in the price of electricity and that it may also affect the amount of income support is not included in the budget explanatory memorandum. In this respect too, the Social Democrats have positive proposals. But, unfortunately, according to the vote in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, they do not seem to find the coalition's support. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U701	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U702	The government has entered into a contract with health workers, under which the additional money should go to the ambulance and to the salaries of residents, but unfortunately, neither can the budget provide a reasonable source of cover. One way to actually bring this money to health care workers is to postpone the promise given to the unemployed that unemployment benefit will rise to half of the minimum wage in 2013. In fact, there is a real source of cover in the state budget. As we know, the Government of the Republic reserves 4 million so-called 'roof money', which then the MPs could take to their county. It is precisely with this amount that it would be possible to cover the wage increases of ambulance workers and residents without the unemployed having to suffer. Such a proposal is also among the Socialist amendments. Since a responsible fiscal policy has always been important for the social democrats, the revenue side of our amendments is considerably higher than the cost side, which in other words means that we have given a hand to the government whose budget is in deficit. Our complex amendment would reduce the budget deficit. At the same time, we are concerned that the central government reserves will fall at a high rate, if they are more than 700 million this year, then only more than 200 million will be expected for next year. As a result, we have an amendment that will increase the reserve by EUR 200 million. To conclude, just as we have demonstrated with our amendment, a balanced budget and responsible monetary policy is certainly important, but it must be said that a country that only thinks about how the budget is balanced and does not think about how people live will eventually be the only country that lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U703	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. It seems that everyone has satisfied their calls, so I will conclude the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now begin serious work, i.e. a review of the amendments. There's 101 of them on this bill. Let's go! The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. My colleague Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U704	Please also in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U705	President of the Riigikogu, I ask you to vote on this amendment and before the vote, I ask you for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U706	Thank you. I wanted to point out that the President of the sitting, especially the President of the Riigikogu, followed very strictly the time when the delegates spoke. The same is what I ask of you now that the intermission has been taken for ten minutes, then the intermission has been taken for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U707	Mr Toobal, what is the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U708	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 14. I shall put to the vote Amendment 14, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 8 members of the Riigikogu, 32 against, there were no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 15 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U709	Thank you. I would ask for a vote on Amendment 278 to the bill, Amendment 15, and before that, I would like to ask for a two-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U710	Thank you. I have a question for you: who represents the Reform Party, you or Rein Aidma? Could be a procedural question? Got it! Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U711	I had the same wish as here before. The application's already on its way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U712	What exactly is that desire?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U713	I had the same wish as the last questioners, but I can cancel right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U714	Got it. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U715	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U716	I understand that everyone wanted to vote on this proposal. I would also like to ask for your proposal in writing. Before the vote, I declare a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U717	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 15. I shall put to the vote Amendment 15. Please take a stand and vote. There are 7 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, with 29 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 16, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U718	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U719	Any other suggestions? No, it's not. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U720	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 16. I shall put the 16th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu, 30 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to the next amendment, which bears the number 17. This has been presented by the Estonian Centre Party Group. After the debate, the lead committee came to the conclusion that the proposal would not be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U721	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U722	Thank you. Are there any other, alternative suggestions? No, it's not. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring recess, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U723	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on to Amendment 17 and will vote on it. I shall put to the vote Amendment 17 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 8 members of the Riigikogu, 28 against, there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move on to the next amendment, which is numbered 18. This has been presented by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the position of the commission is disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U724	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U725	Thank you. Please also in writing. I'm declaring recess, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U726	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I shall put to the vote Amendment 18 by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. For seven, against 27, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 19. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U727	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U728	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 26, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. For six, against 30, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 27. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U729	I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before this amendment, so that everyone can get acquainted with the amendment that we want to renovate one kindergarten.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U730	We'll vote on it in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U731	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 27 by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. For six, against 26, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The following is Amendment 28. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U732	I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 28 and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U733	That's great! We will vote on this proposal in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U734	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 28, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 7 was voted in favour, with 29 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U735	I'll wait a while, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U736	We will move to Amendment 29. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U737	On behalf of the IRL Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before that we will ask for two minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U738	Thank you. Two minutes. Mailis Reps, please, your suggestion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U739	Thank you. Since he has already been put to the vote, we are repeating the same proposal, but we would like eight more minutes, so please have a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U740	We will vote on this proposal in 2 + 8, i.e. in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U741	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 29 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please vote! Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 29 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 30 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U742	Dear Chairwoman of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 30 and before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U743	I'd love to. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U744	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 30th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 23 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 31, tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group, has been disregarded. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U745	I would like to vote on Amendment 31 and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U746	Break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U747	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 31 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! (meeting of 9 members of the Riigikogu), 26 votes against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 32, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, has been rejected by the commission. Please, colleague Mailis Reps! Hurry up, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U748	Faster? President-in-Office of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 32 and before voting, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U749	Break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U750	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 38 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 30 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 39 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U751	Dear Chairwoman of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 39 and before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U752	Thank you very much. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U753	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 39th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! I interrupt the vote. A little break that goes in ten minutes. [[Laughter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 39th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 38 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 40th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U754	Dear Chairwoman of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 40 and before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U755	I'd love to. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U756	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We have reached Amendment 40. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 40th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 9 members of the Riigikogu, 33 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to the next amendment, which is number 41. This has been submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the position of the commission is to disregard the proposal. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U757	Mr President, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment, and before that, I would like to ask you for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U758	Thank you! Please also present this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U759	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. We have reached Amendment 41. I shall put to the vote Amendment 41 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu, 34 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 42, tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the lead committee after the debate is to disregard the proposal. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U760	Mr President of the Riigikogu, on behalf of the Central Party Group, I would like to vote on Amendment 42, and before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U761	Thank you! Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U762	I have this question: where do the written statements that are written go? Can the members of the Riigikogu get to know this exciting material anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U763	Thank you. I'm sure they can meet you if you're interested. But they're moving about the same distance you're sitting in front of this hall, looking at your right hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U764	So?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U765	Then they stay on the table and check that the application complies with the rules of procedure and work. If the answer is yes... [[T. Grief at the line.]] You can come and watch them. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U766	The requested break is over. We are on Amendment 42. I shall put to the vote the 42nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu, 38 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 43 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the lead committee is to disregard the proposal. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U767	Mr President of the Riigikogu, on behalf of the Central Party Group, I would like to ask for the 43rd amendment to be voted and, before the vote, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U768	Thank you! I'm declaring recess, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U769	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U770	Great, I get it. This is a very serious criticism and I take it very seriously into account. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the very first amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the commission of the commission has taken full account of it. Please vote! 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has failed. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U771	Thank you, manager. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for a purely personal sympathy for Kadri Samson, before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U772	Good fellows, recess is over. We are at the eighth amendment. I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 8 members of the Riigikogu, 34 against, there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We will proceed to the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee, after discussions, is to be disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U773	The Estonian Centre Party Group requests a ten-minute break before the vote on Amendment 9!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U774	Thank you. I'm declaring recess! I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U775	Good fellows, recess is over. We are at the ninth amendment. I shall put to the vote Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu, 31 votes against and 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to the next tenth amendment. This has been presented by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the position of the commission is disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U776	Before the vote on Amendment 10, the Estonian Centre Party Group requests a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U777	Thank you! I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U778	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 8 members of the Riigikogu, against 34. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U779	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U780	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U781	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended; everyone has been able to think again about Amendment 11. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 7 members of the Riigikogu, 31st against, there were no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 12 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. After the debate, the position of the lead committee was not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U782	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U783	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U784	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 12. I shall put to the vote the 12th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 6 members of the Riigikogu, against 33. The proposal was not supported. Let us move on to the next amendment, which is numbered 13. It has been submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U785	Mr President, it seems to be quite an interesting proposal, but we do need a little extra time to discuss it. We ask for this amendment to be voted on, and I would also like to ask for a two-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U786	Thank you. That's a good suggestion! I declare a break and ask that you also bring this request in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U787	Good fellows, the recess taken by the Fatherland and Res Publica Association has ended. We are on Amendment 13. I shall put to the vote Amendment 13 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 5 members of the Riigikogu, against 28. The proposal was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 14 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U788	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U789	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U790	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Simson, the intermission is over. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please vote! 24 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by my colleague Rainer Vakra, the lead committee has failed to do so. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U791	As Mr Vakra has not yet reached the Chamber, I would ask for this amendment to be voted on. But before that, I will take a ten-minute break so that Rainer Vakra can vote on his own amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U792	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U793	Dear Riigikogu, I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by my colleague Rainer Vakra, has been left to account by the commission. Please vote! 10 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has not taken account of it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U794	President of the Riigikogu, I would like to ask for a vote on the fourth amendment concerning school food, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U795	Yeah, please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U796	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall vote on Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has not taken account of it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U797	I ask for a vote on Amendment 5 and I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote. The fifth amendment will help meet Jaak Aaviksoo's commitment to teacher raises, which is likely to require coalition ambassadors...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U798	Ladies and gentlemen, break! I have another comment. When putting an amendment to the vote, please state only the number. Since you could all present and explain your amendments well, only voting on these proposals will take place in this procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U799	I shall put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! 9 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 38 against and 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has failed. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U800	I would like to ask for an amendment concerning the pay of kindergarten teachers, i.e. vote on Amendment 6 and, before voting on the amendment, ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U801	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U802	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the commission has failed. Please vote! 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has not taken account of it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U803	I ask for the seventh amendment to be voted, and before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U804	Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U805	Good fellows, recess is over. I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let's keep going. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U806	The Group of the Estonian Centre Party is asking for the vote on Amendment 8 and before that I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U807	I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U808	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 19, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. For six, against 27, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The following amendment is No 20. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U809	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U810	I'm sure we'll vote for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U811	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 20, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. For four, against 26, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U812	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U813	We will vote on this proposal in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U814	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 21 by the Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of six, 23 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U815	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U816	We will vote on this proposal in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U817	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 22, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 7, 25 votes against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U818	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U819	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U820	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 23 by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has proposed to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. For eight, against 27, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 24. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U821	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U822	We will vote on Amendment 24 in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U823	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 24, which has been made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Steering Committee has proposed to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour by 5 votes to 25, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 25. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U824	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before that, as always, ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U825	As always, we'll vote in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U826	We have come to Amendment 25. I shall put to the vote the 25th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Steering Committee has proposed to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 7, 25 votes against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 26. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U827	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U828	We'll vote on it in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U829	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 32nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 9 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 29 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 33rd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has failed. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U830	Dear Chairwoman of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 33 and before the vote, a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U831	Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U832	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 33, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been neglected by the commission. Please vote! 11 members of the Riigikogu adopted the following opinion by 30 votes to 30, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 34th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U833	Dear Chairwoman of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 33 and before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U834	Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U835	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 34, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please vote! 10 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 33 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 35 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U836	Dear Chairwoman of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 35 and I ask you before this ten minutes break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U837	Yeah, I'd love to. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U838	Good Riigikogu, I will vote on the 35th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party and rejected by the commission. Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U839	There are 8 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, with 31 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 36th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U840	Dear Chairwoman of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 36 and before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U841	Ten minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U842	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 36, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 33 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 37 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U843	Dear Chairwoman of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 37 and before voting, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U844	Please, recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U845	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 37, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 35 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 38th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U846	Dear Chairwoman of the Riigikogu, please vote on Amendment 38 and before the vote, please take a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U847	I'd love to. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U848	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 43. I shall put to the vote the 43rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu, against 39. The proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, with regard to the implementation of the Thursday sitting, I will take the chairman's break of 13 minutes. Closure of the sitting at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-14_U849	I'd love to. Break.
