ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Dear members of the government, welcome to Question Time! We have the following members of the government in Question Time today: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us check the presence. 46 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 55 are missing. We will address today's questions, which have been raised in five.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U2	Heljo Pikhof has asked Prime Minister Andrus Ansip about needs-based education grants. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! While it is natural to assume that a student can cover his or her living expenses with the support of parents and student loans when living above the poverty line, a state contribution is also needed to support the student's studies with income below the poverty line, so stands in the explanatory memorandum to the draft study grants. If the child is from a family of unemployed parents or a single parent receiving a minimum wage and the family also receives income support, the child who is very, very in need of support will be deprived of the allowance because the need-based education allowance is included in the income of the family when applying for income support. My question is: what is the country's contribution to supporting a student living in deep poverty so that he can learn?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U4	Thank you. If a person is in deep poverty, regardless of whether he or she is a student, student, employee or pensioner, he or she has the right to receive assistance from the State. All national citizens are treated equally, for all, regardless of their occupation, income support is paid on an equal basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U5	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U6	In fact, that is the question of the need-based education allowance being included in the family's income when calculating income support, and the young person is deprived of the need-based education allowance. That is the concern that the children who need support most do not get it. My question, however, is what the country's contribution to supporting the student is.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U7	I am asking for forgiveness, but I cannot understand your question, because there is no need-based education support now. The Ministry of Education and Research has prepared a draft in order to provide students with needs-based study support, it is submitted to the government office and, in the near future, the Cabinet will discuss this issue. I very much hope that we will find the means to double the state support currently paid to students and start with the need-based support for students.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U8	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I'm talking about a press release from the Government of the Republic yesterday. It's exactly what it says about these students losing them. If a young person comes from a distance to study at the University of Tartu and family support opportunities are modest or non-existent, he or she will be forced to go to work because 135 euros will not be enough to pay for living expenses, food and other emergencies. And if he goes to work, it's pretty likely he won't be able to complete a hundred percent curriculum and have to take student loans to go to college at all. My question is, what kind of free higher education are we talking about when for poorer families, education becomes paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U10	Thank you. Well, he still doesn't get paid. But for the next time, tell me what you're talking about, whether you're talking about current education support systems or you're talking about a press release. Where am I supposed to guess you're talking about a press release? Learning will be free of charge for students who make good progress, but that does not mean that the whole person's maintenance, feeding, covering, etc. should be paid by the state, i.e. anonymous taxpayers. Education must be seen, among other things, as an individual's investment in his or her future and it is quite clear that there is a great deal of effort to achieve education anywhere in the world. It does not make much difference whether it is a welfare state such as Sweden or countries where there are not too many national scholarships. Students everywhere also need to work hard to get food and clothing. It is already very much granted by the state when the state provides education free of charge. In Sweden, by the way, students work more than they work in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U11	Thank you. Let us now take two questions registered on the spot. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U12	Mr Prime Minister! I ask that your government soon make a wise and just decision. According to the draft, a grant of EUR 135 would be granted to students with a family member's income of less than EUR 280 per month per person. I mean, they're from families where there's no hope for family support. For 135 euros, of course, it is not possible to pay for and live for housing; it is not possible to obtain a loan because they do not have guarantors. So you have to work. However, this student will receive support only if he or she completes the curriculum 100%, otherwise he or she will not receive support and will also pay tuition fees. Currently, such students are at least theoretically able to complete free education in places of GNP, complete the curriculum at 75%, beside it they can work, and if they are successful, receive support. Do you not think that the new system, which is currently on the table of the government, really deprives the children of the poorest families of their education?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U13	Direct answer: not found. The new system is undoubtedly better than the current system. As far as subsidies are concerned, the amount of subsidies should double according to the new system. And if there are twice as many grants, you might think that the problem is only a little less than it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U14	Thank you. The second issue registered on the spot. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U15	Thank you. I also argue that, according to the new concept, only children of wealthier families can study free of charge. A child from a poorer family has to go to work anyway, and as a result, he or she does not complete his or her curriculum as well as those who do not work. There will be a lag, and then he will lose his education free of charge, and he will have to pay for his education. Do you consider this to be an equal treatment, and do you think it is balanced?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U16	Thank you. I wouldn't want to share or develop your speculation in any way. There is no scientific work to confirm that students from better-income families work less often than students from less wealthy families. This correlation does not exist, this correlation certainly does not exist in Estonia, and I do not know that such correlation would have been discovered in other countries. In general, also in countries where parents are considered to be obliged to provide their children with a good education, including university education, students consider it essential that they be able to cover their own study costs, even in part, to be independent and completely independent of their parents in their studies. Such an increase in self-esteem can be observed, for example, among students in the United States, i.e. regardless of family income, the student tries to be as independent as possible. This is exactly what I can say about Swedish students from some studies. Young people face the challenge of being independent. I certainly do not share the view that the new system will make it more difficult for members of less wealthy families to receive education, certainly not if the amount of benefits doubles, after all, there is only a few fewer problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U17	Thank you very much. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U18	We will go to the next question that Riigikogu member Kadri Simson has put to the Minister Jaak Aavikkool. The subject is a school network. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U19	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Last week you published the 12 starting points for the education reform. One thing is to encourage cooperation between local authorities in basic education. Does this mean that, in addition to the closure of upper secondary schools, there will be a single primary school for several smaller municipalities? And if so, where does the money come from to transport students to school?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U20	Local authorities are already working together today because not all local governments in Estonia have general education schools. Such cooperation is fruitful and effective, and I believe that it must be encouraged in the course of the education reform, just as cooperation between local authorities, not only in the field of education but also in the provision of many other public services, must be encouraged.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U21	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U22	Thank you. Minister Aaviksoo! On the same day that you publicized the teas, you gave interviews and, for example, in the interview given to the "Actual Camera," you said that no additional support would be paid to children away from home for a week, as families would support their members anyway. In your opinion, what is the probability that 45,000 Estonian children living in absolute poverty will receive upper secondary school education after the closure of a near-home upper secondary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U23	I have no record that 45,000 children should go to schools so far away from their home that they should be gone for a week.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U24	Please, Kadri Simson, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U25	Thank you. According to the baselines of the organisation of the upper secondary school network of the Ministry in January, the state cooperates with local authorities in the creation of strong upper secondary schools, offering a separate financing model for the creation of clean upper secondary schools, and the decision-making powers had to remain with the local authorities. The principle that funding for basic schools and upper secondary schools will be deducted has also been included in the starting points for the education reform published last week. I conclude from this that if the municipality wishes to maintain a uniform basic school and upper secondary school, it must finance it itself. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U26	As far as financing of basic school is concerned, there are no fundamental changes to this plan. It is still under discussion, as has already been said, that the funding of basic schools and upper secondary schools will be reduced in order to avoid a regrettable practice in which an otherwise unsustainable grade of upper secondary school will be subsidised from the resources allocated to basic school. I therefore think that, in cooperation with local authorities, it should be very seriously discussed which upper secondary schools are affordable for the state and the local government, and which upper secondary schools are more appropriate for the establishment of state secondary schools in multilateral cooperation between local authorities and the state, or for example, as is the case for vocational education centres in Tartu, where the local government generally manages a vocational education institution under the responsibility of the state under an administrative contract. I believe that there are many more opportunities for cooperation here than has been used so far. As has already been said, no one can by force dispose of a school belonging to a local government or otherwise act unilaterally. But I hope that deepening cooperation for better education is not only in the interests of the state, but also in the interests of all local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U27	Thank you very much. Now, given the topical nature of the subject, let us take three issues registered on the ground. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The starting points for the education reform state that the network of upper secondary schools and vocational training institutions is designed in a coordinated, coherent manner. There are currently 30 vocational training institutions in Estonia. I understand that just as you believe that there should be 30 upper secondary schools in Estonia. My question: how many upper secondary schools are sufficient for Estonia, according to you, or how many upper secondary schools should the Ministry consider staying in Estonia after the completion of the education reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U29	Thank you for your question. I don't understand your speculation about 30 gymnasiums. I guess it comes from a different logic that I don't understand. However, it is clear that compared with practice in other countries, 220 upper secondary schools are obviously too many. If we have more than 100 upper secondary schools with fewer than 100 students in upper secondary school, this is a clear example that such upper secondary schools are not sustainable in the long term, especially given that in some regions, the number of children of upper secondary school age will fall up to twice in the ten-year term. It is therefore wise to act with a sense of perspective and to design a network of upper secondary schools that is sustainable in the long term. I have said here in the same speech chair and in other forums that, according to current perceptions, the indicative number would be 50-100 upper secondary schools. More specifically, this can be explained only in cooperation with local authorities during the forthcoming negotiations. At the same time, I would not rule out a solution to which the Finnish state, for example, is moving. There are common middle-level institutions designed in several counties, providing both general and secondary vocational education and up to 4,000 students. Although I do not think that we are ready for such a debate now, it is worth keeping in mind such rather progressive solutions in a ten-year perspective and possibly moving towards them at the pace that the Estonian state can achieve.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U30	Thank you very much. Please, Aadu Black, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U31	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister for Education and Science, I apologize if my question moves on those paths that have been partially answered. Of course, you don't have to repeat your answer. You talked so nicely about working with the local governments. The third starting point for the education reform is that the school network is designed to address, among other things, school transport and student accommodation problems. I wonder if there is already a more concrete plan on where local authorities can get money to increase school transport. Isn't that gonna be a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U32	The organisation of school transport for general education schools is predominantly the responsibility of the local government. In addition, the county network is now planned in Estonia and state budget subsidies are also planned for this purpose. In the consultations that the Ministry of Education and Research has held with rural governments as well as with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we, including me, have developed a rather clear understanding that the needs of educational institutions are already being designed with regard to the trans-regional transport network, whether it be vocational training institutions, higher education institutions, colleges of higher education institutions or some other educational institutions. Such a plan is made almost every year, given the specific situation that has developed. There is no point in planning abstract transport on a regional or supra- county basis. The state has mechanisms in place and, if the network of educational institutions changes, the county transport network should be planned in line with this. The creation of a separate school transport network, in addition to the regional transport network, is probably not feasible, at least according to today's perceptions. That is why, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we have developed the understanding that as soon as concrete changes are planned, we must come back to this issue and, if necessary, use additional national subsidies if there is a particular need for them. Abstractly, these orders of magnitude are such as should not constitute a fundamental obstacle to the organisation of the school network at this stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U33	Thank you. Please ask the third issue registered on site, Jaak Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U34	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few days ago, we had the opportunity to read that the Government of the Republic has allocated EUR 24 million of this money released from ERM to educational subjects. Thank you for that, I'm sure we'll all be delighted. But I'm asking you to explain this idea a little bit. First of all, the question arises as to how the European Union's tourism measure, under which ERM did not fit, can build school houses. Next: How are these houses selected? In particular, these amounts must be used up by 2015, but there are no projects at the moment. I'll just give you an example. Two years ago, the decision was made to build Viljandi State Gymnasium, the money was there and once again, thank you to the Ministry of Education for this! But there hasn't even been a fall in the ground now, because so many specific problems have arisen. And they definitely happen for every other object.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U35	Thank you, my good colleague, for your concern. This measure, through which these amounts are used, is a measure of regional competitiveness. I am deeply convinced that good education will boost the competitiveness of the regions, and hardly in Europe people think differently. I believe you also agree with this approach. As regards the selection of schools or, rather, applicants, it can be done under the regulation of the measure in question, which we are working on in quite good cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior so far. It lays down specific rules for the evaluation and identification of these projects. As far as the ability to realise these projects within the prescribed timeframe is concerned, this challenge is serious. We have, however, mapped out potential partners during the preparatory work and we believe that an undertaking can be achieved if there is good will. At the same time, I have no reason to doubt that local authorities want to invest an additional EUR 24 million in their school network, and we will also solve these technical problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U36	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U37	Let's go to the next question, that's Yana Toom's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip about the kapo yearbook. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U38	Madam President, thank you very much. Prime Minister! The Kapo website lists the tasks of this organisation, there are seven in total. Firstly, the collection and processing of information for the prevention and prevention of activities aimed at the violent transformation of the constitutional order and territorial integrity of the State; secondly, the collection and processing of information for the purpose of preventing intelligence activities against the State; thirdly, the collection and processing of information for the purpose of combating terrorism; fourthly, the protection of state secrets; fifthly, the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; sixthly, the fight against corruption; seventhly, the handling of offences. What do you consider to be the issue of the kapo yearbook?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U39	The Kapo Yearbook is part of the defense police communication. The Department of Defence is increasingly open to the public, but of course, as far as the working methods of this office allow it to be open. But in democratic countries all over the world, special services are increasingly open to their activities. The Yearbook of the Defence Police has become a very good communication tool in Estonia. I dare say that this is one of the most anticipated periodical publications in Estonia at all and that the resonance generated by it is usually very strong. People are starting to think along. I think that is the purpose of publishing this publication: to inform people to provide them with food for thought when they reflect on how our country could develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U40	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! As a journalist, I would argue with you. Periodic editions must follow the code of ethics of the press. If we look at the kapo yearbook with that look, it certainly doesn't follow that code. But here's my question. From time to time, in this Chamber, we bring laws into line with existing practice. Since it is obvious in the case of the Kapo Yearbook that it is not only about collecting and processing information, but also about publishing it and thereby influencing public opinion, do you not consider it necessary to complement the tasks of the Kapo by issuing publications and disseminating information in other ways, with a view to designing public opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U42	One question once again contained so many different nuances that when you start answering, most of these nuances cannot be answered. You're saying the kapo yearbook doesn't correspond to good press practice. I disagree. I've read this yearbook. I must say that there was not much news for me in this publication. I read it just because I knew you were asking me questions about this book, and it was important to me to find out exactly what it said. I dare say I haven't discovered any mistaken facts. But as a journalist, you do know that there have been enough problems with the wrong facts in the publications you've been working on. I can't find them in this yearbook. I've found one split error, but it's also the only mistake I've found in the kapo yearbook.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U43	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U44	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, I must contradict you again. I have worked in newspapers for 17 years, and I have lost one trial with your colleague Mr. Vaher. It was seven years ago, the rest I've always won. But that's it. From today's interview with the Kapo representatives, we learned in the Group that one of the yearbook's tasks is to report to which people you have to understand that you are taking a certain risk. This is a clear signal that the kapo figured should lose the reader's trust and be treated with a certain reservation. In this light, are you satisfied that three days after the Kapo Yearbook was published, the opposition in Tallinn City Council is planning to distrust Deputy Mayor Mikhail Kõlvart?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U45	I do not share the view that the yearbook of the Kapo yearbook is the reason for the opposition's mistrust to the Tallinn assistant city head. Although, if so, it is not deplorable when the publication has become so much food for thought that it has forced them to act properly. If there are any problems in this yearbook, there is no need to resolve these problems in court. You're proud that you've only lost once in court. I'd be proud if no one had the need to go to court against the press. In this case too, everyone will be able to turn to the press council and ask for the truth to be found there. I don't think there's anything to blame for this yearbook from a journalistic point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U46	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, a locally registered question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U47	Mr Prime Minister! I have a very specific question. Did you, Mr. Secretary of State or Mr. Minister of the Interior, have you read this book before it was printed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U48	No, it wasn't. And there's no need to get acquainted or censored. I do not, in principle, consider this task of the Prime Minister. The Department of Defence issues its own yearbook and is responsible for its contents. And as Raivo Time in the Preface has written, they do not claim to the final degree of truth, to the judgment, they claim to be informed. And this yearbook has done well to inform the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U49	Thank you. There are no more speeches on the ground on this issue. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U50	We will go to the next question, which is the question of a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Küti, about the fate of the schools of children with special needs of Minister Jaak Aak. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, A little over a month ago, I asked about the future of public educational institutions for children with special needs, or rather about the reform of the system. Then you replied that the reform was in the ministry and soon ready to be introduced. Indeed, in the starting points for the education reform agreed by the government, point 6 states that the general education restructuring plan must also include the organisation of education for children with special educational needs. My question is: how far away is this scheme? Is there a way to get acquainted with it, and will it also be introduced to the heads of the national schools where these children study? The parents of these children are concerned and the teachers are concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U52	Thank you for your question. As has been said, I promised that such a document would be completed, and this document has been completed. A press release has also been published on 28 March and has been published on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research. This is then the concept of training for children with special educational needs. We have sent it to all partners and asked for feedback by 14 May. I hope you find a way to get to know this document. I'm sure everyone who's interested will get to know it. As I said, it is a public document, on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research it exists. With regard to schools for children with special educational needs in general, there is considerable confusion about this because of their historical heritage. Some of these schools are administered by the state, some are managed by local governments, and there is ambiguity in the law. There have also been conceptual shifts in the pedagogy of children with special educational needs over the last few decades. We do not want to separate all these children from society as much as possible, but rather to integrate them as much as reasonable and possible. This concept is therefore necessary. I see no reason why people should be worried. Rather, there is a basis for a hopeful view of the future. Reasonably, it will certainly be possible to achieve both better quality education and greater social integration, as stated in the starting points of this concept and, hopefully, also reflected in the concept itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U53	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, A slightly more cheerful note on this issue is that schools of children with special needs in my country, or Viljandi County, will not really be closed. However, parents, as well as social workers, are concerned about children who are targeted outside the county. I'm just thinking about children with special health needs. For example, Helme School is shut down and these children find it very difficult to find a place in normal general education. A really difficult situation has arisen because we do not know where such students are going to continue to study. In schools where a study place can be obtained, they often fail to take into account their health and educational special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U55	First of all, a more general remark. You have hardly noticed the fact that there are currently a third fewer children in Estonia than 20 years ago. It's very hard to overlook, even if you really want it. This also applies to children with special educational needs. Special educational needs are statistically evaluable and the projections are more or less the same: when the overall number of children has decreased, the number of children with special educational needs has also decreased. Moreover, since today's democratic world has the notion that as many children with special educational needs as possible should study in mainstream schools, the number of children requiring special educational conditions has decreased by more than a third. Therefore, there is no shortage of study places in schools that are currently specifically designed for children with special educational needs. We just can't support all these buildings, in some cases they have a useful space for one student of over 100 m2. This is done at the expense of other salary and living conditions and is not feasible. On the basis of this concept and the development plan, we will indeed have to make decisions in the near future on the closure of schools for children with special educational needs. Which schools in particular and under what circumstances will be closed will become clear after a while. This is not now decided, but, as has already been said, needs to be weighed up on the basis of this concept. I believe there is no point in causing panic, these things must be discussed and decisions made based on real needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U56	Thank you very much, Minister Aaviksoo. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about Vastselina boarding school. The Võrumaa Official Journal has given a very good overview of this and the Ministry of Education has announced verbally that Vastseliina boarding school will be closed from 2013. At the moment, investments have already been stopped and the Ministry has said that there is no point in investing money in the forest. There are 42 posts in boarding schools; many local people work there. Regionally, the existence of this school is extremely important. Perhaps you will also consult with the Minister for Regional Affairs and decide that it would still be reasonable to keep this school?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U58	Thank you for your question. I've been to Vastseliina school myself. The future of the Vastseliina school has been under discussion in the Ministry for many years. It was clear a long time ago that the decreasing number of children raised the issue of the feasibility of schools and the reduction in their number. As of now, in Vastselina's school, if I'm not mistaken, 34 students will be down to 20 next year. As far as these 42 jobs are concerned, in understanding their importance in Vastselina, we are currently looking for possible solutions for Vastseliina's employment and regional development. However, we are honest with ourselves and with the taxpayers: simply maintaining jobs, if there is no need for them, will at some point become unreasonable. And then we must have the wisdom to decide how to proceed. This is not the solution if we go around as good uncles and say in Vastselina that another school is going to close, your school must stay for regional policy reasons. You gotta close schools somewhere. And when this decision has come this far, it must be dealt with calmly and without causing panic. All children's learning opportunities will be taken care of. I don't think there's anything to be afraid of. Regional policy job losses are a serious problem, but it is not reasonable to support schools without children in much richer countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U59	Thank you. Please ask the second issue registered on site, Jaak Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U60	Minister, thank you very much. I've been going to a couple of schools lately that we're talking about, and I'm really talking about it. I have also attended a school where there are 60 jobs for 70 children. I would not be discussing special educational needs, whether these children are better taught in mainstream schools or in such schools, this is a problem for specialists, and the opinions are different. But I have the impression that most of this contingent also has special educational needs, i.e. their socialisation in families is problematic, to put it mildly. Sending these children to families and regular schools can cost a lot more to society than having special schools and giving them the skills necessary to socialise there. To what extent have you had this aspect in mind when drawing up this concept?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U61	In drawing up the concept, expert advice has been taken into account to the maximum extent, and I believe that neither I nor the person asking for it is more competent than their own. As regards special educational needs, there are 24000 children with such special needs in Estonia according to the education information system. No one has ever thought that all the 24000 children should study in special schools where they are separated from the rest of the students. True, there are children for whom it is appropriate to teach them in schools with special or special conditions. The practice in different countries is different, but a model has been developed in Estonia on the basis of this concept, which can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Education. Once again: the concept is open to debate, the opinions of experts and specialists, as well as those of politicians, are welcome. We believe that the concept can be improved in this way. I find it not very constructive to start making spontaneous decisions here, whether a particular child fits into one school or another. Once again, look at the concept, make your own proposals! I believe that once they have been considered and approved by experts, they will also be taken into account in the future approved development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U62	Thank you. No further questions have been registered. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U63	We move to the fifth question put by Riigikogu member Rainer Vakra Prime Minister Andrus Ansip on averus projects. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U64	Good manager! Prime Minister! I have a question for you from the Alliance of Democrats in the Riigikogu, and it concerns a new word in Estonian such as the Averusprojekt or the Public Private Partnership project in English. The report of the National Audit Office to the Riigikogu analysed the cooperation of local governments with private partners in providing public services. And it turns out that local authorities usually initiate Avreus projects when there is an urgent need to implement a development plan that they lack money and knowledge. It often fails to consider whether this is the best, most effective solution for the taxpayer and whether the law is being complied with. According to the National Audit Office, the errors of local authorities in contracts for averus projects are due to the fact that the legislation governing averus is not unambiguous and it is recommended to develop unambiguous criteria. Hence the question: has the Government of the Republic examined the report of the National Audit Office and what concrete steps are you planning to take to improve the quality of legislation in order to avoid errors arising?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U65	I have studied the audit report of the National Audit Office and in the main I share its views. Fortunately, in Estonia, the Avreus projects as described by the National Audit Office are not very common. In several countries of Western Europe, PPP projects have been very common at some time and, as the National Audit Office has pointed out in Estonia, there has mostly been one and the same reason for implementing Avreus projects everywhere. Some kind of service has been sought quickly, but the local government has not had enough money to pay for the service. And like in Estonia, in many other countries of the European Union, local governments have had limits on loans. Unfortunately, in many cases PPP projects have been used both in Western Europe and Estonia to circumvent these restrictions. As I have already said, this practice in Estonia, fortunately, is not very extensive, but it does not mean that we do not have to deal with such misdemeanours. We certainly do!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U66	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U67	Prime Minister! In its report, the National Audit Office has identified a number of shortcomings in the selection of local governments and private partners, as well as in the handling of operations. However, the Minister of Finance does not wish to develop more precise criteria and will continue to interpret the law and advise on public procurement on a case-by-case basis, allowing an analysis of cooperation projects between local authorities and deciding whether or not long-term liabilities relating to projects should be included in the debt burden of the municipality. Hence the question: why does the Ministry of Finance not initiate the development of project-related guidelines and why is there no advice for project promoters, although in practice local authorities expect this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U68	However, with regard to this waiting, I would like to disagree with you because the municipalities still want to find some legal way to implement the dream project in such a way that the criteria for credit limits are also met. A case-by-case approach is a good legal approach. You can't judge that at all. Based on examples from European countries, we know that the palette for PPP projects is very, very rich, very, very different. There are so many forms and options for cooperation between the private sector and the public sector that it is practically impossible to grasp them with a single simple algorithm. Therefore, it is certainly reasonable to take into account nuances in specific case-laws and other cases. When a new law is created, its implementation will in turn create nuances, which will inevitably lead to the need to adopt a law amending the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U69	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U70	Thank you. Indeed, local authorities are launching Avreus projects precisely because they do not have the money to carry out their dream projects. At the same time, it can be argued that the Government of the Republic, which has cut the income base of the local government, can also be regarded as a co-responsible for pushing such a situation. Here I have such a friendly question for you: what good advice or magic wand would you give to current local government leaders to find a way to finance these dream projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U71	There's more work to be done! Then more tax money will probably be received, and it will probably be possible to carry out your dream projects. Not all averus projects are projects condemned by the central government or also by the National Audit Office. These projects, which simply survive their abilities, are condemned to use legally correct schemes to circumvent national laws. These projects are deplorable. We have often seen Avreus projects where all risks remain with the public sector, the obligation to pay remains with the public sector, but the possibility of earning remains with the private sector. And such projects, of course, neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Government as a whole likes them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U72	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U73	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Prime Minister! Speaking of averus projects, the Government of the Republic opened the program 'Schools Order! ' and through State Real Estate. Local authorities were invited to give building rights to the State Real Estate in the case of their school buildings. At first, it was also said that these commitments were not included in the same loan burden, and most of the schools that were then put in place jumped immediately to 100%, in any case over the percentage allowed by its laws. My question is, if you look back on it today 'Schools order! ' to the project and to the State Real Estate editorials, then maybe a bit of a false signal was given, and today you have to admit that this was not the best solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U74	This financial scheme was not that the best solution, it was not at all a good solution. All the municipalities that repaired their school houses through Riigi Kinnisvara AS had to report that they would assume a certain obligation to pay for their school buildings in front of Riigi Kinnisvara AS. They could have assumed that this obligation would once be filled in with their debt. As a hindsight, it should be said that your current party partner Jaak Allik and I talked about the fact that these repairs to school buildings through Riigi Kinnisvara AS must be reflected in the local government's debt burden, even when this 'Schools Order!' ' the project was implemented. But hindsight is an exact science. If it had been for everyone to realise that the debt was foreign, that the obligations had to be fulfilled, then the municipalities would certainly not have gone into too much debt. But as a whole, it's'schools times! 'The project wasn't a bad project. It served its purpose, and we cannot now say that it would not be possible for us in Estonia to read over the municipalities that have encountered problems 'Schools Order! ' because of the project.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U75	Thank you. Inara Luigas' question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U76	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Averus projects have been underway for years, and there are problems with them. And the problems have also deepened because one and the other minister has refused to deal with these matters in substance. The State Budget Control Committee discussed this and asked whether the rural governments, the rural elders, had some kind of responsibility. They're supposed to be monitoring. Nor does the Minister for Regional Affairs have any responsibility, nor does he wish to offer a solution, even though the municipalities and local government associations are keen to cooperate and improve the situation. It is also a question of how long-term liabilities are, however, reflected in the accounts balance sheet. I ask you: would you give the direct minister, the Minister of Finance, certain tasks and what would be the near future cooperation with local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U77	There are accounting rules in Estonia and they apply to all persons, including local governments. All liabilities must be included in the balance sheet of the company or also of the local government. It may be discussed whether the obligations relating to averus projects are those which must be recognised as a one-off obligation or may be spread over decades. There is no universal solution; a case-by-case analysis is required. If the municipality rents the premises from a private person or from a private company and does not have any fixed-term liabilities, of course, specific lease payments are included in the balance sheet. However, if there is a contract under which a private partner builds a building and the local government undertakes to pay certain rental payments over a period of 10 to 20 years, covering the costs of building this building, then it is already a completely different question. I would argue that the accounting rules are currently applicable to everyone, including local authorities. It is not possible to make much more uniform rules. Each individual case must be analysed separately and the overall assessment made. But I'd like to come back to the last question again, it was'schools order!' ' about the project.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U78	Good Prime Minister, time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U79	I don't think it's a typical Avreus or PPP project.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U80	Thank you. This question, too, is exhausted, and I will stop dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U81	Since we have a few minutes left in Question Time, it is possible to ask the members of the government a question registered on the spot. Please tell me who the question is meant for, and ask your question! The fastest was Helmen Hunter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U82	Thank you, Madam President. I want to ask the Minister for Regional Affairs, Mr. Kisler. The upper secondary school reform carried out by the Ministry of Education and Research is likely to solve directly the problems of administrative reform. What is happening on the school network is likely to lead to a situation where the few people who still live in the country are moving to where there are schools, as the children's journey to school and the distance from home can become a major social problem. How do you feel about whether the way in which the reform of upper secondary school or the education reform is carried out should also be the subject of a very high level of attention from the Minister for Regional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U83	Of course we're watching it, but otherwise, it doesn't seem like what you think. The question was, how do I feel? First of all, the quality of education for parents, not the proximity of schools to home, is becoming increasingly important. By the way, we can see more and more that in smaller rural areas the distance between home and school is considerably smaller in minutes than in the vicinity of Tallinn, for example. Secondly, as the Minister of Education and Science has already pointed out here, we already have municipalities in Estonia where general education is not given at all. And, of course, there are very many municipalities in whose territory there is no upper secondary school that does not provide upper secondary school education. Nevertheless, people live in these places too, and obviously these things are not directly dependent on whether there are residents and whether upper secondary school education is provided. Thirdly, there is a great deal to be said in Estonia that the survival of residents in a given region depends on whether there are educational establishments there. However, obviously the main bottleneck is the availability of jobs, not so much education. If we look at our rural areas, as I have already emphasised, there is generally no shortage of school places in the countryside. We can see a shortage of school places around Tallinn, but not in remote areas. Jobs and their location are still a key issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U84	Thank you very much. I will stop dealing with this question because Question Time is running out. Many thanks to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Education and Science and the Minister for Regional Affairs. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U85	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 12th working week.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U86	First of all, we have a festive moment ahead of us: the appointment of Mr Kalmo to the office of Deputy Chancellor of Justice is a pleasant opportunity to listen to his oath of office. Dear Hent-Raul Kalmo, I beg you to speak to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U87	I pledge to remain loyal to the people of Estonia, the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order, and in accordance with my conscience, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia, to carry out impartially all the duties for which I am obliged by the Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U88	Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U89	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U90	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have two initiated drafts to hand over. The first is the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. As we all remember, on 21 March this year, the Chancellor of Justice proposed to the Riigikogu No 14, which asked for § 377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure to be brought into line with § 76 and 139 of the Constitution. The plenary session of the Riigikogu supported the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 14 at its meeting on 5 April. As a result, pursuant to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Board of the Riigikogu instructed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to initiate a draft amendment to a law contrary to the Constitution. The Constitutional Affairs Committee discussed this issue and based on the position of the Chancellor of Justice in the Riigikogu, as well as the analysis carried out by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu on 15 March, we found that the quickest and most sensible way to bring § 377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the Constitution is to re-establish the previous Act in force until 31 August 2011. I would also like to point out here that the Chancellor of Justice and the President of the Republic will be given a 30-day deadline instead of ten days for filing an application. The second draft we have initiated is the draft law supplementing the law on political parties. Its purpose is to regulate the level of the remuneration for attendance at meetings and other Commission tasks. It was decided to provide for 25 times the minimum hourly rate of remuneration established by the Government of the Republic, which is exactly the same as that of a member of the Election Commission of the Republic. The law would enter into force retroactively from 1 January 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U91	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U92	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address a series of questions on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group to the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia, Jürgen Ligi. It's basically next. The press has considered the planned changes in the structure and work of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. They provide for the transfer of work organisation from the regional model to the sectoral model. Instead of the four administrative service areas so far, a single area is proposed. The district centres located in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Jõhvi will be liquidated and the centres of competence will continue to operate instead. As a result of the restructuring, 160 jobs will be made redundant, 40 of which are currently outstanding. These changes have so far been insufficient to explain to the public, which has led us to some questions. There are four questions and we are asking the Minister to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U93	Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I will hand over two draft decisions. The first concerns the establishment of a special committee on state budget control. We propose that Tarmo Tamm be appointed a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control instead of Inara Luigas and an alternate member of the Olga Sõtnik instead of Lembit Kaljuvee. The second draft is the draft amendment to the Riigikogu's decision to 'establish a Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to determine the circumstances relating to the granting of temporary residence permits to foreigners'. We propose that Mr Aivar Riisalu be replaced by Mr Kalle Laanet and Mr Peter Võsa as an alternate member of this committee instead of Mr Aivar Riisalu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U95	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and one inquiry. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to adopt them into the procedure in accordance with this Act, and if the inquiry complies with the requirements of the Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall immediately forward them to the addressee. Now I'll give you a few messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Family Law, launched on 16 April, and appointed it as the commission of directors of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has approved the following changes in the composition of the permanent committees of the Riigikogu: member of the Cultural Commission of the departure of member of the Riigikogu Eldar Efendijev and member of the Committee on the Environment; member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of a member of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo leaving the Committee on Monetary Affairs; member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of a member of the Committee on the departure of a member of the Riigikogu, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Mr Kadri Simson; member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of Priit Tobal leaving the Riigikogu; member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of Mrs Marika Tuus-Laul leaving the Riigikogu member and member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Committee on taking up the Committee on European Union. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. I also announce that the members of the Riigikogu formed an association of democrats of the Riigikogu yesterday, April 17. And now, ladies and gentlemen, please, let's do the presence check! Eighty-four delegates have been registered as present, and 17 are missing. Let's clarify today's agenda. On the third item, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 15 on the calculation of unemployment insurance, the Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Deniss Borodich, and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When discussing today's 11th item, Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The 11th item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U96	We begin the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, the International Sanctions Act and the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act 157. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let's get to the final vote. I vote on the draft Act 157 on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, the International Sanctions Act and the Amendment of the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act. Please take a stand and vote. 81 parliamentarians voted in favour, no votes against or abstentions. Bill 157 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U97	The second item is the second reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled 'Enlargement of the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the Development Bank of the Council of Europe'. I would like to address Mr Andrus Saare, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft of 196 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the Council of Europe Development Bank' on 16 April 2012. No amendments were received by the deadline of 13 April. The members of the Commission also had no questions and no debate was launched. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda on Wednesday 18 April, to close the second reading and to put it to a final vote. Eight members of the Commission voted in favour of this decision, no votes against and two abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U99	Thank you, Andrus Island! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments were received and the proposal of the commission is to put the draft decision to a final vote after the end of the second reading. We shall prepare the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the Development Bank of the Council of Europe', presented by the Government of the Republic, draft 196. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 60 votes in favour, no one is against, with 1 abstention, the draft decision has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U100	As the third item on the agenda, we will be listening to the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 15 on the calculation of unemployment insurance. This is a proposal to bring Article 7 (2) of the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the Constitution. For a presentation, please, Chancellor of Justice of the Chair, Indrek Tederi. The time for the presentation is 20 minutes and the time for the next performers is 20 minutes. Please, Indrek Teder!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I've proposed to you, and I'm not going to recount it here. I'm stressing a few moments. In my opinion, unemployment benefits are not covered by unemployment benefits, or they receive benefits for a much shorter period than they might be entitled to, for the simple reason that there are scissors between the contested provision of the Unemployment Insurance Act and the real life. These scissors consist of employers paying unemployment insurance contributions as if every month required by the Unemployment Insurance Act, but in fact the employer may not pay such a fee every month. The employer can pay these payments for several months in one month and therefore not pay any payments for the employee every month, while the employer can act perfectly legally when paying this fee for several months in one month. For example, if the employer pays the employee a holiday fee and salary at the same time before going on this longer holiday, or if the employee is paid both salary and final salary at the same time when the contract of employment for up to 12 months is terminated, the employer has complied with the Employment Contracts Act. If the employer does not make payments to the employee every month, but also pays unemployment insurance premiums on his own behalf and on behalf of the employee for several months, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund will have the impression that the employee has received payment for only one month. For the remaining months, the employee has not been paid according to the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. As a result, the employee of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund counts as an unemployment insurance period only the month in which the employer paid the employee these fees. In other words, the sickness insurance fund considers the fee received for several months to be a one-month payment, while the remaining month, for which the employer actually paid the salary to the employee, is excluded from the calculation of unemployment insurance. In other words, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund could not behave because it is bound by § 7 (2) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, according to which the insured person receives one month's insurance period for each calendar month during which the insured person was paid a fee for which the unemployment insurance contribution has been withheld in accordance with the procedure laid down in that Act. Thus, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund must be based on the month in which the unemployment contribution was also paid on behalf of the employee, regardless of whether the fee was paid for one or several months. This confirms that the scissors between the law and real life are caused by the Unemployment Insurance Act itself, not by its application. The aim of the legislator, in the absence of or payment of unemployment benefit for these workers during a significantly shorter period of time, was to ensure the effective functioning of the unemployment insurance system and the easy control of the data underlying the calculation of the benefit. Although the legislator's objective is fully understandable, the law unduly causes very serious consequences for insured persons in the event of unemployment. The person is completely deprived of the benefit or receives it for a much shorter period. In my opinion, this law is word-writing for these workers because it leaves people unprotected, for which they are insured. That is why I am of the opinion that § 7 (2) of the Unemployment Insurance Act is contrary to the first sentence of § 12 (1) of the Constitution because of its disproportion in so far as the insured person, who has been deprived of unemployment benefit in one month at a time by the employer, is liable for several months' unemployment insurance contributions, as opposed to the insured person to whom the employer has paid the remuneration subject to unemployment insurance every month, is deprived of the unemployment benefit or provides this benefit for a substantially shorter period. In order to ensure that the person who is actually insured for unemployment does not lose his or her benefit or not receive compensation for a much shorter period than he or she might be entitled to, I would ask the Riigikogu to bring Article 7 (2) of the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U102	Thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, everyone has the opportunity to ask the rapporteur a question. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Chancellor Indrek Teder! I would like a chair of the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Deniss Borodichi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also discussed proposal No 15 of the Chancellor of Justice at its meeting on 16 April. In addition to the Chancellor of Justice, Mr Pevkur, Minister for Social Affairs, had been invited to take part so that members of the committee could also know his views. The discussion was quite constructive. We spoke of both possible contradictions with the Constitution and possible solutions in the elimination of this unconstitutionality. In general, the Commission took the view that we supported the Chancellor of Justice's proposal 15. We concluded in our debate that the main factor in deciding whether this provision is unconstitutional is that it is a compulsory insurance system. The state has made one insurance relationship mandatory and if the person has indeed paid regular payments, he or she has the right to assume that if the risk materialises and he or she becomes unemployed, he or she will also receive compensation. The state should not have much discretion here to decide, for any reasonable reason, that certain groups of persons will be deprived of compensation because there is some risk of fraud and of breaking the law. Such exclusion could be comparable, for example, to expropriation, since the person's insurance premium and any compensation would be taken away from him. It is therefore possible to consider a breach of ownership in this situation. And, of course, the objective of facilitating administration should not outweigh unequal treatment and the violation of ownership. We also asked the Minister for Social Affairs whether he felt that this provision was contrary to the Constitution. He acknowledged that there really was a problem. There was also a great deal of talk about possible solutions in the Commission, but this is already the music of the future when the House decides to support the proposal and starts to think about possible provisions and drafts to eliminate the contradiction. As I said, we decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 15, which will be discussed today in the Riigikogu plenary session. We decided by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U104	Thank you. It's time for questions. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U105	Thank you. Dear waitress, In the Commission, you certainly discussed that, as a result of the legislative amendment, provision should also be made for the ex post redress of injustices for these people in some way. What were the options under consideration? How much can it be compensated afterwards? Would these people get some of the compensation they missed? And maybe you can tell me how many people are caught in the cogs of the current code?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U106	Good question! However, I stress that the Commission's main objective was to discuss whether § 7 (2) of the Unemployment Insurance Act is contrary to § 12 (1) of the Constitution or not. This was the biggest task of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We found this to be contradictory, and we also proposed it to the House. If the House agrees with the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, then the Committee on Social Affairs will probably be able to remove the conflict. He will then probably develop measures that will resolve the contradiction. One regulation will be how this law enters into force. We in the Commission did not discuss it this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U107	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U108	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna ask a kid's mouth about that. Perhaps you have also discussed in the committee the issue of how to prevent the Riigikogu from adopting laws that are contrary to the Constitution in the future. It is not at the end of the knee that draft laws are written, they pass long circles of coordination, they are examined under the glass, but the result is that they are not in conformity with the Constitution. Have you discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U109	That is not what we have discussed. It seems to me that this is a rhetorical question. The Chancellor of Justice has also proposed several amendments to one law or another to the House, which he considers to be incompatible with the Constitution. There is certainly no reason to claim that, on the initiative of the Chancellor of Justice or on the initiative of a political group or a parliamentary association, there can be no plenary sitting on such a subject. But I do not know whether this problem is due to the fact that sometimes no proper analysis has been made of the possible effects of the law or anything else. I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U110	Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Thank you very much, Deniss Borodich. Now a presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Committee of the commission of the draft of the law that was once before in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U111	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 15 on the calculation of unemployment insurance at his extraordinary meeting on 12 April. With regard to the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to bring § 7 (2) of the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the first sentence of § 12 (1) of the Constitution, we formed our position at today's session. So we held two sessions on this subject. The reason was that, at our first sitting, we heard the opinions of both the Chancellor of Justice and the various parties on this issue. The Social Affairs Committee was interested in the position of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, which was taken at the committee meeting this week on Monday. That is how we formed our final position on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice only at today's ordinary meeting of the Social Affairs Committee. On 12 April, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, Head of Department I of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice Kärt Muller, Head of the Legal Department of the Unemployment Insurance Fund Ira Songisepp, Head of the Office for Direct Taxes of the Tax and Customs Board kt Aule Kindsigo, Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Merle Malvet, Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs Teet Torgo and Specialist of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Marina Jefrosina took part in the discussion. The Chancellor of Justice introduced his proposal and stated that § 7 (2) of the Unemployment Insurance Act is contrary to the fundamental right to universal equality arising from § 12 (1) of the Constitution. The law leaves the unemployed who have paid unemployment insurance tax, or have insured themselves for unemployment, completely without unemployment benefit, or allows the benefit to be paid for a significantly shorter period if the employer has not paid unemployment insurance tax every month. The Unemployment Insurance Act provides that the insured person is to take into account one month's insurance period for each calendar month in which the employer paid the insured person's remuneration on which the unemployment insurance contribution was withheld. The Chancellor of Justice has already explained here what the actual situation and its legal background are. It is right that a person who has paid unemployment insurance contributions may be treated unfairly and unfairly after becoming unemployed. The Chancellor of Justice also refers to its inconsistency with the Constitution. We discussed the solutions with representatives of the tax administration, the unemployment fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs quite a bit. We did not find a final solution, but today's decision relates primarily to the Riigikogu initiating the procedure in order to bring this provision into line with the Constitution. The unanimous position of the Committee on Social Affairs is that we must ensure equal treatment for our citizens, no matter how complex a specific administrative solution is. On this basis, the Social Affairs Committee decided by consensus to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 15 to bring § 7 (2) of the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the first sentence of § 12 (1) of the Constitution. And if the Riigikogu decides today in this Chamber to support the Chancellor of Justice, I hope that we will be able to resolve this contradiction as soon as possible, under the leadership of the Social Affairs Committee as the lead committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U112	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Ladies and gentlemen, is there a wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Now we have to vote through the Chancellor of Justice's proposal 15. Let's get to the voting procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 15. Who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal? Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted for by 73 parliamentarians, no one was against or impartial. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 15 has been supported. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, in accordance with § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I task the Social Affairs Committee with initiating a draft to bring the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U113	We come to the fourth item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Buildings Act, the Housing Cooperatives Act, the Apartment Ownership Act and the Building Cooperatives Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Economic Commission, Mr Arto Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U114	Ladies and gentlemen, Let me present the draft procedure in the Committee on Economic Affairs between first and second readings. The draft law amending the Buildings Act, the Housing Cooperatives Act, the Housing Property Act and the Building Cooperatives Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 January this year. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 7 March. The deadline for submitting amendments by 12 noon on 21 March was two amendments received by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The commission discussed the draft for preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 9 April, including representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Margus Sarmet, Head of the Construction and Housing Department, and Ülle Reidi, Head of the Construction and Housing Department. The Committee on Economic Affairs also decided to table its own amendments on the basis of the discussions before and after the first reading of the Committee and the proposals submitted to the Commission. The Committee on Economic Affairs finalised 16 amendments to the draft, 13 of them on the basis of proposals from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The vast majority of these proposals are of a technical nature. A serious debate took place between the members of the Commission and the representatives of the Ministry, and we discussed all the amendments. I will also present some of the most important issues here. Two amendments by the Estonian Centre Party Group concerned the procedures for issuing the energy label and the role of local government in issuing them. The Commission decided not to take these proposals into account on the basis of the explanations of the amendments and the objections raised at the Commission's meeting. According to the current Building Act, energy labels are issued either by ensuring an internal climate in building or by major renovations, or by transferring or renting a building or its separate part for remuneration. For existing buildings, the energy performance certificates shall be issued by the company issuing them and shall be valid for a period of 10 years. An energy label shall be issued by the design company to a new building with an internal climate. In order to obtain a building permit, the energy label shall be added to the application for a building permit submitted to the local government, in other cases the energy labels shall be entered in the building register by the company issuing the energy labels. Therefore, local authorities do not currently verify the accuracy of all energy performance certificates issued. The accuracy of the data to be applied to energy performance certificates can and will continue to be verified by the Technical Monitoring Authority. The proposed regulation that energy performance certificates are issued only on paper would not increase the quality of energy performance certificates. The members of the Commission expressed the opinion that the registration of the energy label by local authorities would not increase the reliability of the energy label, but would make the whole process longer and more costly. It was found that the addition of one party to the process would rather dispel responsibility. The members of the Commission also expressed the view that we cannot impose an obligation on the local authority to issue and control energy labels, because they are currently unable to fulfil this obligation in practice. The Commission also decided to disregard the proposal made by the Centre Party Group that the costs incurred by the local government in ordering an energy label should be borne by the state budget. The proposal of the initiator's representative in the proposed wording was not supported by the reason that, according to the version already in force, buildings with more than 1000 m2 of useful surface have to be fitted with an energy label in a visible position for visitors. Under the new directive, the energy label must be installed in a visible place for visitors in buildings where the public or local authority has more than 500 m2 of useful space. Thus, real costs for local authorities can only arise for buildings with a useful surface area of between 500 and 1000 m2 and which are owned by local authorities. When renting the premises, the municipality, as a tenant, can submit the requirement to issue an energy label to the owner of the building. The purchase of the energy label is a one-off cost of EUR 100-200 per label, which can be covered by the maintenance costs of the building. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has no information that some local authorities have not yet ordered an energy label because of a lack of money. The requirement to place an energy label on a building itself is a consequence of the Directive, but it also provides information to a person on the energy performance of a building far from it. The purpose of the energy label is to raise awareness of energy efficiency among local government leaders and residents. It is therefore in the interest of the municipality to order an energy label. It was also stated that the ordering of the energy label would not be compensated for by private individuals and housing associations, although certain local and national institutions have in their time supported the ordering of such labels. Finally, the decisions of the Committee on Economic Affairs: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 18 April 2012, to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 2 May. All the Commission's decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U115	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Arto Aas! Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The energy market opening in 2013 and the continuing need to invest in new energy generation capacities, energy transfers and distributions suggest that energy prices will continue to rise in the coming years. The social democrats therefore support the objective of making our buildings more energy-efficient. The energy-saving nature of buildings is a win-win situation. However, the transposition of these European Union standards, the introduction of minimum energy efficiency requirements and the obligation to provide the energy label to buildings alone do not ensure that all new buildings are actually built for energy efficiency, not to mention old buildings. The energy efficiency sign on the wall of the building does not yet guarantee an energy-saving house. Long-term measurable targets, policies and financing must be set out for energy saving in existing buildings. Minimum energy performance requirements and energy efficiency criteria for public money buildings in public procurement tenders should be laid down. Urve Palo, Vice-President of the Economic Commission, spoke about these issues at first reading, and I am not going to repeat his proposals on this board again. However, the most questionable of this draft law is the fact that the energy performance of the house is currently assessed in accordance with the decree of the Government of the Republic on minimum energy efficiency requirements adopted in 2007 through an arbitrary energy efficiency ratio that has nothing to do with the actual energy performance of the building. You may ask: how so? The point is that household electricity consumption is also taken into account in the calculation of energy efficiency. At the same time, the already flawed regulation of the Government of the Republic is intended to make the minimum energy efficiency requirements even worse and to increase the weighting factor of the electric energy carrier from the current 1.5 to 2. This means that the energy consumption of all electrical equipment must be multiplied by two. However, the amount of electricity I consume for lighting, household appliances and other electrical equipment, such as a water heater, does not indicate the energy efficiency of the building. In order to meet future building energy efficiency standards, household electricity consumption needs to be limited. You may have a perfectly insulated house, but you still don't meet the energy efficiency standard, especially when there's a lot of people in the house and a lot of home appliances, water heating, lighting. According to the Regulation, energy efficiency shall not exceed 150 kW-hours per square metre. A situation has been created where smaller and more economic houses are hit because the costs are divided by the square meters of the heated surface, i.e. the less the surface is, the greater the number of energy efficiency will come and the more heat and savings will have to be. Two people on a 200 square meter score far better than four people on a 100 square meter. It's nonsense. In view of the expected increase in electricity prices due to the opening of the electricity market, there is no reason to be interested in low electricity consumption and therefore artificial constraints on electricity consumption do not need to be further increased. Increasing such artificial constraints will discourage the introduction of rational technical solutions and encourage unduly costly and unreasonable solutions. Since part of the electricity is produced in cogeneration plants and in wind farms that are integrated into the integrated grid, there is no justification for putting green and ecological energy production in an even worse position than it is now. The Social Democrats consider that the weighting factor of 1,5 should continue to apply to electricity purchased from the grid. In conclusion, the aim of the amendments to the law, while being met, is to let Brussels know that it has been done, but our comments and proposals should certainly be taken into account by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the future, otherwise the changes will not be incomplete and the objectives will not be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U117	Thank you very much. Please, any more requests? There's no more calls. We will examine the amendments. The first amendment from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the proposal of the commission, is to take full account of it. The second, third and fourth amendments are also from the Committee on Economic Affairs; they have been fully taken into account by the commission. The fifth amendment is made by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U118	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U119	Proposal No 5 is not to be voted on in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. Proposal No 6 is made by the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The seventh amendment is made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission proposes not to take it into account. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U120	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U121	I shall put this amendment to the vote. Please let us prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on an amendment by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 23 votes to 46, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8 from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee, should be fully taken into account. Amendment 9 from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 10 from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 11 from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 12 from the Economic Commission, the lead committee, should be fully taken into account. Amendment 13 from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 14 from the Economic Commission, the lead committee, should be fully taken into account. Amendment 15 from the Economic Commission, the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 16 from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 17 from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 18 from the Economic Commission, the lead committee proposes that this be fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments. Second reading of the bill is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U122	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present Annely Akkermanni, member of the Chair Committee on Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U123	Hello, good President. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act was completed on 21 March this year; the deadline for submitting amendments was 4 April at 16 a.m. No amendments were received, while the responsible official had proposed language changes to the draft, agreed with the Ministry of the Environment. The Commission agreed to linguistically amend the first sentence of the new wording of Paragraph 11 (5) of the Environmental Charges Act, as set out in point 2 of the draft, and to formulate it as follows: 'In the case of inland waters where the State is spending on the recovery of the eel stock, the right to fish shall be charged for the fishing gear used to catch eel, taking into account all the costs incurred for the recovery of the eel during the seventh to twelfth calendar years preceding those waters. ' The Commission accepted the need to supplement this point in this way. The Commission took the following decisions by consensus: First, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act be included on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 18 April; to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading be stopped and that the second reading text and explanatory letter be submitted to the Riigikogu plenary; if the second reading is completed on 18 April, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the third reading be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 2 May, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U124	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much. Is there a desire to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. As no amendments were received, the second reading of draft 187 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U125	The sixth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kalev Lillo, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U126	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of what has happened with the draft law amending the Traffic Act 182 between two readings. The first reading was held on 21 March this year and the deadline for amendments was 4 April. Two amendments were received at that time. One amendment was proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs in cooperation with the initiator, the other was by the Social Democratic Party. As regards the content of these proposals, the first replaced the word 'road transport' by 'road traffic'. It may seem that this is a relatively small change, but when it comes only to road transport, it would not extend to urban roads. If we introduce the definition of 'road traffic', we can extend this whole directive to both urban streets and roads. The second amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party did not concern the transposition of this directive, which is the meaning of the law on traffic, but was entirely new. It was proposed to amend § 15 (5) of the current Traffic Act, which refers to towed equipment. The current wording is that the maximum authorised speed for the towable equipment is 25 kilometres per hour. The proposal was to include 'or what was promised by the manufacturer'. It was therefore proposed to reduce this speed limit where possible. We discussed this in the Commission, but could not support the proposal for two reasons. Firstly, because so far we do not have a register of trailers, in fact they do not have to be registered. Such a proposal has been made by farmers at the time when the traffic law was processed, but it is not possible to fix the maximum permitted speed of a particular trailer. Figuratively speaking, anyone can take some kind of paper out of their pocket and say, look, this is the limit speed of my trailer and let me tow it at that speed. Another reason why this proposal could not be supported was that all the bottlenecks in the traffic law that have emerged in almost a year have been planned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to liquidate as one block and bring the whole together before the Riigikogu. In addition, the following procedural decisions were taken: to send the draft to second reading on the agenda of the plenary session on 18 April, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to carry out the third reading on 2 May. These decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U127	Thank you. There's a question for the waitress. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U128	Thank you. First of all, I'm not happy with that second explanation. According to the title, this is a law amending the Traffic Act, and if the initiator of the draft had wished, he would have had a second title. We were based on the fact that all traffic laws were open. Now for this change that unfortunately did not go through. I cannot understand this explanation, which the Commission has remarkably added to it. The question isn't that anyone gets a piece of paper from anywhere. It is not quite the case that one uncle writes to another proof that this trailer can be driven so fast. The factory will provide this document. And if we had that register, they wouldn't get there from anywhere else, if it wasn't from the factory. If the factory lets us drive faster, what's the problem? The traffic's going better.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U129	Thank you for your question. I'm not the kind of specialist I can argue about. However, as explained to us in the Commission, it is not possible to take the permissible speed of trailers anywhere at the moment. If we're talking about a manual, where do we get it? This may be information printed off some random website, which may not be quite right. If there were a register, it would indicate the maximum permissible towing speed for a particular trailer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U130	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns the amendment tabled by the commission, namely the replacement of the word 'road transport' by 'road traffic'. When, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we discussed the concept of home in connection with the release of land under homeland from land tax, we found with the officials of the Ministry of Finance that the word 'home' had not been defined. The cottage with the garage is a home, the apartment is a home, but the apartment with the garage is no longer a home. Have you given a definition of "road traffic"?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U132	Thank you for your question. Firstly, I cannot comment on what is happening to you in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the same question was raised, and the answer was such that there is no definition. That word has been used in the law of tea. So this concept already exists, the new concept has not been introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U133	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U134	I was getting interested. In general, it has been established by the tests and in practice that neither the trailer moves faster than the towing vehicle. That's not possible. If you're gonna make a register, there's gonna be some numbers on it, and no one's gonna take them from heaven. Where else do they come from than the factory? Our amendment, too, was based on the fact that the maximum permitted speed of the factory is what is allowed. So where does this register start to take these numbers when this register is created?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U135	At the moment, however, it is not possible to state the authorised towing speed according to the paper of some factory.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U136	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U137	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I'd like to continue on road traffic and road transport. I'll ask you this. If you replace the word 'road transport' with 'road traffic' with this legislative amendment, I understand that, as well as in the spirit of the directive, all this regulation extends to roads outside the countryside as well as to roads of local importance. Does it include private roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U138	Thank you for a good question. I think it does, because it is not stated whether regulation applies to the way of a local government, to the way of a state or to a road in private ownership, but whether it applies to road traffic in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U139	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would like to proceed on the subject raised by Eiki Nestor. As an engineer, I have a little ear-scrambled by the expression'making paper'. It is officially possible to ask the manufacturer for a position and he gives an official document how quickly the trailer can move. I don't think there's a problem here. I do not understand how the Committee on Economic Affairs does not understand this! The manufacturer's factory produces a very formal document. Why can't it be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U141	I do see a little problem here, though. If a policeman is holding up a vehicle that's towing something, where does he ask for this document? He doesn't have anywhere to ask right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U142	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kalev Lillo. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment is made by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee proposes that it be fully taken into account. The second amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the commission proposes not to take it into account. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U143	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U144	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The amendments have been examined. Second reading of bill 182 is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U145	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating thereto. I would like to present the Chair of the Economic Commission, Mr Arto Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U146	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the amendments to the draft electricity market law and of the process that has taken place in the meantime. The Economic Commission received four amendments from the Social Democratic Party Group on 21 February following the first reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and related amendments to other laws in Riigikogu plenary. Several amendments were formulated by the Committee on Economic Affairs on the basis of proposals forwarded to the Commission by the various parties for consideration. The Commission was approached with its proposals and positions by Eesti Energia AS, the Estonian Electric Industry Association, the Estonian Renewable Energy Koda, the Estonian Wind Energy Association, Nordic Power Management OÜ, the Estonian Gaasiit, AS Kuressaare Ter heat, AS Elering and the Estonian Furniture Industry Association. In addition, the Commission received proposals from the representative of the initiator. In total, there were almost 90 proposals. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for the meeting of the Commission at its meetings on 15, 20 and 22 March, when all the proposals received were examined in detail and the views of the initiator were heard. On 3 April, the Working Group of the Economic Commission addressed three specific major areas: direct line regulation, general service regulation and renewable energy support issues. There were a number of market participants and experts involved in this discussion. OÜ, VKG Elektrivõrgud OÜ, Nordic Power Management OÜ, Eesti Taastuvenergia Koda, Eesti Tuuleenergia Association, Graanul Energia OÜ, Competition Board as well as AS Elering were represented. As a result of the discussion in the working groups, 38 amendments were formulated together with the initiator. On 5 April, all the proposals received by the commission on the draft, accompanied by the views of the initiator, were presented to the members of the Economic Commission. The initiator of the draft act was Ando Leppiman, acting Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. There was also a thorough and long debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs. a on 12 April, when the amendments drawn up by the working group were examined and the views of the initiator of the draft were examined. Mr Ando Leppiman, the initiator of the draft, and Mr Viive Šavel, the Chief Specialist of the Energy Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, took part in the meeting of the Commission. In total, 37 amendments were sent from the Committee on Economic Affairs to the Assembly, which are included in the material available to you. Since there are a lot of technical and legal issues, even precision, and many of the proposals are alternative, the Committee on Economic Affairs has a desire to continue to deal with this draft and not to stop reading the second one today. The procedural decisions of the Economic Commission are as follows: to send the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws to the Riigikogu for a second reading on 18 April. a, propose that the plenary assembly suspend the second reading of the draft and set five working days, i.e. the deadline for the submission of amendments. April 25th at 6 p.m. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U147	Thank you, Arto Aas! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U148	Madam President! If you don't mind, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U149	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U150	Ladies and gentlemen, Since it is a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and related to the amendment of other laws, I considered it appropriate to speak today on the subject of what will take place in the electricity market next year. There has been quite a lot of talk about the issues of the electricity market, and many members of the Riigikogu have been asked what the open electricity market means to the consumer. We know that large companies have gone to the open electricity market. They have gained their experience, with a pretty expensive experience of a 40% price increase. Did they get any better? Maybe he did. I have been asked by journalists what it still means to say that we are going to the open market and that the open market is a nice thing. They are interested in what the open electricity market will bring to the consumer. But why am I talking about this market in the debate on this bill? In fact, the idea of this law is that a normal consumer loses in the event of an open market. He's gonna lose in the sense that the price's gonna go up. He must be responsible for who he chooses if he has the choice of an electricity seller. He has to make a deal with the seller and communicate with him. It must also contract and communicate with the network company. In fact, the consumer will pay more if he enters the open electricity market and will have more to do with it. This law, which the Committee on Economic Affairs has done very diligently with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, seeks to alleviate this pain and effort. In fact, there are also winners in this open electricity market. The winner is primarily Eesti Energia, the Estonian state also wins. It can be said that if Eesti Energia wins, Estonian consumers will also indirectly win. I am not saying the exact number, I have not calculated it, and I do not know how to do it, but Estonian Energia will win tens of millions next year because of the open market. The Estonian state will win in such a way that 200 million euros of dividends from Eesti Energia have been written into the budget strategy for next year. Domestic consumer wins in the sense that the Estonian state budget is getting bigger. The consumer is therefore happy to pay more for electricity. This is what can be written as a victory for a common consumer. But in fact, the Estonian state budget will not be larger, dividends will not be paid, because this 200 million euros will be put in reverse share capital of Eesti Energia. That's the kitchen side of the thing. What can we do in this hall? I dare not say that it is difficult for ordinary consumers to enter the open market, but it is painful. What can we do in this hall to make sure it doesn't hurt so much? For example, the Ministry has tried to correct this renewable energy thing in order to pull it back a little bit. I'm the one on the remote, and they've been talking about excise duty. It's a matter of cents, but we can show good will. If we both visually improve the state budget, let the state-owned company earn by going to the open market, then we could take some practical steps, apart from organisational steps, to meet the common consumer a little bit. We're all ordinary consumers. I like that the Committee on Economic Affairs stopped reading this draft. A lot of work has been done on this, it's getting better, but there's still work to be done here. Whoever can and wants to get involved, be good! I wanted to open up the idea of what this open market is, who will benefit and who will be harmed. It will indirectly benefit all of us because our state-owned company will be richer and the state budget will become more visually beautiful. The consumer pays for it, because on the market we buy the same Narva electricity. At present, however, Narva Station receives 2.9 euro cents for electricity, and then it will receive a market price of 5 euro cents for it. There's gonna be a few more cents on every kilowatt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U151	Thank you. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. We are going to examine the amendments. There's 37. The first amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has rejected the proposal. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U152	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U153	We shall proceed to the vote on this amendment. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 1 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has proposed not to take the proposal into account. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu, 45 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The following amendments are proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been proposed by the Steering Committee to take full account of them: proposals 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. Amendment 14 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the commission proposes that this proposal be taken into account in substance. Amendment 15 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission proposes not to take the proposal into account. Proposal No 16 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken the proposal fully into account. The same applies to Amendment 17. Amendment 18 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is to disregard the amendment. Amendment 19 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken the proposal fully into account. The 20th amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, as well as amendments 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37. The amendments have been examined. The commission has proposed to interrupt the second reading of draft 139. Second reading aborted. I will set the deadline for tabling 139 amendments. April 25th at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U154	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to the next item. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Tõniste, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, would like to present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 12 April, with the participation of Marika Taal, Head Specialist of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of the Ministry of Finance. No amendments were received by the deadline for submitting amendments. These amendments, which are here before you, are the result of good cooperation between the editor of the language, the adviser of the Economic Commission and the specialists of the Ministry of Finance. So, what did we say here? We have specified the activities to be covered by the preparation of the annual report and the activities to be covered by the annual report. We also introduced into the implementing provisions of the Accounting Act in force on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice one of the provisions contained in subsection 3 (2) of the draft Act with effect from 1 January 2012. As a result, the paragraph of the entry into force had to be removed from the draft, which resulted in the entry into force of the Act in general terms, i.e. 10 days after the publication in the Official Journal of the State. It was decided to send draft Act 147 on amendments to the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading on 18 April 2012 (consensus), to propose to the Assembly to stop the second reading (also by consensus) and, when the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading of the draft 147 on 2 May and to adopt the draft as a law (also by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U156	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Four amendments to draft 147 have been received, all from the lead committee and have been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. Thank you very much for your cooperation. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U157	Let us move to the next item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Competition initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The development of the draft law amending the Competition Act was due to the need to bring the existing law into line with the EU competition law regulation and to resolve the problems encountered in practice in the implementation of the law in relation to State aid issues. The amendments proposed in the draft are largely technical, but there are also more substantive changes. The main changes are as follows: First, the law requires that State aid must have an incentive effect. The requirement arises from the State aid legislation of the European Commission. The aid is considered to be an incentive if the applicants have submitted a request to the grantor prior to the start of the project. An applicant who is a large enterprise (a company with 250 or more employees) must also demonstrate that he or she carries out the project together with the aid, for example, faster or more than without the aid. Secondly, it provides that the grantor of State aid must not start to grant aid until the European Commission has taken a decision on the legal certainty notice submitted to it. A notification of legal certainty may be submitted by a Member State in respect of an aid measure which it does not consider to be State aid, but for which the Commission wishes legal certainty that it does not indeed constitute State aid. Thirdly, it provides for the possibility for the State aid grantor to withdraw the notification of State aid to the European Commission. Since the European Union rules allow for the withdrawal of the notification, this possibility has been used several times in practice. The draft provides for a national procedure for the withdrawal of the State aid notification. Fourthly, the draft reduces the time limits for the review by the Ministry of Finance of the State aid and block exemption notifications drawn up by the donors, which will later be forwarded to the European Commission. Time limits are reduced from 20 working days to 10 working days. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U159	Minister, thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Toomas Tõniste, Member of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 9 April. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, Deputy Chancellor of Administrative Policy of the Ministry of Finance Agris Peedu, a lawyer of the Public Procurement and State Aid Department, Helen Valge and leading specialist Maris Kalda. It was about what was said here before that some technical changes were being made. But I will address the questions of the Members of the Commission. It was asked to clarify the difference between public support, state aid and de minimis aid. It was clarified that the subsidy from the state budget could also constitute State aid. State aid is State aid or tax relief with four characteristics. It must come from State resources, be targeted at undertakings, be selective and, even potentially, distort competition on the European Union market. As regards de minimis aid, the European Commission has issued a regulation stating that the amount of EUR 200000 over a period of three years for one undertaking is de minimis aid from any source and that it is not necessary to submit a State aid notification to the European Commission. Perhaps the biggest difference is that State aid is monitored by the European Commission, but that de minimis aid is controlled domestically. State aid is not only dealt with by the Ministry of Finance, but, to a very large extent, also falls within the remit of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or the Ministry of Agriculture. It has also been clarified that State aid exceeds EUR 40 million. The Commission decided to send the draft to the Plenary Assembly on 18 April, proposed that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 12 noon on 3 April. These decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U161	Good waitress, could it be that you were wrong in a month?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U162	Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U163	Not April, May.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U164	I'm sorry! May 3rd.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U165	Thank you, waitress! Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 195 amendments at 12 noon on 3 May. The first reading and the item on the agenda are closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U166	Let us move to the next item, which is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the amendments to Articles 1 and 18 of the Treaty establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It extends the mandate of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the countries of the Southern and Eastern Mediterranean and allows the use of special funds in beneficiary countries and potential beneficiary countries. As the Riigikogu ratifies foreign treaties, amendments to these provisions of the Treaty also need to be ratified by the Riigikogu. The Treaty changes are linked to the events of the Arab Spring in 2011, when events were taking place in both North Africa and the Middle East with a view to achieving democracy. Many international organisations have already been active in the region, wishing to contribute to the development of democracy and the region. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is doing the same. The purpose of the draft is to approve the amendments to Articles 1 and 18 of the Treaty. Article 1 extends the business of the Bank: in addition to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and Mongolia, the Bank may also operate in the Member States of the Southern and Eastern Mediterranean. The agreement of all Member States is needed here. Article 18 allows for the creation of a special fund which the Bank can also use to fulfil its objective in countries that may need assistance. Since the entry into force of Article 18, projects in the Southern and Eastern Mediterranean can be supported earlier by this fund, i.e. before the entry into force of Article 1. By ratifying the amendment of the bank's treaty, Estonia fulfils its international obligation as a member of the international organisation and contributes to the objectives of the bank. Amendments to the Bank's Treaty do not involve expenditure on Estonia from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U168	Minister, thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated its s. a by decision of 2 April, the draft law ratifying the amendments to Articles 1 and 18 of the Treaty establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, numbered 201. These changes were discussed in the Committee on Finance. a on 9 April 2004. In the Commission, Martin Põder, Head of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft. In addition, Triin Ruus, who is also the author of this draft and explanatory memorandum, was present at the committee as an adviser to the same department. The Minister just gave you an overview of the purpose of the draft. I'll go over a few more things. The purpose of the draft is to approve amendments to the articles of the Bank's Treaty. This will allow, firstly, the extension of the Bank's mandate in the Mediterranean countries (Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Libya, Tunisia) and, secondly, the use of special funds for the purposes of the EBRD in beneficiary countries and potential beneficiary countries. Specifically, the changes make it possible to implement EBRD investment projects in the Southern and Eastern Mediterranean. In short, I will talk about the debate in the Commission. There was no very long debate. Interested in how and when the changes will take effect. The rapporteur in the Commission gave an overview of this. Amendments to the Treaty shall enter into force seven days after the official notification by the Bank of confirmation by all Contracting Parties. Upon entry into force of the amendments, the EBRD may fulfil its objectives, i.e. promote the transition to a free market-oriented economy, also supporting the initiative of private business in the southern and eastern Mediterranean Member States, provided that at least two thirds of the members of the Bank's Board of Governors, representing at least three quarters of the members with the right to vote, vote in favour of the Bank's decision. There was also interest in how long the changes might take. There was no specific answer. An example was provided that the entry into force of an earlier amendment took several years and that the EBRD's relations with some of the parties to the agreement may not be the best, or may have been interrupted. One of the delegates asked for clarification on the draft explanatory memorandum. He asked why the explanatory memorandum contained a paragraph on the link between the Treaty amendments and the events of the so-called Arab Spring. He asked for an amendment to the explanatory memorandum that the Kingdom of Jordan had not been directly involved in the Arab Spring. The Commission took the following decisions: The first decision was to send the draft before the assembly on 18 April; the decision was taken by consensus. The second proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft, which was decided by consensus in the same way. The third proposal was to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 p.m. on 25 April, which was also a consensus decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U170	Dear waitress, thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 201 amendments on 25 April at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and this item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U171	We will move to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. I am pleased to ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U172	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I present the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion. The tax agreement with India is based on the Standard Agreement of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which has been adapted during the negotiations, as has been the case for agreements with other countries. The Agreement regulates the sharing of tax rights between the Contracting Parties, provides for an obligation to prevent discriminatory taxation and to prevent tax evasion. I am now talking about the main differences between the OECD model and the Estonian-India agreement. First of all, the Estonian-India agreement treats construction-related activities and supervision as a permanent establishment only if such activities last for more than nine months. This deadline is 12 months in the OECD Standard Agreement. In addition, a permanent establishment shall be established in the course of the provision of services if it lasts for at least six months. The tax on dividends paid to residents of another country shall not exceed 10% of the gross dividend. The OECD model has a rate of 5% for a 25% shareholding and 15% for other cases. The tax on licence fees shall be limited to 10% of the tax withheld in the source country. In addition to the profits generated by international sea and air transport, the company is taxed on the income from the use of containers used in the transport of goods in the country of residence. The pension paid for the civil service is taxed in the country where the pension is paid. Income from teaching by lecturers, teachers and researchers in another country shall not be taxed during the first two years. According to the Protocol to the Agreement, Estonia has to notify India if a special provision on permanent establishment in the activities of an insurance agent is included in future tax agreements. This provision will then also apply to the India Agreement. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U173	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Urve Tiidus, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. The Finance Committee discussed draft Act No 207 of 9 April on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as the initiator's representative. The aim of the draft is to create favourable conditions for transnational investment and the free movement of people, goods and services. In order to achieve this objective, the contract limits the income tax that the source country may impose on residents of another country. It also helps to avoid double taxation by laying down rules on equal treatment for persons. The agreement will also create additional opportunities to prevent tax fraud. Following ratification by the Riigikogu, cooperation between the tax authorities of the Contracting States will be facilitated. Such agreements have so far been ratified by the Riigikogu 52. The following questions were raised by the Commission: How many persons can the Treaty be ratified? The answer was that so far few, more precise information was not provided. However, I take the liberty to add that economic and scientific cooperation between Estonia and India shows a growing trend. For example, exports to India have almost doubled over the last six years, accounting for 0.3% of all Estonian exports. In 2011, 80 Estonian local companies exported to India. In view of the forecast that India promises to be the fifth market in purchasing power in the world by 2025, it can be expected that the agreement to be ratified by the Riigikogu will have greater practical meaning in the coming years. The question was asked about the time of the benefits to students in the case of disbursements. The representative of the Ministry explained that the benefits apply to students for a reasonable period of time or for a normal period of study or internship, but in no case can a natural person benefit from the benefits for more than five consecutive years from their first arrival in another country. The answer is also found in Article 21. I'll mention some of the benefits of the contract. The benefit for students is, for example, that a Contracting State does not tax a student scholarship or loans resident in another country that is studying or practicing in its territory. Neither shall payments for the maintenance and studies of students in studies or traineeships, whose source is outside the country of the place of study and traineeship, be taxed. The Commission was also asked about the taxation of athletes. This issue is dealt with in Article 17 of the Agreement, entitled "Revenue of the Pre-Chair and the Athletic.' In summary, the Commission stated that the income received by a resident of a Contracting Party acting as an athlete in another Contracting Party may be taxed by another State. If the return goes to his manager instead of an athlete, he will also be taxed on the same principle as if the return had become an athlete. The Commission decided unanimously to take the draft at first reading on Wednesday 18 April, i.e. today, to close the first reading and set the deadline of 25 April at 18. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 207 amendments on 25 April at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and this item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U176	Let us move to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of the Interior Minister Ken-Marti Vaheri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft Act amending the Emergency Act, according to which companies providing vital services, including banks and communication companies, must ensure that the services are functioning even if their information systems are located abroad and electronic communications with foreign countries are interrupted. As a second amendment, the draft increases the sanction for non-compliance with vital service security requirements. At present, a fine of up to EUR 6400 is a penalty for an act concerning a legal person. According to the draft, the maximum fine will increase to EUR 20000. With this legislative amendment, the state wishes to rule out a situation where making payments within Estonia, access to cash or the functioning of the telephone network and mobile communications depends solely on connections with foreign countries. For example, if the central information systems of some larger banks were to be interrupted in Estonia and card payments, Internet bank and ATMs were not to work, this would affect not only the use of banking services but also the welfare and security of people in general. According to Eesti Pank statistics, card payments at points of sale amounted to 62% of domestic payments in 2011. In the case of private individuals, this percentage was even higher than 73%. In addition, the total number of card payments has increased by 17% over the last year. On average 522000 card payments per day. This statistics illustrates the direct dependence of daily consumption and economic activity of our companies and individuals on banks' information systems. The proposed draft ensures that vital services, such as the availability of cash, making payments and the functioning of the telephone network and mobile communications, are available to Estonian residents in all circumstances. What dangers do we want to avoid? First of all, failures in information systems abroad and disruption of electronic communications are important security threats that need to be taken into account in ensuring the continuous functioning of vital services. For example, cyberattacks and breakage of cables can cause blackouts. We very much appreciate the potential for such security risks to materialise. This is also the main reason for the draft. The loss of electronic communications is not only a theoretically assessed threat, but there have been several incidents in the recent past when electronic communications have been significantly disrupted or interrupted for various reasons. For example, as a countermeasure to the cyber attack in May 2007, access to the Estonian network of certain foreign technical resources was restricted, as well as access to the services under attack was restricted. Connection to restricted servers was interrupted for ordinary users and therefore some services did not work. The current law provides that the continuity of vital services must always be ensured, while the locations of data servers for the information systems necessary for the provision of the services are not regulated. In this context, a situation may arise where, in carrying out its risk assessment, the service provider assesses that the risk of disruption of the service due to a disruption of the external connection is very low and fails to carry out the activities necessary to mitigate such risk. The draft confirms, for its part, that the risk of disruption of external connections is high and that all providers of vital services must provide for activities to mitigate such risk. The additional obligations for the critical service provider are briefly described as follows: There are about 170 providers of vital services in Estonia, along with public authorities. Most of these information systems are located in Estonia. The larger credit institutions have also clearly confirmed that they do not intend to move the information systems out of Estonia, so they do not need to restructure because of this draft. Both now and in the future, providers of vital services can choose whether their information systems are located in Estonia or abroad. However, institutions whose critical information systems are located abroad must ensure that vital services can also be provided in the event of failure or disruption of the information system. It remains up to the service provider to decide by which technical solutions it complies with the requirement laid down in the law. Companies providing vital services can choose whether to keep their information systems in their entirety in Estonia or to set up backup systems to enable services to be provided at least in a minimum capacity. If the information system that ensures the functioning of the services on a daily basis is located outside Estonia, it is necessary to ensure the functioning of vital services in Estonia even if information systems located abroad do not function or if electronic communication with foreign countries is interrupted. The measure provided for in the draft is suitable for achieving the objective of the draft law, but the solution leaves the choice to the vital service provider, who can implement the most appropriate technical solution for the purpose. In our opinion, the interests and rights protected by the law are not affected more than justified by the legitimate purpose of the regulation. The interruption in the provision of vital services threatens the lives and health of people, paralyzes the functioning of the state, reduces the security of society. Therefore, and in the light of the public interest, the interests of national security and the need to ensure the functioning of vital services in the event of significant threats, we consider that the additional costs and restrictions on fundamental freedoms, including the freedom to conduct a business, which may be imposed by this provision, are proportionate to the risk to be mitigated by the provision. From the outset, representatives of credit institutions and communications companies as well as of various interest groups have been involved in the drafting of this draft. We value cooperation well and have taken into account a number of proposals. The draft is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U178	Minister, thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Peeter Laurson, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, will present this speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed draft law amending the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic in 204 s. a on 9 April 2004 at the Commission's regular meeting. The purpose of the draft is to ensure the continuity of vital services in a situation where information systems providing services abroad are not functioning and/or the electronic communications service with foreign countries has been interrupted. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, Hannes Unt, Adviser to the Rescue and Crisis Management Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Priit Perens, Chairman of the Management Board of the Estonian Banking Association, Katrin Talihärm, Managing Director of the Estonian Banking Association, Kadi Kapral, Head of the Legal Department of Eesti Pank, Jüri Jõema, Managing Director of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, and Tiit Tammiste from EMT. The Minister of the Interior introduced the draft law 204 in depth. In particular, at the beginning of the debate, the guests expressed their views on the matter. Priit Perens, Chairman of the Board of the Banking Association, pointed out that changes were undoubtedly necessary. The Banking Association's proposal is to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act in order to allow members of the Banking Association to introduce changes. Kadi Kapral, Head of the Legal Department of Eesti Pank, supported the proposal of the Banking Association. Jüri Jõema, CEO of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, was of the opinion that the communication companies supported the draft. It also pointed out that other legislation should specify more precisely the technical criteria on the basis of which the criteria for the provision of the service should be established. Tiit Tammiste of the EMT added that additional time would also be needed to ensure that services were described at all levels and in all areas and established by mandate standards. Members of the Commission asked how this situation is regulated in other EU Member States. In response it was found that most Nordic countries have not regulated where the information systems are located, but regulated and secured where the data is located. While Estonia's small size provided an opportunity to close state borders electronically during the 2007 cyber attacks, there is no such possibility in the larger countries. To the question of whether there are problems in the implementation of the law and in the current regulation, not in the draft, we have received the answer that it is not a question of technical solutions, rather to the extent and to the content of writing more concretely. Many of the questions raised by the members of the Commission were about the deadline for implementation. The Minister replied that a compromise could be reached on the time limit for the entry into force of the law if the service providers were to discuss what the real deadline would be. A reasonable extension of the deadline is certainly possible. The Vice-President of the Commission, Deniss Borodich, proposed that the draft be sent to first reading. a 18 April, appoint Peeter Laurson as rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to conclude the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 10 working days, 3 May 2012 at 6 p.m. The Commission supported these proposals by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U180	Dear waitress, thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 204 amendments at 6 p.m. on 3 May. The first reading is closed and this item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U181	Let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws. I ask the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! At the beginning of the debate on the drafts of the Ministry of Justice, it is always said that this is a very good draft. That's the way it is now. As usual, I will start this time, as an introduction to the objectives of the draft. If you try to sum up the objectives of the draft with a few sentences, you could say that the aim of the draft is to reduce state fees and thus make it easier for people to access justice and make justice more accessible. The draft also introduces changes to legal proceedings in order to reduce the length of judicial proceedings and thus make the procedure more efficient. For people, legal proceedings are speeding up as the procedure for service of judicial documents is changed. In particular, the slowness of service of procedural documents is one of the main reasons for delaying cases. Currently, it is estimated that between one third and half of the civil cases pending before the courts of first instance are pending at the stage of service. That is why we want to create additional possibilities for courts to send documents electronically. According to the draft law, the court would also be able to send the notification document to the telephone number or e-mail address found on the Internet, as well as to the social network user account page. In the future, it should certainly facilitate the lives of law-abiding people who receive their notifications faster and more conveniently if they do not live on their postal addresses. At the same time, it should make life bitter for those who deliberately stay away from the court but are active and available elsewhere. I also mention this because there has been a longer debate on this issue in the public. It is our wish, however, that it is not up to us to decide, because decisions on laws are made by the legislator, not by the executive power, so that the state fees will fall from 1 July 2012, that is to say, the middle of this year. I hope that we have prepared the draft so high quality that the legislator considers it possible. But now a little bit more about the bill. First of all, I will talk about state fees. During the preparation of the draft act, all fees were reviewed and as a result the state fees would decrease significantly. The level of state fees will also be adjusted in roundings, with a view to simplification, making the rates of state fees easier to control, both for those who turn to the courts and for court officials. I believe that it is not wise to start reading all the state fees from the Riigikogu's remote control, but I will still give you some examples that might be of interest to the public and give an indication of how the state fees decrease. For example, if a person currently wishes to claim his or her EUR 1500 debt through the courts in general proceedings, he or she will have to pay a state fee of EUR 319 and 55 cents, or EUR 320, rounded up, the bill states that, in the case of such a sum of EUR 150 and EUR 200, if the application is filed on paper, the application should be submitted electronically. If the nature of the claim makes it possible to submit the order for payment in an urgent procedure, the state fee will be EUR 45 in the future. Another example. In the dispute over the EUR 100000 ownership of apartments, the state fee is currently EUR 6391. According to the draft, it will be EUR 1000 in electronic form and EUR 1200 in paper form. In divorce matters, the state fee is reduced from €319 to €100 from 55 cents, by submitting a public e-file to €75 via the information system. On the basis of a labour law claim by an employee when filing for bankruptcy against an employer, the state fee will be EUR 10 at the general rate instead of EUR 383 46 cents and EUR 5 at the time of submitting the application via the public e-file information system. When submitting the creditor's application for bankruptcy, the state fee must be paid at a general rate of EUR 300, while the public e-file information system provides EUR 250. The current law provides for an obligation to pay the state fee of EUR 383 55 cents when the creditor filed for bankruptcy. As you have already understood, the public e-file plays an important role in the draft. The draft establishes more favourable rates of state fees in civil matters for those who submit documents to the court via a public e-file. The amendment will motivate the parties to the proceedings to make greater use of electronic channels when they go to court, thereby reducing the burden on the courts due to reduced technical work. It also creates prerequisites for the automation of a number of work processes and the transition to a digital file and paperless procedure within the system. In order to prevent preferential state fees from becoming incompatible with the principle of equality enshrined in the Constitution, persons who, for objective reasons, are unable to use the public e-file, for example because of their respectable age or when a person does not have the skills or the ability to use a computer, will also be allowed to perform the procedure at preferential rates. As far as state fees are concerned, the draft also makes some changes to the calculation of the cost of the action. If the action price is currently determined on the basis of the basic requirement, the draft provides for it to be carried out on the basis of the basic requirement and the secondary requirements, since the differentiation of claims according to the origin of the claim is not justified in the light of the state fee. The court's time costs are often higher and the dispute to explain the justification of secondary claims is often more complex and resource-intensive than the dispute over the basic requirements. I will not stop at any more state fees because, as I have already said, there is no point in comparing all the new and old state fees from this remote control. With interest, the explanatory memorandum allows you to look them up and discuss them in the work process. I will now mention this draft for the second main purpose of speeding up judicial proceedings. What are we going to do about it? Firstly, we want to make delivery more efficient. To that end, the Code shall be specified by the obligation of the party to proceedings to inform the court of the temporary change in address and means of communication data during the course of legal proceedings. In such a case, the court shall be able to take this into account when planning the proceedings and delivering the documents. This reduces the length of proceedings and ensures that the parties to proceedings are informed in due time. For courts and parties to proceedings, electronic delivery in line with information technology opportunities will be more regulated and better regulatory assumptions will be created in order to implement the information system for delivery as effectively as possible. The service of legal persons will be simplified. The reason is that they can be expected and required more responsibility and diligence when receiving documents compared to natural persons. According to the draft law, in the action procedure and in the urgent procedure of the order for payment, the procedural document is served through the bailiff on the organisation of the party to the proceedings, i.e. the court no longer mediates the communication between the parties to the proceedings and the bailiff and the payment of the fee to the bailiff. Secondly, we are trying to amend the existing law in such a way as to make it more difficult to delay or prevent the procedure. According to the draft, the procedure for involving a third party is amended so that the third party may be requested until the expiry of the prior or written procedure. Upon completion of the preliminary proceedings, an application may be made for third party involvement in the proceedings only with the consent of the other parties to the proceedings or of the court. This will allow the court to better manage the proceedings, as it is currently possible to delay the proceedings maliciously. The defendant shall be allowed to lodge a counterclaim until the preliminary or written procedure has expired. According to the current regulation, a counterclaim may still be brought in the final phase of the procedure, which is why it is the most difficult point in the Code for delaying proceedings. A decision by default can be taken with the applicant's consent, which is presumed to exist. According to the current regulation, a decision can be taken by default at the applicant's request, but in many cases this delays the procedure and causes bureaucracy. Thirdly, we are trying to cut red tape in court. For example, the obligation to submit documents electronically is extended not only to lawyers but also to other parties, generally economic, professional or legal persons, who provide legal services on the basis of an employment relationship. The Circuit Court will be given the opportunity to make a descriptive and reasoned order if the order is not satisfied and the order of the Circuit Court cannot be appealed to the Supreme Court. The Court imposes an obligation to formalise a digital solution (to date this was an option) in order to make it easier to switch to a digital court file. In a situation where the court sends a request for the determination of the costs of proceedings to the opposite party for inspection and publication of the position and the opposite party does not dispute, the burden on the court is that it begins to assess the justification of the costs of the contractual agent as required by the law in force. According to the draft law, in such a case, the court can only check that the procedural costs do not exceed the threshold established by the Government of the Republic. The draft provides for the possibility to count the costs of the urgent procedure for payment as procedural costs and to claim their reimbursement. In view of the formalisation of the procedure, the estimated costs of the proceedings shall be reimbursed at a fixed rate of EUR 20. The fourth amendment, which I consider to be the last major and important change, is that we want to improve the speedy procedure for the payment order. We want to create additional grounds for the automatic transition of the urgent payment order procedure in order to reduce red tape for the courts and parties to proceedings in situations where such a transfer is reasonable. The order for payment procedure will be transferred to the action procedure, for example, if the proposal for the order for payment could not be served on the debtor, and if a compromise to be confirmed by the court is sought. The most important changes have, in my opinion, been given an overview, and I will make a point in my report. Finally, as the initiator of the draft, the Government of the Republic, I support the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee's proposal to conclude the first reading of the draft today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U183	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U184	Minister, thank you very much. You said that there would be opportunities for social networks for speeding up the delivery of procedural documents. In a social network such as Facebook, no one can identify themselves with a document, and in theory they can also appear under someone else's name. Please explain how this use of social networks is practically taking place in service of procedural documents.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U185	Thank you. I'm trying to explain this very briefly, perhaps without going into all the details. It is not a completely new method, but it will be used more. To this end, electronic development is also being carried out, which has not been so far available. Even now, courts can view data from the social network. Specify how it will work and find the necessary solutions. If, for example, Urve Tiidus or any other person is requested to deliver documents, it must be informed that he has received a message from the court, and only the right person can read this message by signing in with an ID card. It's not like your Facebook page says there's been an action or something like that, please start paying alimony, or something else. I may have added some color, but the point is that only the right person can open these documents. It's guaranteed. The point is that the person will receive the message immediately, no matter where he is. It's convenient for a law-abiding person.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U186	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I agree with you that this is a very good law. I know you don't like picking, but I'm still picking a little bit. Your predecessor (if I'm not mistaken, he was from the same party as you) raised those fees, but now you, who are his party partner, are lowering them. I'm worried that your party's worldview hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U188	Thank you. I'm glad you're at least consistent. You ask that a lot. No, it's not a question of worldview. I think that the analysis, the practice and the development of knowledge are what has led to both the Ministry of Justice and the government knowing what is better and perhaps a better and fairer way for people to have access to justice. As I said, one part of it is the lowering of state fees. There are also parts that aim to speed up judicial proceedings. One part on speeding up court proceedings, in accordance with the principles of good lawmaking, we excluded it from this draft in order to discuss it with the judiciary, because the judiciary wanted to improve it further. I think it's a bit bigger than that. It only looks like the tip of the iceberg over the water. I don't think there's any ideological ambiguity here. Protecting people's rights was certainly also important to my predecessor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U189	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U190	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I also agree with you, and with my colleague, Mr Anvelt, that this is a very good bill. But I have a question for the sake of the verbatim. You have read very well all the fees that are decreasing, and that is certainly also stated in the explanatory memorandum. But is there a rise in fees because of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U191	Thank you. You're right, something's rising. I don't have it here at hand, but one fee is rounded up by three euros. As a systemic change, I noted that the business model of instant credit offices is becoming more expensive. In the past, it was possible that the secondary claims might have ticked until the main claim had been brought before the Court on the basis of a certain cost of the action. In the future, it will become more expensive for instant credit offices. If the legislator does not consider this acceptable, it is possible to discuss all of this. But this is what we propose today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U192	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U193	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I want to acknowledge both you and the Government of the Republic. At last, you came up with a bill that significantly lowers the rates of state fees. It is known to everyone that the Supreme Court in its many decisions as well as the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has expressed the view that they are contrary to the Constitution. The question is whether you can boldly claim, and if so, what is the basis for this statement that your rates are not in conflict with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U194	Thank you. I think I dare make such a statement. This statement is based on this same draft and on the preliminary work of the same draft. We've been preparing this bill for quite a while. Analysis has been carried out and the practice of other countries has been compared, which you will see in the explanatory memorandum. This can probably be considered in greater detail in the Commission. In the same way, we have discussed it with the judiciary and experts. I'm not saying all of them, but at least a lot of them. I dare say that all the proposals are compatible with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U195	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U196	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I very much welcome this draft. But does your colleague the Minister for Finance also welcome this draft and how much does it reduce the revenue of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U197	Thank you. I'm sure Jürgen Ligi will be very pleased with this bill. The state budget is planned (it has been calculated that the number of cases will increase as state fees decrease and people's legal awareness increases), that the total amount of state fees collected from legal proceedings will decrease by approximately 26% during the year. We have planned to reduce the state fees for legal proceedings by around EUR 3 million a year. If the law is passed half a year, then this figure simply needs to be reduced. The reduction in fees is planned for this year's budget. The revenue of the state budget is indeed less, but the aim is not to discuss directly the revenue of the state, but to ensure that people have sufficient access to justice. This is what we are contributing to by lowering the state fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U198	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, it is not very surprising that both one and the other fellow Member sitting on the right side of my view is concerned about why state fees are still falling or, on the contrary, whether there is some kind of state fee that is rising. At the same time, it is clear that lowering state fees is right and necessary. It's very much to be expected. The revenue from reduced state fees has been taken into account in the budget. However, has account been taken of the possible increase in court cases, i.e. additional work for the judicial system and the additional costs that may result from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U200	Thank you. We take into account that the trend in court cases is still upward, and this is also supported by a reduction in the level of fees. At least now, this trend seems to be growing as people's legal awareness and opportunities to defend their rights increase. That is why we are trying to speed up court proceedings. I think that one side here is definitely a court-martial party and the other side is the retention of qualified people in the judicial system. Let's be honest, the biggest pain in the world is to pay the court official. I have said this publicly on several occasions that, if the budget for next year allows, the Justice Department will have priority over the increase in the salary of the judicial officer. This should ensure that legally qualified people and people who do their job well do not leave because of a small salary. Well, the press has also reported that there are rather low wages. I think that is the first question. You mentioned earlier that they would ask what fees would rise. I checked that when the administrative court applied for provisional legal protection, the state fee would rise to EUR 15, currently EUR 12 and 78 cents. That kind of slope is really in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U201	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Marko Pomerantsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U202	Good afternoon. President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can imagine, the Committee on Legal Affairs has discussed this draft. This took place on April 9th. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; When you go through some of the keywords that sounded in our debate, the general classic question was whether it was not a cluster bill and whether it could be ugly and bad. But even the Chancellor of Justice has said that this is the kind of draft in which it is perfectly reasonable and justified to link up the various problems of nodule. His example concerned the question of the old judges, that if the judge was old but fine, could he continue to work? Helmen Hunter asked if anything else would come up. He was referring above all to the fees. One such place is actually, it concerns the urgent procedure for the order for payment and the deadline for the settlement of the application. If it's been seven days so far, the bill says it's turning into ten days. There is a very clear and simple justification for this: if applications can be submitted 24 hours a day at all times, but court officials can resolve them on five working days during working hours, then it is simply not possible to manage it so quickly every time. I think it's a reasonable change. The Minister of Justice has already gone through the most important chapters here. I'll bring another keyword that I don't think he mentioned in his report. This concerns the cost of translating a foreign language document or hearing as a state fee. Such State fees shall be abolished in the future. I suggest everyone read this bill and its explanatory statement. Indeed, different laws go into transformation, and different parts can affect different people to varying degrees. So it makes perfect sense to get a picture of this bill. If you find that there is a reason to propose amendments, we are waiting for them. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided, as you have already understood, to put this draft on the plenary agenda today, to close the first reading and to set the deadline of 3 May 2012 for the submission of amendments. All present were in favour of this decision. As has already been said here, some of this law could enter into force and should enter into force on 1 July 2012. This concerns state fees. In order for us to be able to implement the law, the Committee on Legal Affairs is ready to deal with this draft in such a way as to make it possible and we could jointly adopt it as a law at the end of May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U203	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline of 3 May at 16 a.m. for the submission of 206 draft amendments. The first reading is closed and this item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U204	Let us move to the next item, which is the first reading of the draft anti-corruption law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Once again, this is a very good bill; it must be turned down immediately. As the Ministry of Justice has become the norm and practice of developed countries such as England, Canada, the United States, Germany, as well as other countries, we have been preparing the draft, and we have based our analysis of the recommendations made by a number of international organisations such as the United Nations, the OECD, GRECO and the European Union in its guidelines and studies. To begin with, I will talk about the objectives of the draft. As such laws can be expected, this draft anti-corruption law aims to prevent corruption in a broader sense, but more specifically, to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens, to increase transparency, to clarify restrictions and obligations for officials, to make the system of declaration of interests more meaningful and effective, and to raise awareness of corruption in society. The entry into force of the bill will, according to the Ministry of Justice, help increase the responsibility of senior officials and politicians in society and reduce their risks of corruption. More broadly, corruption occurs in both the public and private sectors and could be summed up as an abuse of power or position in private interests against the public interest and the rights of others. Corruption does not always have to have a material outcome, which may mean gaining an advantage over access to education or treatment. Corruption, or violation of the duty of honesty, is deplorable and punishable in society. Surely it is worth noting that corruption is difficult to investigate. It is a complex form of hide-and-seek crime, which can take many people's working hours over the years to detect and unravel a case. We all understand that despite the negative effects of corruption, it often does not have a direct victim. The taxpayer's money or people's wider interest will not be complained, just as taxpayers' money will never lie behind this crime and will not come to complain to the public about any affair that it seems unethical. Estonia has, in many ways, chosen a European and Nordic path to prevent corruption. More generally, there are two basic or, if you like, paradigmatic choices. The first is a proactive, loss-preventing, public-based and honest society, the second is based on tough police control and strong measures, and requires a high level of internal security resources. Estonia, as I said, chose the first road, European and Nordic. After all, the philosophical idea of declaring the obligation is actually to give a signal: a good declarant, you are a decision-maker, make your decisions honestly and disclose your interests so that others too can be convinced that you are honest! Finally, it is always possible to check it in normal procedures whenever the public has reasonable doubts. Prevention is the most effective and cost-effective measure in the fight against corruption and crime in general as well as in the fight against health problems. The alternative is to do so simply by gleaning and to ask in each of these cases that it is interesting why this has happened. To conclude, I will give examples of prevention. It is worth looking at www.corruption.ee. For example, you will find a handbook on the prevention of conflicts of interest for officials. What if someone brings you expensive gifts and asks you to change your decision or something? This particular example is constantly being updated. If there are any questions, we'll write them down and look for answers. Then it's clear how to act when someone has a problem. The following is the main changes that this bill intends to introduce into Estonia's legal order. They can essentially be divided into three large blocks. Firstly, the concept and duties of an official are reworded. The concept of an official shall be reworded in the light of the authority's competence to make a decision or act affecting the rights or obligations of another person in the performance of a public task, regardless of the nature and legal form of the post, its remuneration, etc. The circle of persons associated with the official shall be specified, which shall exclude the right to act in the event of an indirect private interest. Associated persons shall be both close relatives, tribesmen and legal persons, in which the official holds at least one-tenth of the direct or indirect participation or of which he is a member. The person concerned shall also be the person whose status or activity has a material and immediate effect on the official. Where an official is a representative of an authority on the governing body of a legal person, the official and the legal person shall not be considered to be related persons. It is prohibited for an official to use corruptly the status, influence, inside information and public instrument, as well as to claim and take ownership of corrupt income. Corruptive is such abuse which leads to unequal treatment which is not justified in the public interest. It is also the duty of the official to respect operational and operational restrictions and to make a declaration of interest in accordance with the procedures laid down. Failure to comply with these prohibitions and obligations is, in some cases, punishable as a misdemeanour. It is the duty of the authorities to ensure that officials are aware of their responsibilities and that they exercise control over compliance with their duties. The National Audit Office drew attention to the need for such an obligation following an audit carried out in local governments. Officials are not allowed to hide a corruption case. The obligation of a public authority to report a corrupt act, together with the misdemeanour sanction that ensures it, will be removed as this regulation has not served its purpose. Instead, the reporter of a corruption case shall be given confidentiality, unless, of course, the notification is knowingly a false or defamatory notification. Secondly, the operational and operational constraints of the officials will be specified. As is clear from the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Justice, the current regulation of restrictions is not clear. This has caused a number of problems for public authorities. The main change with regard to operating restrictions is that the principle of the freedom to engage in activities outside the official's duties, i.e. ancillary activities, is taken into account. According to the draft law, an official is allowed to engage in general ancillary activities, including working as an undertaking or another employer, unless there are grounds for prohibiting it in a particular case: where the volume or nature of the ancillary activity is such as to impede the regular exercise of his duties, where ancillary activity may lead to a breach of his or her duties or where it obstructs the exercise of public authority's functions in general or adversely affects the reputation of the public authority. For example, there is generally no reason why an official should be prohibited from doing business through the legal person to which he belongs. This is a much more lenient intervention in the fundamental rights of a person and is in line with the general logic of restricting fundamental rights. The rule is the existence of a fundamental right and the state can limit it under certain conditions. The rule in the current law is the limitation of the fundamental right, and the state can, under certain conditions, not apply the restriction and restore the fundamental right of people. Promising increases transparency, but bans do not eliminate the risk of corruption and make it more difficult to detect corruption. It is also based on the principle that the more responsible an official in office works, the stricter the restrictions that apply to him. The restrictions on the performance of an official within the meaning of the Civil Service are provided for in § 9 of the draft, while the restrictions on the performance of other officials arise from special laws. The operating restrictions must be distinguished from the operating restrictions applicable to all officials. An operational restriction shall be a prohibition to take a decision or act where it affects the private interests of an official or of a person associated with him or her or contains any other known risk of corruption. In the case of an operational restriction, the official must inform his superior of the conflict, who shall decide how to proceed. It also provides for exceptions in which the operating restriction does not apply: in the case of the adoption of legislative acts and their participation in their preparation, in the event of an emergency and in the event of the inability to replace an official. Similarly, a council member is not obliged to withdraw from the discussion of the general act, although the general act concerns the direct or indirect interests of the council member. Thirdly, I would like to point out the effectiveness of the system of declaration of interests. According to the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Justice, the current system of declarations of economic interests is not effective and does not fulfil the objective of preventing corruption and giving an overview of the economic interests of officials. The results of the National Audit Office's audit and several international evaluations confirm the same. The main problems of the current system are the formality of the data, the number of performers and the administrative burden involved, and the inefficient supervision, as well as the complexity of the procedure for submitting a declaration of economic interests. According to the draft law or act adopted pursuant to the law, the required official must submit a declaration of interest in which, in addition to his or her assets, assets in permanent use, claims against other persons for more than two months, benefits received or granted as well as assets abroad, activities outside his or her duties, dividend income and other circumstances, including non-economic risks of corruption, are to be declared. Therefore, the data provided will become much more detailed and comprehensive. I attach importance to the principle that assets in real use are declared. After all, we all remember how it was said during the regime that Estonia was occupied that there was no match between the radio and the visible image. In the future, such an obligation should rule out a situation where the declarant does not have a dwelling or a vehicle, yet he lives in a nice house and has a decent car. Let it also be said here that there is no great sin when, for example, a member of the Riigikogu drives his mother's car, it simply needs to be clearly recorded. The situation would be more dubious if a member of the Riigikogu or government or mayor were to take a boat, plane or car of an entrepreneur interested in his decisions. The bill identifies some declarants. Depending on the duties of the official, the obligation to declare may be imposed on him by the head of the body or by the supervisory authority, taking into account the merits of the matter. The declaration must help to prevent corruption. A national register shall be established for the management of declarations. The declarant shall, on the basis of the cross-use of the data in the register, complete the data of the pre-filled declaration and submit it electronically to the register. The competence to check declarations is divided between the Riigikogu commission, the head of the institution or the supervisory maker and the public. The declarations of senior officials shall be public. That's where I'm gonna end up. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I certainly support the completion of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U206	Minister, there are questions for you. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U207	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The term 'impact corrupting' is included in the draft. I ask you to explain what is meant by this in greater detail and what the important difference is between bargaining power, which is a criminal offence, and the impact on the corrupt use that will be treated as a misdemeanour in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U208	I do not know exactly which point you are looking at, but at the beginning of the bill it has been said that an official is forbidden to use his office corruptly. There are other honesty obligations in different places. By the way, the fact that a person is not allowed to exercise his or her influence in an illegal manner is included in the trading of influence. So this composition isn't in conflict with the other one. I don't see any contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U209	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U210	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When you submitted a draft law on public service to us a few days ago, I asked you about the term "partner" as to whether this applies not only to different sexes but also to same-sex partners. You gave me a very democratic and competent answer. In § 7 of this bill, a number of relatives have been recounted. This time the term "partner" has not been used at all. Does this relate to a significant difference in the subject matter of these laws, or does the Ministry of Justice itself have no clarity as to the meaning and limits of the use of this term?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U211	Thank you. Knowing your great interest in the question of how same-sex partners should be described in law, I say that the same issue has been raised by a special committee, which has already written a letter on this subject. I think that it is necessary to review the concept of a related person and the concept of a life partner in the draft law on public service, as well as in this draft. I think perhaps a little of this can be justified by the fact that the concept of an official is broader than that of an official. But as far as preventing corruption is concerned, I think there must be some work to be done here with two laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U212	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Compared to the current situation, the draft provides for an amendment that an official must also enter in the declaration of economic interest data on the assets and other advantages received, the market value of which exceeds a certain threshold. In this context, Mr Minister, perhaps you will explain in more detail what benefits have been mentioned here. Unfortunately, I did not receive a clear answer to this question from the draft law or the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U214	Thank you. On page 30 of the explanatory memorandum, it is stated that the information on the asset and other advantages received, the market value of which exceeds the value of the income subject to social tax received by the declarant in the last four months, etc. It also explains that the bill requires the official to declare the gifts and other non-material advantages he has received. Look, on page 30, it's all over the list.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U215	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U216	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The Minister of the Interior, of course, expressed his disagreement on this draft, mainly on the verification of the declaration of economic interests. He wanted that right to be granted to the police and not to the police. I, of course, do not support it and neither did you. But for what reasons did you not take this into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U217	Thank you. I'm not sure our motives match. I am still based on the fact that prevention is the most effective in combating corruption and on the fact that internal security resources should not be fragmented if it is possible to ensure the same result through public support and self-control. This path has been chosen by most European countries, including the Nordic countries. I don't know what your motives are, but I made my decision on this basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U218	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U219	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! A great deal has been said in general terms during the procedure of this draft law that administrative burdens must be reduced and the number of persons required to submit a declaration must decrease. However, at least in the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act, to which I belong, there is no clear position as to how much really the number of declarations is decreasing. At present, rather mysterious figures are moving, for example, that it still stands at 15,000. Or have I got something really wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U220	I don't think you've really misunderstood anything. What remains of this figure depends in many respects on whether the legislator decides to narrow the circle of declarants in the draft or to extend it further. The current number of declarants, I think, is not going to change very much. This depends quite a lot on what choices are made in the special committee of the Riigikogu and in the committee dealing with the draft. That depends on these choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U221	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Can you help me rethink the title of Article 17? Do you think that the wording has succeeded, or would it require some adjustment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U223	Breach of the obligation to obtain a corrupt profit. The content is certainly appropriate here. If the two of us are more specific about this, we can always put a better title.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U224	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U225	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! This is certainly a very good and necessary bill, which can also be improved. But I want to ask you about the corruption committee that I belong to. When we deal with this draft, can we review the rights and powers of this committee so that, should anything suspicious happen, there should be no new committee of inquiry yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U226	Thank you. This is a very interesting and important issue for the legislator. In my opinion, it is not a matter of political views, but more of organisation of work. How does the legislator see this in the future? I think we should look at this as a whole. The debate has also been that maybe members of the Riigikogu should have a code of ethics. What's the essence of this code of ethics? How would it be monitored? Personally, I tend to support the fact that there are some common values that have been formulated in some way. I would rather be in favour of it, let's say as an observer, because these decisions must be taken by the legislator, the executive power cannot intervene if there was a committee in the Riigikogu that could, in different situations, assess that there would not be a long debate every time about whether a new Commission is needed, which may not be the most appropriate one. The special committee has undoubtedly a very capable leader and composition, there are people working there and warm rooms. Perhaps it would be wise to look further from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U227	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the information to be included in the declaration of financial interests. In the future, property, including registered vehicles and real estate, which are not owned by the declarant, must also be indicated, but be in permanent use for at least two months per year, not in a row, but in total for the whole year. Are official cars, for example, used by a minister, an elder or another such person, to be included in the declaration in the future? In this case, how do we deal with every official's job, which I hope we all use permanently for more than two months a year? The second part of the question concerns the electronic register of declarations. If it is created, will the possibility of submitting a declaration on paper disappear at all in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U229	Thank you. I can't even tell you about the other half of the question. I think that, in the future, all declarations could be made in the register. I am talking about this in half the longer, because it is an interesting technological issue, which aims to make life easier for the declarants, so that less data should be provided to the state that the country actually has. Discussions are currently ongoing with, inter alia, the tax administration. Perhaps this issue has also been addressed in the Special Committee, so that if the tax return is completed, it can also be completed. That would probably make everyone's life easier. It may not be a good thing if the person who has to submit a declaration has to look again for these same data and submit them again and again to the state. I think it would be perfect if, in the future, all of this became electronic. It's got a lot of nuances. Firstly, the electronic database provides an opportunity to verify more easily whether everything has been submitted within the deadline, can send reminders. The electronic system will also reduce the administrative burden. This reduces the burden on officials, politicians and any decision-makers. That is, in my opinion, the very right question to raise. I think that is also a great value of this bill. But I don't think anyone's meant the office. Similarly, it is not necessary to declare when someone is in the Council because of their duties. It is also not considered to be a related party. I don't think the point of the law was ever to register a phone or an official car from the workplace. We need to clarify and specify this where necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U230	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U231	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. According to the draft, in the future, the declaration of economic interests should also include property claims against another person and include the value of the claim, the name of the debtor and the basis for the claim. Does the indication of the claim require the agreement of both parties? What if the other party does not accept its claim and only has an oral agreement as the basis and no written agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U232	If you have a claim, you still have to write it down. That's how I'd interpret it. As far as you know, you have a claim. We can specify that if you want, but if you know you have a claim, you should still write it down. Otherwise, these requirements may or may not be magically there. If there is a claim, it should be recorded. At least that's what I'd interpret. But once again: the interpretations given from this remote control are not always the most accurate, it should still be looked at more closely than the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U233	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U234	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Despite my great respect for the Minister, I still have to say that I did not receive an answer to the first question. I wasn't interested in any of the paragraphs, my request was to explain the new term that was introduced. Paragraph 3 (1) (4) states that "the corrupt use of influence'. In the second case, we are talking about dealing with influence. What's the difference? If a member of the opposition has made an amendment to the honourable government bill, perhaps it is a corrupt use of the influence? So I would like a thorough explanation of why the content of this term is different from the trading of influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U235	I'll see. I believe it's written in the explanatory memorandum. I understand earlier that you consider these two points to be contradictory. The question was about § 3. Yeah, I think it's written. This is one of the terms which provides for a prohibition that an official may not do. It is currently formulated as a corrupt use of influence. If you're asking if it's a new composition, it doesn't add anything new. Trade in influence is an activity in the same direction, someone is using and trading their expected or existing influence on someone else. This is exactly the same violation of the principle of honesty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U236	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U237	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The draft anti-corruption law and its entry into the Riigikogu have caused quite a lot of excitement in the large crowds. Obviously, there is a lot of interest in this text. That's why I'm going to question the verbatim. Paragraph 2 (1) states that there is also a freelance officer in the world. I couldn't answer the questioner what that freelance officer meant. Please make this clear to the Estonian people, then it will remain in the historical archives for a long time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U238	Thank you. Simply put, these are liberal professions, such as notaries, executives. In the longer term, the concept of an official in this same anti-corruption law has been formulated a little more broadly; perhaps there is not such a precise list here. It is actually said here that when a person makes certain decisions in a certain way or uses certain resources, he is subject to these obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U239	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U240	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Paragraph 3 (1) (1) of the draft law states that it is forbidden for an official to demand and obtain corrupt income. Shouldn't giving and mediation be equally prohibited?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U241	This issue has been dealt with more generally in the Penal Code. I don't think we should even open this up any longer. There is a debate on how to formulate these compositions. This already concerns the Penal Code, not the Anti-Corruption Act. The question is how mediation and all this is punishable. There are certain nuances. But I think that list is quite enough, nothing more should be added here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U242	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Väino Linde, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, will be present! It's you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U243	Ladies and gentlemen, Good chairman of the sitting! This brief exchange of sentences with the President of the sitting was the paraphrase of one of Oskar Luts' well-known works. However, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs reviewed this draft at its meeting on 2 April and we prepared it for the first reading. This is a draft law against corruption. As we all know, the broader objective of this draft is, firstly, the prevention of corruption and, secondly, the identification of the financial interests of the officials and all related to it, which the Minister already gave a very thorough overview of as a previous speaker. On 2 April, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we reviewed this draft. Several officials and ministers were present from the Ministry of Justice. We were introduced to the bill. We agreed that this bill would rather focus on preventing corruption. Emphasis will be placed on information, public scrutiny and disclosure by officials themselves of their economic interests. Before I speak further, I say that the Commission was completely unanimous, or consensual, that today it would be very appropriate to conclude the first reading of this draft, ladies and gentlemen. If this is the case, the deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days, i.e. s. May 3rd, 6:00 p.m. But now there's this bill. What did we stop at in the Commission? Of course, one important change is the electronic register of declarations of economic interest, where pre-filled declaration forms exist. True, the Commission found that it was not possible to present this declaration form to us in a clear way, but the Ministry officials explained that nothing more could come into this form in principle than the requirements set out in the law. But there's still work to be done on this uniform. We thought about the issue of the need to strike a balance between two things when it comes to publicising economic interests. Firstly, public interest, in certain cases, maybe public curiosity, but generally, it is the public interest to prevent corruption and it wants to know what economic interests one official or another has. This system must satisfy the public interest. On the other hand, there are declarants. These are people who, because of their profession, are public figures who, as an official, have powers of decision on many matters. But they also have the right to privacy. The members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the representatives of the Ministry were in agreement on this need to balance interests. They did not really agree to further widen the circle of declarations or to make all the provisions of the declaration fully public. Certain limitations remain for sensitive personal data. It was also a matter of the fact that the draft form of inspection of the declarations should be used by means of an ID-card in order to identify the person who is interested in them. This possibility still exists in the draft. In the Commission, a good colleague, Andrei Korobenik, asked whether it should not be possible for the declaration holder to identify who had looked at his data, who had entered the query using an ID card. There is currently no such option or obligation in the draft law. The Commission considered, in principle, that it would be necessary in the future to supplement the draft law in such a way that the declarant would also be able to, indeed, look later at who has taken an interest in his economic interests. It's a perfectly legitimate interest, but if it's legal, there's nothing to hide here. It is certainly not a matter of commenting on the Internet, which is anonymous. There was also the question that, in the form of a declaration, there is one question which, according to my wording, is about this: does the declarant have anything else to declare or say that could affect his economic interests? Such a place shall be, and shall be, an additional record by the declarant of what he considers necessary to indicate the declaration. The speaker found that, if there are certain penalties, misdemeanour penalties and what they are, if there is malicious concealment, etc., there is a subjective assessment that a person considers necessary. If one person considers this to be important in any way, but the other official has not made a declaration of the same matter because it is a subjective question, it would not be right to be subject to criminal prosecution. That probably wouldn't go with the principle of legal clarity. What else? Nothing more, I guess. As I said, we decided by consensus that the first reading could be concluded today and that on 3 May at 6 p.m. there would be a deadline for amendments. The Constitutional Committee, together with the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act of the Riigikogu, worked very hard on this draft yesterday, under the leadership of the Chairman of the Special Committee, Mr Anvelt. We reviewed possible amendments to this draft, for example, whether to narrow down the number of declarations, whether or not to include any additional data, whether to consider the right of access expressly given to the registrar by law. There were several other amendments. But it is all a matter of the future in terms of this bill that we can discuss after the first reading has been completed. All amendments by everyone here are also welcome, as are proposals from committees and political groups. I am pleased to conclude by pointing out that there was no waterlock between the opposition and the coalition when dealing with this draft, as has sometimes been the case with political drafts. The questions were simply what one provision or another means, how to interpret it, how to understand it, how the public understands it. In this sense, this procedure was somewhat extraordinary in a good way, but it is only in this way that these issues can be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U244	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U245	Thank you, good manager. Good co-rapporteur! My question is about declarations of economic interest. At the moment, it is relatively often felt that this declaration is perhaps too paper because of the paper, it is not possible to draw any conclusions, the information it contains is static and maybe does not show real interests. Does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs agree that the rules introduced by the new law, and perhaps a new form of declaration that you have not yet seen, will help to avoid such statements in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U246	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs agrees, as you have now pointed out, that the electronic register to be set up on the basis of the draft is a step forward and the declaration is certainly not treated simply as paper for paper sake. But, as I said, the purpose of this bill is precisely to prevent corruption. From the point of view of evidence, this may not be a very high level of evidence in criminal investigations, there are other evidence, sources and materials. However, disclosure is important, as is the provisions that the Minister explained earlier, according to which a declaration should be made if the property is used for a certain period of time for two months or more. Yesterday, we reached a common position with the Special Committee that the declaration should also mention the income from abroad (or how it was formulated exactly, I will not be able to recount it from my head). In any case, such a declaration reflects the reality of the situation in a much more flexible way, which is the opposite of static. It is possible to read a lot from here, precisely what the official's interests are. On this basis, the public can also draw the necessary conclusions. This does not mean that the official's financial interests are prohibited, but he must bring them out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U247	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U248	The historic importance of this proposal is that we can also apply the rules and provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act in the future using e-Governance capabilities by creating an electronic register. The public will be able to consult the declarations of the financial interests of the officials there. We, too, I mean officials, do not have to fill them out on paper. The rules that need to be recorded in the declaration have been made much more precise in order to reflect the actual economic situation of the official and the conclusions drawn by the public correspond to the exact situation. The minister gave a good example: if an official uses his mother's car, it still has to be recorded, it should not be hidden. There are other really important points here. Why not conclude in a private manner, as stated in the draft explanatory memorandum, that, among other things, the secondary objective of the draft is to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens and increase transparency on these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U249	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Aivar Riisalu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U250	I'll take eight minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U251	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U252	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is undoubtedly a historic draft. A good colleague asked why this draft had not been processed during the previous term. One might say that, on the one hand, a beautiful explanation was given as to why it was left behind, on the other hand, there are several questions about why it was left in the air. I dared joke in the hall that it suddenly stopped because some political forces needed more money, but now it's all been caught. It is clear that this is a consensual draft. We'll take the parties, especially the Centre Party, which currently has 13,000 members. There have always been citizens among us who have erred against basic rules and who are corrupt. They're exposed, and we condemn their behavior in the deepest sense. But they can also blam all the honest people who belong to this party. That, of course, is why we want the situation to be brought under control. I am absolutely sure that, unfortunately, with this draft, we will not be able to resolve one of the most painful issues in this area. This is the same issue of influence mentioned today in the Chamber. It's the kind of devil that floats over us, it doesn't want to go anywhere. Consider a simple example. If you're gonna do something and you want to put it somewhere, then at some point there's like butterflies, but the next minute, there's no butterflies. It's like all the butterflies went to live in a zoo. The question is, what happened in the meantime? Did the butterflies realize that construction was needed for Estonia's development and volunteered to go to the zoo, did someone tell the butterflies to go to the zoo, or did the butterflies just disappear because they did not exist? Such examples could be very numerous. On the plus side, I dare bear in mind that the most important factor in combating corruption is the development of society. I know one person in this hall who, in the first ten years of the restored Republic of Estonia, had no registered traffic violations, although I am absolutely certain that he was speeding. But also in the second decade, he doesn't have any traffic violations because he's no longer afraid of speeding. You keep thinking about what I was going to say and who I was talking about. Now we are saying that we would like to reduce the administrative burden with this bill. Absolutely right, that would be very reasonable. That is why I am proposing that those whose declarations we make public should be included in the group of declarations. In the other cases, we should use the magical opportunity which, by the way, helps to combat corruption very effectively. Now, on behalf of our party, I am giving advice on how to behave, and I hope that all the other parties will also support this idea. Heads of institutions whose staff is formally required to make a declaration could, if necessary, be entitled to ask for that declaration. Perhaps we will not require these declarations from people on a regular basis if we do not disclose them. In this way we will significantly reduce the number of persons subject to declarations, but we will retain the opportunity to ask the person with 10 days' notice of the declaration, for example. Unfair people are usually a little weird, and they have the ability to become sloppy. If a person knows in advance that he or she needs to produce such or such a document each year, or with such parameters, he or she is not wrong about anything. In fact, it is difficult to understand what is happening in his soul and how he lives. But if we leave the board of directors of the institution the opportunity to ask for this declaration unexpectedly, I think we will quite certainly discover a lot more cases of corruption than we have done so far and perhaps in the near future we will. This really shows society that we trust our people, especially the officials, but, on the other hand, we maintain clear control over them. My argument is that there is no point in writing thousands and thousands of declarations into the drawer. It's not effective, and it really makes these people come up with all kinds of crutches they might not do otherwise. This law is, in any case, vital for the various stakeholders in society. I hope that we will process this draft quite effectively this time. As a member of the Special Commission, I have experienced that it matters to the people. Our sacred cause is to meet people's expectations. Why am I defending the view that the number of declarants should not be very high? You see, in the Special Committee in recent times, we have looked at the declarations of the people on quite a number of occasions and tried to find something in them, let's say something that might suggest something. We acknowledge honestly and directly that there is no more solid paper in the world than, for example, the declaration of the financial interests of a member of the Riigikogu. It's such an iron document that nothing ever comes out of it. As a result, I would argue that it is much more effective to catch people using their distractions. I wish us the strength in our work to process this bill to the end! Indeed, there have not been many cases when all parties represented in the hall have worked in consensus and have achieved the best result in improving Estonian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U253	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, honorable penguin. I ask you a question about your own questions from the gold fund: would you put together a few words that are most important in this bill, or what is the historical significance of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U254	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 192 amendments at 6 p.m. on 3 May. The first reading is closed and the last item has also been dealt with. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U255	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U256	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I left my second question to you precisely because you were a Member of Parliament during the previous term. The same bill was then processed. This draft was put to the procedure two years before the end of the previous term of office. The first reading was completed, but for some reason in two years this law was no longer removed from the drawer and, as a result of the change of composition, it fell out of the procedure. What was the reason why this law was no longer being processed at the time, and how is the schedule of the current draft law planned, when is it attempted to form the bill into a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-18_U257	Thank you, good questioner! That is a good question and it is good to talk about this at the moment. The title of this draft, which we dealt with during the previous Riigikogu, was the Anti-Corruption Act, and the draft that we are dealing with today has the same title, and the law that is currently in force has the anti-corruption law. However, today's draft is not the same as the one that was pending during the previous Riigikogu, in wording, technical terms and in all that. Except that there was also a plan to establish an electronic register, but in the previous draft, the circle of declarants was very, very narrow compared to what is in the draft law that we are dealing with today. It was limited to the highest powers in the country, and then there was something else. I was one of those who took that view, and there were others who found that if this circle gets so narrow that only a very small number of people submit declarations of economic interests, although this may be due to the desire to have a quick overview and to carry out a thorough check, it may also be that the signal to the public is quite the opposite: search for corruptants only among those who make the declaration, but not among those who do not have to make it compulsory. Case law has shown that corruption does not really ask about the height and importance of a position, but it can find its own ground in very different places. What other reasons were there? I remember that there were very different requirements in this declaration form and there were several improvements. It would have been quite difficult to comply with this, given which other persons involved in the declarant had to be included in the declaration in some way. It was not necessary to state as specifically as the draft we are discussing today that the persons and family members involved or how it is written here. There were quite a few nuances. Since we did not quite agree with the authors of the draft, this draft was not processed in the Riigikogu due to the run-out of time.
