ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 36 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 65 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U2	Let's get to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, 11 issues have been registered today and, therefore, I will allow each of them, in addition, two on-the-spot issues. So whoever has faster fingers gets that right. Let's get started. Mr Simson, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U3	Prime Minister! Four weeks ago, I asked you about the strike that's about to start. My first question was due to the fact that the Minister for Social Affairs said that he was not responsible for the health sector and it was known that the strike would start in the coming days. I asked if it wasn't time the Prime Minister took responsibility at government level. The health care workers' strike is now on for the fourth week and we have received proposals from the Estonian Association of Physicians and the Estonian Professional Health Care Professionals Association. The first suggests that ensuring the sustainability of the health system would be directly the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs and that it should be formulated by the government. Have you addressed this issue in the government and perhaps found that someone in the Government of the Republic should, however, be directly responsible for the health care system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U4	Again, I have to make some adjustments. Hanno Pevkur has never claimed that he is not responsible for the health sector or, as you mentioned, for the development of this sector in Estonia. He is responsible, and Hanno Pevkur has never claimed otherwise. However, Hanno Pevkur has argued that in the labour dispute between hospitals and doctors, the Minister of Social Affairs is not a party to the negotiations, and that is true. I have also read this letter from the Estonian Medical Association and the Estonian Health Care Professionals' Association and I know these proposals to ensure the sustainability of the health care system. As regards the specific proposal on liability to lay down the Health Services Management Act, which is responsible for the organisation and functioning of specialist medical care in the Republic of Estonia, I note that according to the basic regulation, the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for organising medical care, i.e. legislation, strategic development plans, etc., the Estonian Health Insurance Fund is responsible for financing, the Health Board is responsible for operating licenses and supervision. Therefore, the areas of responsibility are very clearly fixed in the legislation, and I would recommend that everyone who has some reservations - doubts about those responsible - get acquainted with the legislation. There they find those responsible for specific sections. Of course, as regards the letter as a whole, it must be said that the demands made in it are not suitable for the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U6	Prime Minister! Both I and probably many other people in Estonia are concerned that the Minister of Social Affairs says that he does not currently have the competence to negotiate. Indeed, a number of healthcare professionals' proposals concern finding additional money in health care. Does the government intend to discuss these proposals? Here, it is not enough for the Minister of Social Affairs to decide how to increase the health revenue base, how to comply with the law and cover the cost of hospitals' buildings from the state budget, how to set zero VAT on health services, or how to finance the general assistance of uninsured persons from the state budget. When will the government deal with these proposals at government level?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U7	I cannot promise that we will definitely discuss this at government level, but I can give you an answer to some of the questions you have just asked. It is not possible to set a zero VAT rate for health services in the current European area of justice, because, according to the rules agreed in the European Union, healthcare is a VAT-free service and we do not have the right to impose a zero tax rate on it. What a zero-percent tax rate means is probably what people who have been in contact with entrepreneurship imagined. This means that, if, at present, the health service is simply exempt from tax, in future, it would be possible to recover the VAT paid by the tax authorities for all other costs. This money, I think, is not willing to be transferred from the budget by our workers in other areas of life. There are many other fine proposals here, for example, that Estonia should finance health care at the European Union average as a percentage of GDP. On the basis of the WHO methodology, this would amount to almost 900 million additional EUR for health care. I don't see a way to take that money from anywhere. There are a number of other proposals, such as lifting the payment of disability benefits out of the sickness insurance fund. It is quite a proposal, but it means EUR 90 million again, and the question is, where is this money to be paid out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U9	Prime Minister! You did not comment on one of the health professionals' proposals. This is to cover the depreciation of the buildings of health care providers from the state budget, which would allow more health care funds to be used for health care services. When you answered the first question, you suggested that you look at the legislation. That is why my question is: why has the Government of the Republic not complied with the Health Services Organisation Act since 2009 and covered the depreciation of the buildings of health care providers from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U10	I'm a little different. I believe that not only is depreciation covered by the state budget, but investment in the hospital network has also been paid off to a very large extent. Between 2004 and 2006, EUR 25 million was invested in the hospital network from the state budget and EUR 110 million will be invested in the current period 2007 to 2013. These are huge sums of money. If you look at the money from the structural funds alone, there are 2.5 billion more than the depreciation of buildings, or several orders of magnitude, in crowns, after two periods in total. It is completely wrong to understand that the reimbursement of depreciation costs would allow the funds to be used for other purposes. No, no! The depreciation funds are still designed to enable a new building to be built once the hospital has completely depreciated one day. New buildings have now been built by the state. The depreciation amounts can also be used to restore it if the building is partially depreciated. For this purpose, the state has allocated, as I have already said, 2.5 billion kroons. That's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U11	And now two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U12	Prime Minister! Surely we are all very happy that our hospital network is gradually being renovated. But at the same time it is well known to you that when the Riigikogu discussed the cost of capital directly from the state budget and not through the health insurance fund, there was a reason for the proposal to give more money to treat patients. But my question concerns a problem that I am sure you are aware of thanks to your husband. It is a fact that our young people have been receiving very good job offers elsewhere since the third year of their medical studies. If the data from the university clinic are true, the proportion of students studying Finnish and Swedish is very high. Question: if our young people are ready to leave Estonia so early, how is our health care sustainable?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U13	One minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U14	Students in other fields, if they are talented students, will probably receive very good offers in the very first courses. I hope that it will continue to be so that talent is rewarded with good job offers. Now the question of whether buildings should be treated as separate from the general health system is to be financed from separate sources. My unequivocal position is that it should not come. This is not reasonable, it is not practical and it is not based on any economic logic. No one can imagine that you will go to the store and first pay for the bread to the one in whose premises the baker cooks the bread, and then you will pay the baker for his work and his flour. This is one of the areas of management and optimal levels of expenditure must be found taking into account the whole. For example, if someone else is responsible for building buildings in the medical system, not the health insurance fund and the hospital itself, the buildings may be neglected and health care may suffer altogether. The premises may prove to be unsuitable for the provision of health care services because the priorities are different. In another case, however, the requirement may be so robust and strong that too much is being built and what is built for taxpayers' money is not actually being used. Therefore, the whole system should be managed by a single centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U15	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lenk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U16	Prime Minister! You stressed that we have a Minister of Social Affairs in charge of health care. That's right, of course. However, while following negotiations with strikers, I have the impression that the competence of the Minister for Social Affairs does not allow him to allow doctors one or the other, he says that he still needs to clarify it, etc. For example, if there was a question of whether the Health Insurance Fund's reserves were still in place or whether they had gone for a walk into another state budget and had already been introduced, then the Minister of Social Affairs was unable to give an exhaustive answer to this. My question: shouldn't the Prime Minister take the floor in such a difficult situation and explain something to the people? You've been quiet about the doctors' strike so far. Are you afraid to burn yourself? This is a very dangerous issue in itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U17	This memory shouldn't be so short now that you forget the last time I answered questions before you in Question Time, including the questions of the health care professionals' strike. The Health Insurance Fund reserves are, of course, still in place. It is worth reminding us all right now what the decisions were that allowed the Health Insurance Fund to maintain reserves throughout this global financial crisis. Firstly, the same 2.5 billion kroons invested from the state budget in the development of the hospital network, and secondly, the painful decisions we made in the summer of 2009. I remember then, on the proposal of the Government of the Honourable Riigikogu, decided that the sustainability of the Health Insurance Fund should be improved in financial terms. The decision was to increase the patient's own participation in such a way that no disability benefit was paid for the first three days of illness. We also decided to impose an obligation on the employer to pay a disability benefit to a sick worker for five days. While the maximum amount of incapacity benefit before this decision was 2.4 billion kroons per year, the maximum reduction due to these decisions was 1.15 billion kroons per year. The same obligation to pay disability benefits to an entrepreneur is essentially the source of the result not allocated by the sickness fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U18	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U19	The next question is from my colleague, Karel Rüütel, to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U20	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. The forest is the wealth and pride of our people, which must be managed in a prudent manner. The wise master not only goes into the woods to take it, but the forest must always be returned. Under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, the state budgets have foreseen that in 2011, 2012 and 2013 the total amount of owner's income and income tax will be taken out of RMK for a total amount of EUR 89,7 million. As a result of all of this, the government has essentially brought the current account of the state company to zero. At the same time, the draft state budget requires you to grant RMK 20 million short-term loans for one year so that the company's economic activity does not stop. Why has the State decided, in the interests of budgetary balance, to significantly discourage economic activity in a state enterprise from which all income is taken out as dividends by one hand, and on the other hand loans are granted to the company from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U21	It's like you had the exact same text in front of us yesterday, and in the exact same wording you read it out. So what's the point of this question? Is it okay to take out the owner's income? RMK's fine. Is it possible to provide liquidity support to an organisation that it owns? It's okay. It's a very natural activity. The dividend is by its very nature something other than the annual loan that will be repaid. So I really don't see a problem here. I have already told you enough that this is how one of the right owners will do it: he will use the income from his property according to his own needs. And the forest is only satisfied. You yourself are among those who think of forests as primarily a means of management. My natural, nature conservation background is rather stronger, but of course I do not resent forest management in any way, just as you do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U22	Please, Mr Karel Rüütel, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U23	Good minister! RMK manages 40% of all forest land in Estonia. More than 8,000 km of forest roads have been built for this purpose. Since Estonia's forest land is predominantly excessive, more than 400000 hectares of land improvement systems have been established, most of the years 1960 to 1980. About 400 km of roads and 15,000 hectares of drainage systems should be reconstructed each year. This has been done much less for various reasons. Without additional investment in roads and drainage systems, the productivity of forest land will fall, the quantity of material available will decrease, and the revenue of the state will also decrease. In a ten-year perspective, cutting capacity may decrease from 3 million cubic metres to 2 million. The turnover of RMK will then decrease from 130 million to 80 million euros and the profit will be estimated at 10 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U24	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U25	Minister, without investment, the ability of the state forest to generate profits for its future owner will deteriorate significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U26	Once again, I am distracted by my natural history that was my first education. I am more of a member of this school, who thinks that the drainage and management of the forest has gone too far for decades. I don't think there's anything wrong with some part of our forest's natural appearance getting worse. I mean, they're making an effort to restore the bogs. It is precisely this land improvement that they are trying to reverse. The moss is my favorite community at all, there is nothing more beautiful in the whole world. So land improvement is not the ultimate goal, and transporting roads to the forest should not be the basic dream of a man who respects the forest. Society could build you in many other places. You fluently read some kind of bill. I once argued with the Road Administration, which has set itself some percentages and billions that need to be put on asphalt all the time. As if there were no economic reality and no boundaries of society's wealth. Let this forest be managed! If you look at the revenue taken out of RMK, it is much smaller now than it was a few years ago when your new party belonged to the government coalition. There is no sin in it if the Estonian people receive support from the forest. But this is not the ultimate goal of asphalting the forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U27	Please, Mr Karel Rüütel, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U28	Good minister! Of course, it is not possible to drain all the forests and there is no way to make roads everywhere. Today we are talking about the forests that the State Forest Management Centre should manage and which should bring the greatest benefit to the people of Estonia and the state, as the state wishes. In my opinion, however, a situation is currently being created in which the State, the Ministry of Finance, goes against subsections 8 (1) and 8 (4) of the State Property Act, which say that a sovereign is obliged to manage state assets in a purposeful, rational, sustainable and prudent manner and that, when carrying out any activity involving state assets, the sovereign must be guided by the principle of increasing the benefits and avoiding the damage that the State may suffer from these operations and transactions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U29	It still sounds a little awful that the forest should reap maximum economic benefits. RMK was created in such a strange legal form because it has two functions. And one of them is nature conservation, its function is not just management. So don't exaggerate in this sense if you're only under the Treasury Act. There is no conflict with the law here. As far as I know, Estonia's forests have been better managed. And they're better guarded, there's nothing to complain about. The withdrawal of dividends or ownership income from RMK is a natural thing. Your party is the first party to insist all the time on raising public expenditure outside the forest, where the person lives. In fact, in this sense, you are right that expenditure for the benefit of a person can really be made outside the forest and that the costs of the forest must be in some reasonable proportion to economic and nature conservation objectives. The forest is managed, and it's managed quite well. I'm sure you know a lot of people who do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U30	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U31	Good minister! I'd like to come back to that budget trick. If, in a private enterprise, a company earns a very high income in one year, it logically hopes for dividends, owner's income. However, if, at the same time, it provides that this income will not be generated next year and that the company will need additional money, it will rather not pay out dividends or withdraw the owner's income. Hence the question: how is it economically justified that the owner's income is taken out of RMK and that the second hand essentially gives him the same amount of loan back? What is its financial economic justification?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U32	I don't know what kind of trick you're talking about! If the chairman of your party, I am now thinking of a new party, the Minister of Finance was the Minister of Finance, then 43 million were removed from RMK. Now I am the Minister of Finance, and in 2013 this amount will be 17 million. It's true, we took more this year. The decision shall be taken as far as possible. There's no trickery at all. That's completely pointless talk for the second day in a row. This is not a trick when an organisation receives more liquidity to pay out the owner's income. It's not a trick. The state simply behaves as a 'bank' because, due to the legal form of RMK, the real bank cannot lend to RMK. It would not be natural for RMK not to borrow at all, but to raise capital. The proportions of foreign and equity in the economy have long been discussed. There is no doubt that keeping only equity capital is very expensive and also pointless. Loan capital can increase financial capacity, which is entirely natural. Of course, in all this talk there is a wish that you would actually like to make RMK a public limited company to maximize profits and other goals as if they weren't. That has not been our goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U33	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Kalvi Tough, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U34	Good minister! Indeed, yesterday at first reading of the state budget, there was quite a lot of talk about this issue in this Chamber, and my question is motivated by yesterday's discussion. You claimed that the ownership capital was really expensive and that additional capital should be used. In the Ministry of Finance, have you thought about bringing the forest of Estonia to the stock market?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U35	I suspect the knight of Karel when he says that the maximum profit is the goal we're keeping the forest for. It's not just a profit goal. No, there's no idea of placing them on the stock market. However, since RMK legally does not have the possibility of normal economic activity, which should be carried out by an economic organisation, it optimizes the ratio between foreign and equity. As he cannot borrow from the market, he will take it from the Treasury and pay it back at the end of the year. There's no trickery here, it's perfectly natural. The only trick is that an organisation has put together an economy and nature protection, and that is why it is a unique legal form. There's no point in placing them on the stock market. That's what they're asking in this hall for the right number of times this year. You don't have to ask all the time. This week, we will talk about the same subject for the second time, but the week has only just begun.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U36	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U37	The next question is from my colleague Lauri Laas to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U38	Honourable Minister of Economic Affairs! Last week, before the publication of mistrust, you visited us in the group and said that the law amending the Electricity Market Act will immediately arrive in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, with the adoption of which the renewable energy fee reflected in the electricity bills of consumers will decrease. It seemed so sympathetic to me that I voted with a really heavy heart for your mistrust. I even wondered if I was gonna do it. But today, I'm looking at this table, under the table and in the desk drawer, this promised bill is nowhere. Where is this bill going, and when will it end up in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U39	The brief answer is that the bill is in the government of the Republic. As soon as the government approves, he'll be on your desk, not in the drawer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U40	Please, Mr Laas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U41	I'd be more specific about why it's taken so long. There's been some talk about this bill. Is it true that the Reform Party still opposed the bill and you had a pretty hard fight in the government? Did gentlemen sitting on your right prohibit you from presenting this bill? What did you do to make it so far that the bill was finally in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U42	That's not true. Well, I guess that's been discussed a lot. Last time the cabinet agreed on all the questions, there was a very constructive debate. This week has simply gone on a draft for technical formalisation of the Ministry of Justice, other ministries, etc. I hope, of course, that it will now reach the Chamber of Riigikogu as well, but the discussion with market participants, other interested parties and the government has been constructive. The only one I can't make any assessment of is the opposition. Whether you support or not, you stand for the interests of a particular businessman or you fight for the poor on this issue has not understood. You yourself voted in favour of this bill in 2007, the party has big debts. I don't know, it's crazy looking at you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U43	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U44	Good minister! Economic analyst Maris Lauri has said that the government would have been able to significantly reduce the price increase if the free market had not been switched so quickly. It would have been right to switch to the free market if Estlink 2 had been built. Why was the free market transferred so quickly, and why wasn't it meant to have gone a little later?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U45	It's not quite fair to say we're going very fast. When we look at Estonia's recent history, we went to the market economy 20 years ago. We have opened virtually all the monopolistic markets that we have used so far. In particular, as far as the electricity market is concerned, it was decided by the State in 2002, so for 11 years we have been driving ahead. As far as Estlink 2 is concerned, first of all, it seems to me that it is a bit overrated, precisely in terms of price depreciation. It is still worth thoroughly examining the average prices in the Nordic electricity market regions. If we look at Northern Estonia and the Baltics, the prices of the Estonian power exchange are more favourable. But, of course, the more this trade is, the better our position for investment is, and I believe that it is also the best for the consumer. If the facts about Estlink 2 are to be clarified, the cooperation project between the two countries has been carried out for a long time. When we started doing this in 2007, even in 2008 and 2009, the situation of our Finnish friends was quite rigid because our market was not open. And when we opened up the market to companies with a consumption of more than two gigawatt-hours a year, there were also a huge number of ideas in this Chamber, I remember, that we would postpone. We postpone, the Estonian economy collapses, we cannot export! However, this step was expected in Finland, and it was a strong step towards us moving forward with this project. I think that from this point on, the Estlink 2 project has been relatively rapid. I hope that it will be ready in 2014. This provides an additional opportunity to trade electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U46	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U47	Minister, thank you very much. I would like to return to the infamous agreement you signed with your good supporters during the election, promising to lower home expenses. We have discussed this in this Chamber, and you have also discussed this in the Forum. You have argued that, in fact, the content of this agreement is that we have a nationwide noble goal of renovating houses. I have asked several of your constituents and your supporters about this. They realized that this would also mean a reduction in the monthly bill they would get home. I have a question for you. If there is a person who is unable to pay for electricity due to the increase in electricity prices, what can you tell him? What to say to people who not only have to pay for more expensive electricity but also have to pay the banker interest because they have renovated their house. How do you look them in the eye?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U48	Once again, the biggest cost of homework on our accounts is the cost of heating. I don't want to take a wild shot at the percentages, but the fact is that about 98% of the housing fund has an unreasonable amount of heating costs. On average, the heating costs of our housing fund are twice as high as in Finland, but Finland is north of us. How can heating costs be reduced? I imagine that people have thought that we would simply start to compensate for the budget. No, our idea is that we should stop wasting. If we invest in our homes, heating costs will be reduced, however, depending on the house, but on average 50%. It's a real win-win in the family budget. Of course, you must invest in your home! In order to make this investment easier, the government has the power to offer a certain carrot, certain support programmes, so that a person does not have to borrow too much as a homeowner. It's very simple. I believe that this is why many voters have come from your support to ours instead.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U49	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U50	The next question is from my colleague, Urve Palo, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U51	Dear Minister, Indeed, a year and a half ago, as Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, you led your party's campaign 'Home expenses down! '. A week ago, your performance at the Forum gave the impression that you thought people were naive when you thought that the IRL was really going to cut home expenses or resist their growth. That people should have read more about the election program, which says that you meant only the KredEx instruments. To date, thanks to the support of KredEx, 2% of the Estonian housing fund has been completely renovated. My question is: are you satisfied with this result and what are the plans for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U52	By the way, I'd like to clarify your introductory statement. Not only was the insulation of houses, savings in heating costs through investments in the IRL election programme, but there were other points. I certainly didn't speak naively on the Forum. I told you that your party's secretary-general didn't bother to read our election program during the election campaign and play the unknown. Read it, and you'll see what our plans were. An equally important issue is certainly the containment of monopolies, the ability of the Competition Authority to control the prices of different monopoly services on a cost-based basis. That is a very important question. But now to your question. I don't think this pace is a bad start. When we opened this programme in 2010, we actually had quite a concern that we would not be able to take advantage of this EUR 30 million. There was a lot of skepticism. By the end of 2012, we have managed to make more or less the planned amount, or EUR 30 million, of investments where the state will contribute 15%, 25% or 35% depending on the project. I think this is a pretty good start. Now the real question is: how do we proceed? It is certainly important that we keep this support programme up on the government side so much that it works reasonably. In next year's budget, we have planned EUR 10 million in revenues for the new CO2 quota trading scheme. We have made different calculations by 2014 to 2020 (we look forward to seven years). I think that this source could be.. this is a forum for discussion.. 2014 on energy efficiency investments in the European Union. There is, in any case, a rather broad consensus within the European Union to invest in it. I think that we could, for the next seven years, expect EUR 150 to 200 million, not more. It's not a lot of money, but I think the country has kept its word.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U53	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U54	Thank you, Minister. In replying to your mistrust last week, you said that, according to your vision, half of the housing fund built before 1993, thanks to KredEx's involvement, has been renovated by 2020. If you look at KredEx's financial and action plans up to 2020, it is true that it is intended to continue on the same scale as the last two years. This means that about 500000 square metres per year will be renovated. So by 2020, we will be able to renovate about 12% of old houses. Were you wrong last week talking about 50%? Perhaps you have changed your mind today and will be happy when we reach 12% by 2020 and it will take 80 years to complete the round?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U55	No, I wasn't. We can always talk about some kind of purpose. I think the key question is how people come with it. This is actually a critical factor in this venture, not that state support or, as you say, the KredEx instrument. The key question is the willingness of the Estonian apartment owners to come with them, after all, most Estonian families live in an apartment. This financial plan, which is made better by the cookie proposed by the state, is, in my opinion, a secondary issue. The main thing is that the owners of the apartments require the managers of their building management to undertake serious insulation projects. If it goes on with more mass, the country will probably be able to come back if necessary. That's one. Secondly, no one prohibits people from heating without state support. We are now looking for an opportunity to launch these absolutely sensible forward-looking investments in themselves. I think that's the key question. I would also call on you to help, to encourage people to do so, because we know that the general attitude of people is cautious. It is understandable, it requires certain steps, may require high costs. In this sense, all of this makes people hesitate at first.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U56	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U57	Personally, I do not mind, and I very much support people renovating their houses. But I understand that fulfilling your contract meant to a large extent that people simply renovate their houses for their money. Got it! But I'm gonna ask you more about home expenses. Electricity markets are opening up, electricity prices are rising. You said you'd be here soon with a bill that would reduce green pay. Let's just say it reduces people's electricity bills by about 1%. So let's not make a big deal of it. At the beginning of the week, Praxis also said that the State could influence the final price of electricity. The Social Democrats have made a number of proposals for this. I ask you: do you also intend to take serious concrete steps to ease the rise that is coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U58	Thank you for that compliment. Reducing renewable energy charges over seven years will mean a win for consumers of EUR 350 million compared to the law currently in force, and you say this is a non-serious undertaking!? I don't agree with that. When we get here before the Riigikogu with this bill and the Riigikogu approves it, consumers will actually pay 350 million euros less in seven years. Of course, I could dream of even greater savings in this regard, but we must also take into account the economic reality, the investments made, etc. In my opinion, it is worth considering as relatively reasonable. Praxis' study, I must honestly admit, I must have missed what Prax may have proposed. In addition to this renewable energy charge, all proposals mainly go there to reduce indirect taxes or to grant exemptions from indirect taxes. We know that the general exception to indirect taxes would mean that we support those who can manage themselves. However, it is better to support those who really cannot do so, and for this we have foreseen in the government to increase income support in the budget of next year to around EUR 600000, which is a forecast, due to the possible price of energy. We all believe that if we open the market, the market price will still be the fairest in the long term. The artistic price was now we are producing electricity with old boilers built during the Russian era, and without costing capital, we are getting seemingly cheap electricity from a farthest perspective of self-deception. But my time ran out, ask for an additional question, then we'll talk further.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U59	Now, please ask the questions on the ground. Let's start with Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U60	Honourable Minister of Economic Affairs! As I understand it, saving a drowner is a matter of the drowner's own business, and the state has no intention of offering a support programme for KredEx until, more or less, all habitable apartment buildings have been made heat-resistant. And this is in a situation where almost 97% of the housing fund belongs to private individuals, many of whom too many, as we well know, are also unable to cope with the current, ever-increasing cost of compulsory housing. You have mentioned here before the Riigikogu, and the government has also made it clear by its inaction that the IRL agreement on reducing home expenses is, in fact, the electoral agreement with itself. It's been a scam from the beginning. I have a question for you: why do you think voters have pike memories? Everyone can see that home expenses have increased by at least 16%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U61	Honourable questioner! Can you stop this, I don't mean lying, but not telling the truth? We have repeatedly talked about the IRL's home cost reduction programme. Take out this program point by point and see if we have completed it or not. You're dealing with simple propaganda, which, frankly, I don't want to spend much time in the hall. We're fulfilling our contract with the voter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U62	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Vakra.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U63	Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you for knowing exactly what I imagined in the previous response, and you also gave a nice description of it. The Democrats have repeatedly expressed their perception in these drafts too and have proposed that renewable energy charges could be paid with money from the sale of emission allowances, thereby reducing electricity prices to close to 13% for all consumers. But I have this question about home expenses. I agree that buildings must be insulated, houses must be renovated and loans must be taken for this. I myself have the honor of living in a renovated apartment building. But I still won't save much time to conclude all of this. Looking at my own account, I can see that I'm just paying the same amount of money to the bank. How do I actually have lower home expenses now? I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U64	If you pay less for heating, you'll pay less for home expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U65	Now, I will stop dealing with this issue. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U66	Let's go to the next question. Please, Mr Vakra, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Postimees is already writing a daily sequel about the Enterprise Estonia and all of them have negative titles. For example: 'Euromillion companies went to the wind', 'Cabinet logic: dim and vassi', etc. In short, the Estonian state was close to fully shutting down the European money sink, as companies were delayed in investigating the infringement of the European Union's millions of payment arrangements. The total amount is 10.5 million euros and the problem is currently affecting 61 companies in Estonia who have received support from EAS. The audit recommended: act, look for an error, carry out an analysis of the whole. Such an almost harsh order was given to EAS a year ago, as the auditors seemed to have a systemic error. I have a question: why was it delayed so long? And how do you appreciate the actions of the EAS management and council in solving problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U68	The claims that money went to the wind are, of course, a clear exaggeration. Neither has the money been blown to the wind from the articles. However, the money has been invested where it is allowed to invest, and there has been no suspicion of wasting or committing a crime, as far as I know, neither the journalists nor the auditors have. However, there is a doubt that the incentive effect of the aid has not always been met. In many cases, 58 plus 3 of these drivers are currently listed in the contract for the procurement of a piece of equipment in the first place, followed by an application to the EAS to finance the project. However, the rules of the European Union provide that action must not begin until an application for funding has been made. And the conclusion of an agreement, if the agreement is binding, is to be interpreted in accordance with the rules of the European Union as starting operations. The projects funded by EAS have been 7457 according to the Ministry of Finance and 7462 according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The number of projects diverges because the reports are presented at different times. And with respect to 58 plus 3 projects, there are currently doubts that the incentive effect requirement is not met. These doubts are not firmly confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U69	Please, Mr Vakra, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U70	Prime Minister! As a prime minister, you are expected to be well informed of the confusion in the EAS. According to the law, the appointment of the members of the EAS Board is the responsibility and responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs. What is your assessment of the activities of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, in relation to what is happening at the Enterprise Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U71	Unfortunately, it is not the case that the Prime Minister is absolutely aware of everything that happens in Estonian ministries and other government institutions, foundations, non-profit organizations and elsewhere. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister has not been informed early about the problems of EAS either. I also have no data on whether the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has been warned of any problems that might arise for a long time, so it is an asset and certainly inappropriate to make assessments now. What has happened is, of course, regrettable and the Enterprise Estonia must find a solution that is as painless as possible for businesses. Even today, we do not know for all 58 + 3 companies whether or not these contracts for the acquisition of equipment have been binding. If it has not been a binding contract, if it has been a contract which may be withdrawn, the existence of such contracts should not automatically mean that the requirement of incentive effect has been infringed. The problem is complicated, however, and I hope that the Enterprise Estonia will find a solution to this, so that businesses will not suffer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U72	Please, Mr Vakra, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U73	Prime Minister! When Res Publica became a government for the first time, it was promised that the councils of state-owned companies should be turned into an apolitical one. We are now seeing how this has been successful for EAS, Eesti Energia, Tallinn Port and Estonian Railway. As Prime Minister, how do you assess whether politicised councils in 2012 will justify themselves in order to ensure better development of the Estonian state, where often professional competence and loyalty to the party are unfortunately not proportional?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U74	You probably know my position, and that is also the question of whether members of the Riigikogu may belong to the council of state-owned companies. I have always found and still find that members of the Riigikogu must also participate in the management of state-owned companies. In fact, there have been many who have expressed their views on this issue, and there have also been no Chancellors of Justice who have believed that the members of the Riigikogu and politicians should not, in principle, take part in the management of companies. The question is how members of the Riigikogu are appointed to the board of companies. If politicians were not involved in corporate governance, it would be expected that no public objectives would be pursued in these companies, and that the ultimate goal of companies would be simply to maximise profits. As we know, in Estonia, companies whose ultimate goal was to maximize profits and which had no public functions have long been privatized. And if we have state-owned companies, through which we also seek some sort of public functions, then, of course, politicians must also participate in company councils.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U75	We will probably be able to hear another issue registered on the spot. Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U76	Prime Minister! I'm taking this opportunity to ask you about EAS. If you look at the homepage of EAS, you can see that the reception of a very large number of applications has been completed because there is no money. For the same reason, staff have been significantly reduced. My question is, how do you even see the future of EAS? Does the state intend to allocate more money to the EAS or to shut down their activities at all? What's the state got to do with EAS?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U77	You are probably aware that the use of funds from the European Union's common budget is of a certain seasonal nature. When the new budget period comes into effect, not a lot of investments will be made. At the end of the budget period, investment is very rapid, with a high intensity of work. In the very last phase, the burden of reviewing projects in EAS is decreasing strongly, as investment decisions have already been taken. The total amount of actions implemented under the EAS Structural Funds is EUR 777 million. Of this amount, almost EUR 700 million have been committed and almost EUR 460 million have been paid out. We have the right few of the total resources not covered by the projects. And if everything, the whole volume, is covered by projects, then, of course, the burden on those people whose work so far consisted in reviewing the projects will fall away.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U78	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Our Question Time is over. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for asking questions. Thank you, Prime Minister and Ministers, for answering the questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U79	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the sixth working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. Let's start with my colleague, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U80	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I hereby introduce you to the draft Act amending the State Family Benefits Act, which was initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. In fact, parents' interviews have highlighted the problem of the period between the day when parental benefit ends and the time when they are actually ready to take their children to kindergarten. This period lasts a year and a half because no parent wants to bang his child. It is quite embarrassing to admit that child care fees have not increased since 2000. Parental benefit has come in the meantime, but as you all know, it ends at the latest at the age of one and a half. The child care fee would fill this gap and our proposal is to increase the child care fee from EUR 38 to EUR 191. The calculation procedure is set out in the explanatory memorandum. The reason for our proposal is precisely that it would give the parent the opportunity to stay home with the child until the child reaches the age of three, or to find another solution for not eating a child with a well-known friend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U81	Thank you. Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U82	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is my great honour to give a draft on behalf of 63 members of the Riigikogu, who represent all four groups of the Riigikogu and the League of Democrats of the Riigikogu, to the Riigikogu's statement on 'Estonian agriculture and the reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy'. With this statement, we want to call on the countries of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission to put in place a system of direct payments for the CAP which would ensure a level playing field for all farmers in the European Union; to move to a new methodology for calculating direct payments in the next financial period of the European Union, which would avoid major differences between the highest and lowest levels of direct payments in the European Union and which would take account of economic and environmental criteria; to continue to finance both direct payments and rural development measures in such a way as to ensure sustainable development of agriculture and rural areas; to take a flexible approach, taking into account the specificities of the Member States, as a condition for additional support for the implementation of environmentally sound agricultural practices, to the proposed 7% ecological focus area payment; to give Member States implementing the single area payment system the possibility to include this land suitable for agricultural production which was not in good agricultural order as of 30 June 2003 and for which it has not yet been possible to apply for a single area payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U83	Thank you. Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs initiates a draft law amending the law on political parties. In the Riigikogu, a member of the Constitutional Committee, Kajar Lember, is a representative of the Constitutional Committee. This draft seeks to organise the technical rules for the reporting of party funding, which form the basis for the submission of uniform and clear reports by political parties. The amendments align, inter alia, the accounting terms and principles used in the Political Party Finance Act with the general financial accounting terminology and principles and provide a common online reporting format. The draft removes the technical shortcomings that existed so far and reduces the administrative burden of reporting by both the political party monitoring committee and political parties, electoral federations and individual candidates through the harmonisation of reports and the release into the online environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U85	Thank you very much. Now, please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of an auditor to check the activities of the National Audit Office in 2012. The Finance Committee initiated the draft on the basis of § 5 of the National Audit Office Act, according to which the auditor is appointed by the Riigikogu on a proposal from the Monetary Committee to verify the activities of the National Audit Office for the financial year. In this context, I would add that in 1995, 1996 and 1998-2004 the economic activities of the National Audit Office have been controlled by AS PricewaterhouseCoopers, 2005. The economic activities of the year 2009 were controlled by AS Deloitte Audit Estonia and 2009-2011. Indrek Alliksaar, an auditor of KPMG Baltics. KPMG Baltics is a member of KPMG's largest audit and consulting company chain in the world, and KPMG Baltics' office was founded in 1992. The company has audited and advised many large companies in Estonia, as well as carried out audits in the public sector. The Finance Committee also proposes to appoint an auditor of KPMG Baltics AS, Indrek Alliksaar, to supervise the economic activities of the 2012 National Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U87	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted four draft laws and if they comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now pass on the announcements. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Land Tax Act and Income Tax Act, initiated on 22 October, commission of the Finance Committee; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety and Ports Act, initiated on 22 October, the Committee on Economic Affairs; thirdly, the Estonian Central Party Group. a draft law on the amendment of the State Assets Act, initiated on 22 October, by the Committee on Economic Affairs; fourthly, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. A draft of the Riigikogu's decision of 23 October on the establishment of a "Professional Committee of the Riigikogu for the Developments of Self-governing Administrative Organisation," the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Ladies and gentlemen, can I have your attention now? I'll specify the agenda. Today's sixth item was to be the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act § 222 of the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet, Inara Luigas and Rainer Vakra, but the rapporteur from the initiators cannot present the draft here today. It is therefore not possible to discuss this item today and it will be postponed to the next week of the sitting. On today's 11th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi will make a presentation on behalf of the Government of the Republic. On today's 12th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, Annely Akkermann, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, will make a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U88	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday we were in the middle of a debate with Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi on questions. Now, please, Mr. Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi, you are back in the chair! Let's keep asking questions. Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U89	Minister, thank you very much. When I studied earlier national budgets, I noticed that before the state budget received money from one of your coalition partners each year, one of the organisations closely associated with your coalition partner, called the Estonian Owners' Confederation. In 2008-2010, the same association of owners received a total of EEK 6.4 million. In the draft budget for next year, I will no longer see a provision for this organisation. Is it that money isn't just being allocated to them now, or is it so hidden that it can't be seen again?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U90	If he's hiding, he's hiding from me. But I must admit that we have worked hard to ensure that the budget lines are evener so that individual organisations, including non-profit organisations, are not there. So I can't rule out that funding is actually provided for. It should be checked. I have not dealt with this issue in isolation. But yes, the picture of the budget has become more comprehensive and evener than in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U91	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U92	Good minister! My question concerns the revenue side of the budget. I see that on the income side there is quite a reduction in corporate tax. Do you expect companies to take out about 24 million less revenue than this year? There's a 9.3% reduction. This is the second most important after external support in terms of revenue losses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U93	First of all, I'm working on the projections, but not the way I'm starting to figure out some numbers by individual tax types. But dividend income is something worth conservatively planning. As far as next year is concerned, this year we will receive an annual dividend with an annual growth rate of 8.3%, and next year we will receive a year of a two-percent growth rate. It is only natural that this income should be taken into account as lower, but at the same time the behaviour of the dividend takers is not always accurately predictable. This is a separate decision, which may depend on the size of the profits, new investment ideas, also on the difficulties somewhere else. The number of large dividend payers is not so high that such fluctuations are unusual.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U94	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U95	Good minister! I have nothing to ask about the content of the budget; it is, in my opinion, a very good budget for the current circumstances. However, I do have a question of budget setting. As a member of the Economic Commission, I am particularly interested in the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but it is quite difficult to find the amounts and budget lines. If you look at the budget explanatory memorandum, I get some data on page 26, next reference is page 134, then p. 220 is Annex 1, p. 227 is Annex 2 and somewhere at the end, p. 242 is the following numbers. It's awfully difficult to watch it. Would it be possible for the amounts allocated to one ministry to be included in one package, in one chapter?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U96	First of all, thank you for your positive assessment of the budget. I was very shocked when I heard from the news yesterday that the budget was really bad and there was nothing more than a drum roll. If anyone else has heard the drum roll in this hall, you might as well say it separately. Or was it propaganda? There has been no particular propaganda in this debate, in my opinion, either by the mouth of the questioners. But the picture of the budget is a separate subject that would require disparage. I guess I'll just have to get used to it, too. There are logics here, and there is logic here, that we have established certain principles, but these principles have caused a few ministries a great deal of concern. For example, I may be wrong about the fact now, but this impression of some kind of organization, according to the logic of the budget, suddenly fell under the lines of the Ministry of Finance. It caused some political tension. I would really like to talk about this once, but right now I am saying that it has never been easy to read the budget. It has always been an incredibly complex document and it has always been discussed whether it is transparent or non-transparent. In itself, it would be funny to talk about a book with a few hundred pages and more, which should be transparent. In the same way, you might want to analyze the phone book, see if it's clear. It's a boring document. It's very factual and completely structured according to its own rules. One of the most experienced critics tells us that he always comes from a 1998 picture that he hasn't learned anything, and that makes his life particularly difficult. But I guess we'll never discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U97	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U98	Minister, thank you very much. In recent times, the coalition parties have repeatedly stressed and highlighted that child subsidies will increase next year. When I look at this amount in the budget, do I understand correctly that there is enough money for every tenth child, that is to say nine children out of ten, simplified?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U99	I don't think you'd get it right now, or at least show it. I've already seen your style here. But for a number of children, you might want to ask the Minister of Social Affairs. I don't have any statistics. It is clear that we are trying to increase the need base, to give more to the poorer and bigger families. But to include one in ten children, I'd rather not believe it. But I'll check it out. This is not exactly my bill, it is also the draft submitted by the Riigikogu. I'm still operating on general numbers. I operate the budget with figures, not with specific professional laws that are not yet familiar to me in the details and which I have not drawn up myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U100	Please, Mr. Taavi in the garment!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U101	First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Mr Vakra. After all, members of the Riigikogu have also had access to the child benefit reform programme. It is a draft pending before the Riigikogu and states that about one fifth of children who need it most will double the child benefit in two years and all third children will double the child benefit. It's really inappropriate to talk about a tenth. But my question concerns the subject of passion in this hall yesterday. Inquiry, there was a great deal of talk about a specific tax fraud scheme that works on the eastern border. I am interested in the activities of the Ministry of Finance in general. Do you have any new initiatives that would increase revenue for the next or the next year's budget by improving tax treatment and reducing tax fraud?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U102	That is what we are wondering about in any case, and we have achieved some results. A very tangible victory has been in the field of fuel, but fraudsters are resourceful. Some of them are behind bars, but not all are, and more are born. It is one thing to change the law, the other to adopt a tougher approach, which has also given rise to numerous counter-reactions among those in this Chamber. How can I do that?? People want to buy cheap vodka and smoke, and how can they be harassed?! And besides, they're poor. We are working to ensure that people can still make a profit from real work, that tax-avoiders do not take their bread off the table and that jobs are also created in border regions. The major changes that would like to be made are, for example, the registration of employees from the first day. I've already heard skeptical opinions from an expert that this is going to get away with it, but I hope he's wrong. I would like to see more e-invoicing of turnover in the economy, so that we introduce e-invoicing in the economy. We are still talking about tens of millions of euros of revenue lost in the form of VAT. Once again, be your own pack, your own practical objections that arise during this process. But when it comes to the additional revenue from the state budget that Eiki Nestor asked about here yesterday, one is, of course, economic growth, which must increase the country's chances in proportion to the growth in general well-being and not the other way round, and the other is the additional revenue from fraudsters ♪ fraudsters holding a huge amount of public money and it must be combated. However, it is not so simple that we are merely promising here that we will put an end to tax crime. But we'll try!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U103	Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U104	Good minister! I have this budgetary question. Once again, full compliance with the Law on salaries of senior civil servants is postponed. It's probably just as well, but the other way around, you might ask how long you can. Perhaps the Riigikogu should be careful to do something about this law, so that there is no such interscision between the actual situation and what is stated in the law. It'll make everyone careful.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U105	They don't ask me that in my home, they get used to it in my home. I have cut my income since 2008 and I am proud to be at the 2006 level. I don't think I can control other people's budgets if I don't keep mine. But these proportions have really gotten a little weird. And there's some kind of pride in the profession that's gonna resist it for how long you're gonna see that this profession isn't valued. Okay, my person is a lousy one, but maybe the next minister deserves a little higher pay. It's a delicate subject. I do not think that the proportions between the agencies included in the law are very daunting, perhaps too much is regulated. I don't have this scale right in front of my eyes, but they still go to the highest officials. It's up to the Riigikogu to decide. Clearly, there are places where you can serve more proudly, and one of the most proudly serving associations has decided not to work, at least in part. At the same time, it enables them to be better answered than to keep their wages in check.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U106	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U107	Good minister! To balance what you hear from the window from time to time, I ask you this. The Minister of Finance is a professional pessimist and the Minister of Finance receives money for pessimism. Therefore, please say: has this revenue side been calculated with sufficient caution? Because when I hear from there that we have to share and share there, and so on, sometimes I think, maybe we don't have to collect that much taxes at all. I mean, is it still our precaution because it's justified itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U108	I think that caution in public finances is, in any case, a matter of life. I have been saying this since I was here with you in the Riigikogu in the first time in the 1990s. I don't understand those who say the Ministry of Finance is forecasting down. First of all, he predicts sometimes too much, but second, the cost of this mistake, if you overestimate, is enormously high. Of course, I would add that I am not the immediate forecaster, but the attitude that works in my administration is, to some extent, the choice that we are not going to dream. I know countries where people would rather dream. If it seems that two months of tax money will accumulate more, then the tax rate will be reduced. I think these choices are completely wrong. Yes, this budget is forecast in the lower half of the forecasters. I think I know a prognosis that was more pessimistic, but I'm not sure it was for next year. I have to check it out, I haven't done it in a couple of months. The prognosis is cautious. Which doesn't mean no one's coming back and saying, "See, this entrepreneur said he's gonna have to start concentrating, so the sky is black clouds. " It's not like that! We are still looking at a wide picture, rather than simply considering the circumstances of personal acquaintances.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U109	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U110	Good minister! My second question also concerns the revenue side of the budget. If anyone calls for more money, then it's doctors, teachers or rescuers, then the government says there's no money. Money can come out of revenue. At the same time, the government has occasionally reduced personal income tax by a percentage and a few. Has it been mentioned that we could increase that percentage? There should actually be a pretty large amount of money and then it could also be shared. What do you say to that, maybe you could raise your tax to 22%? Has this been discussed in the government or in your ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U111	We are still discussing sensible proposals. Once again, serious experts are all in agreement: the worst taxes are corporate income tax, because capital is very mobile and because it is business that creates jobs and, secondly, labour taxes. Raising them is the last thing we're going to do. If we are talking about a step-by-step increase so that we can start taxing qualified workers higher than the uneducated, it is particularly cynical. The tax-free minimum is a matter of course. If there is room here, we would certainly not be dealing with reducing it in the future in order to get more money, but with raising this border. Labour taxes must be contained. You had something exciting in that introduction, too, but all right, let it go.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U112	Please, Mr Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U113	Minister, thank you very much. You have just talked so interestingly about how different officials treat their salary numbers differently. I was asked this question: has the budgetary process discussed the need to equalise the salaries of people doing the same work in different institutions? The point is, for example, that if the most talented people from the university go somewhere else from Estonia, we are used to it so that we train them to go elsewhere. But if, for example, information specialists from the Ministry of Education and Research go to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications because they pay much better for the same job, I don't think that's normal. Has such a problem been discussed in the budgetary process, or is it not a serious problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U114	We do not really deal one by one with the level of salaries of agencies in the budgets of ministries and other bodies. Of course, the lines and examples involved go through, and you brought one. But we have discussed the wage reform of civil servants. Now I wonder what stage it is. However, in principle, certain pay ranges will be introduced for public officials in the future. The Civil Service Act was passed in the Riigikogu, so you are already familiar with it. It has been harmonised that, for example, a certain level of lawyer has such a pay range and two levels above that. Here we are thinking of competitiveness, but we are still trying to achieve a level playing field between ministries' salaries. At the same time, a lawyer is a universal office, but the salary of an official in one field cannot be too high in the level of his overall salary. For example, the officials of the Ministry of Culture immediately fall into the teeth of others when it turns out that they are paid much more than cultural workers. Although they should be the choir that can analyse the wider, political field, not just understand culture and I don't know, maybe even create it. And still, the strongest competition in the market is for lawyers and finance people, and putting them in exactly the same frame would be quite painful, so we would lose our best. And we lose from time to time, there's nothing special about it. Of course, the public sector does not just pursue the objective of harmonisation; it still has to bear in mind the need to cope with its workforce. No ministry must suffer from a serious shortage of labour and therefore leave the reforms dragging.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U115	Please, Mr Gräzin, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U116	Good friend! Three hours ago, our party discussed one party's internal affairs, which was not very important. Journalists couldn't get through the door. There was a cameraman who was forced to film through the window because there was no room inside. We are now discussing the budget of the Republic of Estonia, but I do not see any journalists here. Do you think the Ministry of Finance can communicate anything to society about budget issues if nobody listens to the budget debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U117	They must be frozen in front of the screens and on the speakers and listen to what was asked and what I'm trying to answer. At least I hope so. And I hope that people will read all the articles carefully afterwards. But it's a much more interesting one-person story, and in that sense, everything's nice. Of course, we did not discuss matters within the political party today, which is clearly an extra-party phenomenon that we discussed today. That is also why we failed to expel anyone from the party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U118	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U119	Good minister! I'd like to come back to an interesting subject that came up in the round of your questions and answers. It's teachers' salaries. I, too, have received quite a number of questions from the heads of school who have sent the question by e-mail that if, next year, local authorities are to have extra resources to pay just under 5% of their salary, how will this 11% turn out? Yesterday, you spoke about the verbatim report, and I looked up a number of proposals in detail, based on the fact that the money could be transferred. This means that the cost of education by the local government actually does not change the sum of the sum of the amounts to be paid by the local government by more than 5%. The rest is the amount of education that needs to be increased, for example, as a class manager's fee. How much does next year's teachers' pay really go up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U120	I would abstain from a percentage that is clearly under the authority of a minister. He's the one who's finally operating on them. I am not familiar with the details, and I do not always agree with what some Minister of Speciality thinks. But he's responsible for the numbers he cut out. I don't consciously operate with that percentage. However, I can say that this is only a rule, not an exception. If we want to raise wages so that we do not scoop from somewhere, I do not know, from Finland or from the month to the month, we will look at our costs first, what can be done more effectively in the system. The taxpayer does not rush to give us 9% or 11% more money, as I have seen in the case of teachers. No, I don't! Why would he tend to, and why would he be able to? He doesn't want to. He needs the money himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U121	Please, Mr Mailis Reps, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U122	Good minister! If you look at the proposal where you expect to find the remaining 5% or 6% to raise teachers' salaries, one source is the class manager's fee, which is now the same person you say he needs the money for himself. It's just renamed. So, in reality, teachers' pay doesn't go up on the payroll. But yesterday you said so kindly, I quote: 'I think we can also give the people of your group some hints where there could be room for manoeuvre, if the Riigikogu thinks otherwise about the cost of the budget than the government. ' Maybe you'd be so kind as to tell me where we could find the remaining 5% of the teachers' salary to really raise it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U123	I didn't mean you're gonna throw a drop of water on the heater. Thousands and thousands of teachers would still need a very large and systemic solution to raise wages, not a small room for manoeuvre. And that's what the Minister of Education has been working for. He has also assumed responsibility in his public speeches, and I think it is a professional person who does not make much mistakes. I know one of the ways to talk about teachers' pay is to talk about teachers' minimum wage. After all, it can simply be set as four, and it can also be respected. This is one of the cost orientations that the Minister of Speciality can take into account. The minimum wage is, in itself, a bizarre reference, but on the other hand, it is also the case that if we are used to an older worker being paid more than younger at all times, it does not exactly favour the exchange of blood. The Minister must think a little bit that this minimum wage is something that changes the proportions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U124	Please, Mr Dress, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U125	Good minister! I have tried very closely to follow the points of the opposition on this budget, perhaps there is something to be pointed out in order to improve the budget. The most serious criticism I have heard is that this is an election budget for the year, which in other words means that, according to the opposition, the budget is likely to meet the expectations of the people. With this criticism, it is difficult to do anything other than congratulate you as a minister and the whole government. But there is probably something that could be changed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. For example, the salary of senior civil servants is one subject which, I understand, could be considered. Ministers and judges have been unfairly treated. Are there any other subjects left on the government's mind? Would there be substantive proposals that the Committee on Monetary Affairs could discuss?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U126	I wouldn't scream anything out of this remote too soon. I would like sensible and coordinated decisions to be made, I would not be hasty with proposals. But saying that it is a pre-election budget is not a compliment, it is certainly not in finance. It is not in vain that the Constitution prohibits referendums in certain areas. History has proven that if money is distributed according to expectations and emotions, chaos will result. People's expectations are always higher than those of the state. So it was very insulting when I was told that. I didn't even remember there was going to be an election. They're coming all the time, and I couldn't tell at all that it was propaganda and drum roll. In this hall, I don't think anyone was impressed that anyone here was making any propaganda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U127	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I call on the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Sester, to present this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby give you an overview of the draft State Budget Act 2013, which bears the number 278, in particular the procedure for its first reading in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Finance launched the 2013 draft state budget procedure this time with a hearing of sectoral ministers to get a detailed overview of the budgets, changes and problems in all areas of government. On 11 October, Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher took part, on 15 October, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder, on 16 October, Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler, and on 22 October, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Between the first and second readings, the Commission also intends to meet with the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Defence. In the course of the procedure, representatives of the Ministry of Finance at the meetings of the Commission have provided an overview of the economic situation and fiscal forecasts, including the current state of the state reserves and cash flows. On 18 October, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi attended the Commission meeting, who presented the objectives and priorities of the state budget in line with budgetary policy and the development of revenue and expenditure for the 2013 state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, here I will give you a brief overview of the issues and questions that came up with the various ministers in the Commission. First of all, Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Minister of Foreign Affairs gave an overview of his field and emphasised that the strengthening and expansion of the Estonian network of foreign representations will continue. The trend is an increase in the influence of Asia: the opening of a new embassy in New Delhi and the strengthening of the Estonian embassy in Beijing and, consequently, the additional manning of the Indian and Chinese embassy. A special mention was made of the number of employees, which is 650 in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, half of them working abroad and the turnover of staff is relatively low. In addition, the Minister of Foreign Affairs announced that the topic that the Riigikogu will deal with in the coming days or weeks is the state fees for consular services. The bill bears the number 284 and the state fees should increase, as operating in foreign offices is clearly more expensive than in Estonia. Now the Minister of the Interior's key words from the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Minister of the Interior stressed the importance of wage increases and the organisation of the system. 4.4% is a general wage increase, and internal structural restructuring is also under way. There is a reform of the wage system at the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board. The aim is to eliminate the illogical differences between the salaries of police, border guards and rescue personnel. The Home Secretary was asked about the speed cams. Indeed, the budget shows that fines are expected to be lower in 2013 than this year. According to the Minister of the Interior, and probably so, it can be considered as a positive effect. The purpose of speed cameras has been to develop the right attitudes, and the sums received have been decreasing over the years. There will also be more cameras: new cameras will be placed, for example, on the Narva highway and on several intersections. The Minister of the Interior also said that an e-field procedure will be launched in the near future, which means that the work of police officers will be accelerated. An electronic connection to databases will be established and it can be assumed that there will also be possible grounds for pre-filled statements, etc. Strengthening life-saving capabilities will continue. Next year the construction of new buildings for rescue commandos will be started in Annelinna in Tartu and Lasnamäe in Tallinn. There was a special mention in the Commission of how to attack police officers. The Minister of the Interior stated that it certainly needs to be taken more rigorously and that this is where we are working. To close the issue of the Ministry of the Interior so much that next year major preparations will be made for the transition to one of the emergency numbers 112, which should enter into force at the end of 2014. This includes both the start of construction of the emergency centre Tallinn and Tartu building and investment in a single emergency call system. The Minister of Education and Science gave the following overview. Firstly, there will be needs-based learning grants, which the Minister of Finance spoke about yesterday during his presentation. The amount is 135 euros per student. Next, the rise in the salaries of the faculty, which was also discussed yesterday as today, and of which the Minister of the Sector himself is indeed offering up to 11% without structural reforms. At least that's his vision. The Commission considered the organisation and modernisation of the school network separately. The Minister of Education emphasised that the cost structure in Estonia is unreasonable at the moment. Teachers' salaries account for almost 40% of the total money available in this sector, compared with 60% in other countries. This shows that there is a reason to review your cost categories. The Minister also spoke about investments. A public investment programme is planned to be targeted so as to create a reasonable school network over 20 to 30 years. Estonia, like all other European countries, is preparing to set and adopt the priorities for the new budget period from 2014 to 2020 at a later stage. This programme could and should be one of our contributions to this pan-European programme. There was talk about training children with special needs. The Minister said that this concept had been changed and a clearer basis for the division of tasks between local authorities and the state was created. It was specifically noted that R &amp; D expenditure would increase by EUR 6 million next year to EUR 166.1 million. Growth is 3.66%. Now on the keywords of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications in the Commission. Members of the Commission were interested in addressing the recent major entrepreneurs. The Minister said that the analyses have been carried out and that it is important to ensure the ability to break the ice. There are several options: whether entrepreneurs themselves break the ice, as is the case in Latvia and Lithuania, or whether it is done in solidarity, as is the case in Finland and Sweden. These were also the charges for waterways, differentiated according to regularity. The Minister considered that the effect of the charges on tourism would remain the same, but that the fees charged to large tankers and other merchant vessels would increase considerably. It was a question of channelling the money from the sale of CO2 quotas and of how much CO2 quotas will be sold next year. The Minister stated that the prices of CO2 quotas have fallen and that sales are difficult to predict. However, it is foreseen that part of the quota sales money coming into the budget will be channelled into the insulation programme for apartment buildings. This process is, in substance, a continuation of the process that started last year and continued this year. The possible capital injection of Eesti Energia through the increase in share capital was also discussed. The Minister confirmed that this has also been accepted as State aid in the European Union, the Electricity Market Act provides for support for electricity capacity and EU directives allow this. There was also talk of ownership gains. In this Chamber, too, yesterday and today, there was a question of what kind of owner's income, with what degree of precision. It is clear that this clarification will eventually come when the economic results are known, and much will also depend on the results of which environment the state-owned enterprises are working in. Certainly higher dividend income is expected from Eesti Energia and the Port of Tallinn. One issue was that more money will be allocated to the storage of local roads in 2013. The Minister stated that this amount was EUR 29,2 million. To make it clearer what it means in real life, let it be mentioned that it is nearly 60% more than this year, which is a significant increase. The cash gain is 11.1 million euros. And one of the keywords of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications was that next year additional financial resources of 9.6 million will be allocated to the acquisition of vessels to connect with the smaller islands. These islands are Ruhnu, Abbruka, Prangli, Vormsi and Kihnu. The main topics of the Minister for Agriculture were direct payments. He said that farmers would be guaranteed a smooth transition to the new system of direct payments. In order to maintain the level of support, €24.3 million has been earmarked for the payment of transitional public support, the so-called top-ups, in 2013. The Minister also pointed out problematic topics. According to him, from the perspective of the Ministry of Agriculture, investment, especially in IT, is a problematic issue. This was about the transition to a new budget period, particularly with regard to the PRIA. The Minister of Agriculture also pointed out laboratory problems. It is a duty to carry out studies and analyses, and today all of this has to be ordered from outside and is relatively costly. Finally, the Minister for Agriculture confirmed that in 2013 all support from the rural development plan and the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) will be paid out to the extent that the sector is able to invest and that the state will ensure its co-financing of EUR 23.6 million. The Minister for Regional Affairs gave us such an overview in the Commission. The members of the Commission asked him about the state of contact and negotiations with local authorities. The regional minister said that the protocol to the negotiations with local authorities was attached to the explanatory memorandum to the budget for the following year and that everyone would be able to see it. He stated that not every time the negotiations were signed on both sides. This time, it has been due to the unresolved issue of education support and the question of restoring the income base of local governments. The share of income tax allocated to local governments is recorded in the state budget. As this is a transferable tax, basically nothing changes. There was also an interest in why the state was modest in supporting religious communities. The Minister stated that the investments have been made within the framework of the Holiday Halls programme and that the operating grants have also been awarded through the Estonian Council of Churches. There have been and will certainly be such grants in the future, but the needs are, of course, greater than the opportunities. The Minister of Finance gave a general overview of the financial situation and Estonia's progress, bearing in mind the budgetary context. He said that the budget was based on various forecasts and that the summer growth forecast was 3%. There was an interest in why local governments and the unemployment fund's money is included in the budget. The Minister replied that the aim is transparency, an overview of public money, as well as harmonisation of the social security component is already included in the budget, be it the income tax share of local governments. Interested in RMK: in what situation he is in and why he should be granted a loan by the Ministry of Finance if necessary. The Minister explained that RMK, as a profit-making state agency, cannot raise foreign funds, it cannot borrow from elsewhere and the State itself cannot lend to it, but the State may grant subsidies from the state budget if necessary. This is also the amount to be recovered. This money is needed for investments, such as the maintenance and construction of forest roads. There was also an interest in a financing transaction, with which Eesti Energia receives about 200 million euros. According to the Minister's explanation, Eesti Energia builds and needs its capital to raise more money mainly on the market. This has a strong impact on his balance sheet. The Minister of Justice stated in the Commission that the aim is to reduce the duration of the proceedings to 100 days, with an additional EUR 2.5 million being allocated to the courts to create a high-quality support structure. Advocates-General shall enter the service at the courts. This is a major structural change. Legal aid shall be granted with an increase of 30% in the following year, amounting to EUR 110000. It is about giving people free legal aid so that they can better protect their rights. It was specifically noted that, at the initiative of the Minister for Justice, an accounting environment was created for small and start-ups, with the aim of simplifying and increasing the number of businesses. The Minister of Culture announced that it would take 2.5 million to raise the salaries of cultural workers by 4,4%, and that there would also be internal restructuring, which would provide an opportunity to raise wages by nearly 5% in total. First of all, in the field of culture, wages for people with lower pay are paid by museum staff, the technical staff of theatres and orchestras. In terms of investment, the Minister of Culture was generally optimistic. Estonia's picture is good and European Union funds have contributed greatly to this. Rather, the later maintenance of buildings is problematic. The Minister of Culture specifically stressed in the Committee on Finance that the puppet theatre needs investment. The minister described the situation of the puppet theatre so far and the problems that the theatre is facing today. They are related to the construction of the main hall. The Commission communicated information and corrections to members of the Riigikogu concerning technical errors in the 2013 state budget explanatory memorandum. The document is attached as an annex to the explanatory memorandum to the website and also available on paper. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 23 October and the first reading to be completed by 7 votes to 1; there were no abstentions; and to set the deadline for amendments on 1 November at 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U129	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U130	Dear waitress, As we know, the Minister for Regional Affairs has once again begun the attempt to establish a house of order in our administration system and has put forward various proposals for administrative reform. Does he have any special funds in the state budget for this? Are there any incentives for local authorities to join or are they not there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U131	Thank you. Eiki Nestor, do you have a procedural question or would you like a reply? A microphone for Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U132	Since my name was mentioned at the speaker's desk, I would like to say that a national delegation who wishes to make such an amendment cannot prohibit it, but the law prohibits us from adopting such a state budget. Those are two different things. The law does not prohibit the MP from making any amendment, but the law does prohibit the Riigikogu from adopting laws that do not comply with the basic law of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U133	I thank you for this observation. Let's keep going. Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U134	I have a little more experience sitting in the Riigikogu than Aivar Sõerdil, but I have not been a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But I have a theoretical question. If the Committee on Monetary Affairs considers that the Ministry of Finance has made an unreasonable forecast of the revenue gap, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs re-evaluates it and theoretically increases the state budget by, for example, 100 million, is there a new basis for proposing amendments, or is the control number proposed by the Ministry of Finance, such as the Amen Church?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U135	Since I have had the opportunity to speak again, I will do what the previous speaker has just said. I don't name it. He said the right thing. The truth is, if I am not fooled by memory, last year was an example of an amendment that was tabled, the source of which did not meet the procedural criteria. Taking the proposal into account would have increased the budget deficit and the Commission raised the question of what to do next. Are we breaking the law if we are dealing with a specific amendment, or not? But really, it is true that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his thoughts and actions, he can submit any amendment and anything. The question is whether this can be accepted later or not. However, I come back to the question of Tarmo Leinatamme. In itself, it is true that the draft, which comes to the Riigikogu, is like an amen in church. Let us not forget that the Ministry of Finance, as a representative of the Government of the Republic, is not going anywhere in the budgetary process; the procedure is working in close cooperation. If, for some reason, it is found that too poor revenue forecasts have been made, there must be very clear reasons why someone believes that there are under-forecasts. Let us not forget that we are currently relying on summer economic forecasts, but we are essentially adopting the budget in December. Has it really become apparent in these three or four months that specialists have missed so much? I don't remember any major changes in scale. However, it may happen that the next year, when a real financial year has arrived and there are clear shifts in either a negative or a positive direction, an additional budget, either negative or positive, will be drawn up. It is appropriate to state the clear position of the current coalition and government here. If there were to be a positive development, which we have also seen this year, when the receipts have been higher than forecast, I noticed that a second supplementary budget was adopted in Tallinn a few days ago, then the state is of the opinion that, in the event of a positive development, it would rather not come out with a new additional budget, but that the money would be transferred to reserves or that it would pay back loans, or that it would create a basis on which the Estonian state would be more confident to face possible crises in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U136	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we move around this Riigikogu house, we have heard in the costaars that the party of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance is a very eager student of motivational training and learn how to talk together and how to throw away the deviants of the herd spirit. But it could have been accepted from this training that only when the target is in front of the eye and the eyes are open will there be a real chance to get hit. The government currently lacks a clear target of where they are going and where they want to go. Auditor General Mihkel Oviir stated in the Annual Review of the National Audit Office that development plans do not play any role in the management of the state and the state budget is drawn up using a mathematical formula, not by considering objectives and based on substantive analysis. This is a very harsh assessment of the government's work, but unfortunately I have to agree with the Auditor General. From the draft budget, the fact that the only thing that matters to the government is how the figures look in the Excel table, not what the state budget will bring to the people of Estonia next year, which will result in the cost of living and economic development. The Reform Party received its mandate with the promise to bring Estonia among the five richest countries in Europe. The effort to keep this promise has been abandoned. This budget will have a dampening effect on economic growth; this budget will not increase the real income of households; this budget will mean Estonia remaining in the euro zone with the fastest price increase, where people are still the poorest. The Centre Party has repeatedly set Estonia an example of the Nordic countries to which our own people go the most to work. What is it about countries that we do not have? In general terms, public services are better in these countries. In the Nordic countries, people do not have to rely on volunteers in the event of a fire or use private clinics to receive medical care, as these services have been guaranteed by the state. In Estonia, however, these services are provided by certain people of free will and, essentially, by a hobby, because the remuneration paid by the state to teachers, police officers, rescuers, border guards and nurses requires that this work is done out of a great sense of mission. Unfortunately, the state can offer public services just as much as tax revenue is collected from people. The current government simply prefers not to collect certain taxes and to deny that there is no money. If the quality of services continues to deteriorate, we will soon have difficulties in keeping the seven-digit population, as people leave Estonia. Everyone of the deceased's working age, however, means less tax revenue for the state and an increasing burden on the social system. Doctors' strike, teachers' cheating on wage increases, rising home costs and people's fatigue from lasting cuts and rising taxes should at last give a reason to abandon the dogmas that hinder our economic growth. Coalition politicians, however, use selective hearing when it comes to tax policy: what they like, what they listen to, all other suggestions are missed. It is forgotten that already in 2009, the IMF recommended increasing the progressiveness of the personal income tax system in Estonia, and the European Commission and the OECD have done the same in different wordings. Instead of increasing progression, the income tax rate will be reduced in 2015, and it will once again be a gift to the wealthiest, as 1% of the tax reduction will be won by individuals with higher incomes much more than by those with lower incomes. The building of the house must begin with the foundation. However, the current government is trying to put the roof on the building first, and then it will see if the building can fit under the roof at all, or if there is enough material for the construction of the system. It is easy, of course, to say that you have the opportunity to propose changes to the state budget. Indeed, it is the opposition's only chance to save the Estonian state, but the state budget law is getting shorter and shorter every year, and the line-writing is increasingly seen less and less frequently. If, last year, at least the largest state-owned companies from which dividends are to be taken were mentioned, the explanatory memorandum to the draft State Budget Act for the coming year contains only one sentence concerning the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications: 'The forecast shows that the profits of the companies in 2012 will increase compared to 2011 and, in this respect, dividend income will increase by 2.8 million euros or 2.25% next year. ' That's the end of it. The Minister of Finance also missed a specific question yesterday. Why specific information is being withheld is very difficult to say. One way that information is withheld is perhaps the fear that the government's house of cards will simply collapse if it is disclosed. A good example is the increase in the salaries of teachers promised by the Minister of Education and Research. Minister of Education Aaviksoo has promised that the 2013 state budget will raise teachers' salaries by 11%. However, the 11% increase allowed should mean an additional EUR 15.7 million to raise teachers' salaries. Unfortunately, the truth behind this beautiful promise is that the additional money to increase education support is just EUR 7.5 million and the remaining EUR 8.2 million must be taken from the redistribution of internal resources of education support, such as the amounts earmarked for further training, investment grants and the efforts to optimise the school network. Figuratively speaking, this is a message to local governments and school leaders that for a sum of money, both the schoolhouse needs to be repaired and the teachers have to raise their wages. However, we know that the school manager can use one euro only once, not twice. In order to be able to repair schools and raise teachers' salaries, the government should give two euros instead of one euro. Increasing the responsibility of school directors and local authorities in shaping teachers' salaries will enable the government to pass the blame on to those who are not responsible for this to the school leaders and the municipal parents in the next year, if wage increases are not allowed. The Centre Party Group will do everything in its power to make this state budget even more human-friendly. The Estonian state is designed to make it a good place for the people to live here. Unfortunately, the government is chasing statistical numbers, not people's welfare. Last year I wished that I would do this in the Riigikogu for a long time so that the entire people of Estonia would benefit from this budget. It didn't work! But I believe that a drop of water can eventually pierce a hole in a stone, and I will try again this year. Let's do this! Dear coalition ambassadors, go to rural areas during a week without a hearing and see what is really going on in Estonia! The well-being of the Estonian people is in our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U138	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the Estonian Reform Party for a speech chair in the Riigikogu! Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U139	When planning public sector wage growth funds, it should be taken into account that the main part should still be through structural restructuring and more efficient public sector functioning. Both social costs and wage increases are fixed budget costs, which will be transferred as a liability to the budgets of the following years. In designing these expenditures, the objective of achieving the budget surplus allowed in the coming years cannot be withdrawn in order to restore the declining reserves in the years of the crisis. I hope that the procedure for next year's budget will proceed in a balanced manner in the Riigikogu and that the amendments, which will certainly be tabled by a large number, will also be supplemented by real and operational sources of cover. I expect and hope that the opposition will have constructive proposals that can be dealt with in essence and taken into account in the forthcoming Riigikogu proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U140	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Let me start with you both to grieve and rejoice. I am very sorry that the Minister of Finance has taken criticism of the budget as an insult, as he said here today. That was certainly not the aim of the critics. We have wanted to talk about the budget, not insult the Minister of Finance. On the other hand, I am pleased that despite this criticism, I cannot be expelled from the Riigikogu. With regard to drum roll, of course, the question is not that there are no tax-free Fridays in fact, in a good case, the period will be about 10 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. on Saturday morning. But this bill has indeed been accompanied by a common talk on the topic 'No money' and, on the other hand, a strong desire to show that the money that is not there has been some reasonable effort to share. Yesterday, the Minister was deliberately asked what would be the places where the opposition could come to the aid of the government with recommendations on how to increase revenue and not all the time to justify rejections by the lack of money. Minister, I don't know if the suddenness of the situation just suggested a solution that doesn't go together with the basic law on the state budget: he said he could use GDP growth. Indeed, we must not use it in the state budget procedure. You can also think of other instruments to increase revenue and which, unfortunately, cannot also be used as a source of revenue in the debate on the state budget. I recommend that all members of the Riigikogu, not just members of the Monetary Affairs Committee, who are representatives of both the power union and opposition, and in very close and pleasant association with our Tax and Customs Board, read one of yesterday's news which, in short, sounded like this. In Tallinn, the Tax Administration has already checked one construction site several times. Of the 15 workers who worked there, two had a contract of employment; of the other 13, 11 men worked for the first day and the first two months, they had no employment contracts. In companies where they work, the average salary is 140 euros per month. Who's gonna believe this? The tax administration does not believe, the Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs does not believe, but we are already discussing this issue several times. We commend the tax administration and do not understand why their ideas do not come to this Riigikogu desk through the Minister. We have taken the initiative here and we are forced to do so in the future, but there is also a partial answer to the question of where the money is. I'm gonna be naughty now. I'm gonna use government style. Indeed, maybe the minister himself has been more modest, but the happier the drum has been rattled by the pagan ambassadors of the power union. The action you are calling the reform of children's benefits will cost EUR 4 million a year. The step that we call the amendment would cost EUR 109 million a year. Even the 60000 children to whom you have promised an increase of EUR 9 per month in support next year would receive an additional EUR 38 per month if our amendment was passed. Some are talking about reform; others are talking about an amendment. These are clear numbers. Really, it also needs money, and it is not a small cost, but we will make these proposals. I believe that not only the five representatives of the power union that are currently in the Chamber, but also the rest of them at one point, will understand that there is actually a way to pay more for this. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U142	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U143	Or we could take the teacher's pay. The Riigikogu would be extremely pleased if there was an agreement signed by the Minister of Education, the local authorities, the school directors and the teachers' trade union that came before us. All of us would like to believe that the way in which 11, 15 or 20% of the salary agreed upon reaches the teacher's pocket is known. There's no such thing today, there's a lot of question marks. But I'd like to finish with the drum roll the previous speaker mentioned. Let's stop it! The rest of the world will not take it seriously if we want to teach them from this Riigikogu speaker. They behave in accordance with other principles and, by the way, the loans they have taken and the interest paid on them also bring a great deal of money to the Estonian state budget through the European Union, which we could also call a loan, which has not been drawn up in the form of a loan and which we will never have to repay. But those who have given us this money have even borrowed it. Don't push yourself into the monetary policy we're doing. Others act the other way round and give us the kind of money that is a legitimate question: but, my dear friends, what would you do if we did not belong to the European Union? Then where would you get the money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U144	Thank you. I now invite a representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union to the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U145	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft state budget for next year has come to the end. A debate is about to begin on whether the budget drawn up by the government has taken into account all important areas and their needs. We will have decisions ahead of us in which areas of life we will expect more progress next year, and in which areas we will have to expect more. There are quite a few points to be delighted with, especially considering the economic environment where Estonia will be next year. The fact that public spending will increase next year alone is a positive fact in the light of the overall cuts in public spending in Europe. Thanks to a responsible budgetary policy, unlike a large part of Europe, we can actually afford it. On the other hand, increasing spending is not an end in itself, but we need to think well about what we want to achieve with the expenditure we are spending. I am very pleased that local authorities can count on major investments in rural municipalities and urban roads next year. This is a long-term process that expresses not only the will of the coalition of the Riigikogu, but also the will of the opposition. In 2011, we agreed at the Round Table of the Support Group for Local Government and Regional Policy covering all political groups of the Riigikogu that one tenth of the amounts from excise duties on fuel to road construction must be allocated to local governments for the maintenance of roads. If this percentage was 5 last year, this year 6.5 and according to the draft state budget, the share of money allocated to municipal roads will increase to 10% next year. In cash, this represents an increase of 60%, i.e. EUR 29,3 million. This allows rural municipalities to build black-coated roads and to upgrade open street covers in county centres. Dear members of the Riigikogu, our task is to level out inequalities. The 63 supporting signatures on the draft statement handed over to the management board of the Riigikogu today show that the cross-party agreement also prevails over supporting Estonian farmers. Our farmers will also be forced to go through the EU's common agricultural policy with much less support money next year than their competitors elsewhere in Europe. We are talking about national direct aid, which is set at EUR 24.3 million in the draft budget, which should mitigate the consequences of the unequal support policy of the European Union in Estonia. I do not know what the CAP subsidies of the European Union will look like in 2014 when the new budget period will start In fact, there is no more or less at stake than the existence of agricultural production based on Estonian capital. It is no secret that Estonian farms in difficulties for various reasons have been sold to foreigners whose starting position is better here due to the benefits they pay in their home country. IRL is not against foreign investment, but we are also in favour of domestic capital. We are in favour of a level playing field for market participants in business, including agriculture. This means that if the European Union cannot guarantee equal conditions to our farmers in the market, we must do so ourselves until we can. The important signal to pensioners is that pensions are growing. This point in the draft state budget should not create conflict between the parties either. The pension will increase by an average of 5% next year and this will help pensioners to combat the recent increase in the cost of living. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that, although the current government is shackled by austerity and austerity, our budget for the coming year is still in deficit: the budget deficit is 0.7% of GDP. In fact, the Estonian state still lives beyond its means and spends more than it collects as taxes. What happens when this practice gets out of control is seen in Greece and Spain, where the government is forced to cut pensions, which fortunately has not happened in Estonia. I am pleased that next year's priorities will be to raise the salaries of teachers, rescuers, defence forces, police officers and medical staff, and that in the public sector, the payroll will increase by 4.4% in solidarity. It is also important that unemployment insurance is reduced to 3%. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U146	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U147	I am pleased to note that the new year's state budget makes it possible to allocate an additional EUR 3.6 million from next autumn, together with the implementation of free higher education reform from the budget for needs-based education grants. I believe that, in a few years, the volume of study grants in the state budget will double this year. It is important to know that we can pay a third of students a grant of EUR 135 per month from the coming autumn. In addition, the parental pension will come into effect next year, child benefits will increase, and homeowners will have good news that the tax on homeland will disappear from next year, leaving an additional EUR 13 million to homeowners. The State will also provide an additional EUR 10 million for the insulation of apartment buildings. It should not be forgotten that in a properly insulated apartment, savings from heating bills are up to 50%. Ladies and gentlemen, During heated budgetary disputes, we must bear in mind the simple fact or peasant wisdom if you wish: the increase in social spending is based on the ability of the state to balance the budget. If there's money, you can spend it. Only in this way can we gradually increase our wealth and prosperity. Have a good budget! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U148	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U149	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 278 amendments on 1 November at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the first item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, when we are discussing next year's state budget, we can still talk about uncertainty in the world economy. The debt crisis in the euro area, which directly affects us, has proved to be more persistent than previously expected, and there is no immediate solution at first. Looking at the growth forecasts of our main trading partners, all their forecasts published in the autumn for the following year proved weaker than spring forecasts. Against the background of global uncertainty, we can talk about the stable growth of the Estonian economy and the good state of public finances. According to forecasters, Estonia's economic growth should be around 3% next year. At the same time, risks from foreign markets remain high and rapid growth in external demand is not seen in the near future. Most countries in the European Union are struggling with the debt crisis and have been looking for a solution for years to improve the poor state of public finances in the context of cuts. It is not common for one country to be able to raise pensions next year, to anticipate wage increases in the public sector and to increase social benefits. The budget is intended to improve the well-being and livelihood of people, be it in response to the reproach of the previous speaker. All this is made possible first of all by the stable development of our economy, but also by the fact that, thanks to the conservative fiscal policy of previous years and the conservative fiscal policy that we are currently pursuing, we do not need to plan significant amounts in the budget for the payment of loans and interest on loans. To make it easier to understand the order of magnitude of the amounts we are talking about, let us compare an indicator that characterises the amount of Member States, on average, in the European Union, that they allocate to pay interest. This represents 3% of GDP. If it were transferred to our context, it would mean a cost of EUR 500 million in the state budget. It is obvious that such an amount cannot be obtained either by budget cuts or by means of tax increases. Rather, this amount should be borrowed from the financial markets, which in turn would imply higher interest costs in the coming years. In addition, the main part of the loan must be repaid. Unfortunately, the majority of European Union countries are currently in this situation. It follows from the above that it is worth stressing that respecting the budgetary balance is not an accounting formality or a desire to report to Brussels nice figures that our people have no use for. This same example of EUR 500 million, which we do not need to pay to creditors for interest, is one of the main sources of prosperity for those whose incomes depend on the state budget. A strong and sustainable fiscal policy is a fundamental condition for the credibility of economic policies. Investments that contribute to productivity gains and to the production of goods and services with higher added value will not come willingly to countries where risks are significant due to financial problems. In order to ensure stable economic development and an environment conducive to entrepreneurship, it is important to know that the tax burden as a whole will not increase in the following year, but will remain at the lowest level of 32.6% in recent years. In many areas, large-scale public sector investments planned in public budgets, whether for the construction of main roads or for the storage of local roads, as well as investments in water management sites and energy savings, will help to maintain and grow demand. Government investment is planned for next year at EUR 921 million, which represents a much higher figure as a percentage of GDP than in other European Union countries. And let it be noted here that the share of external support in this investment is 48%. The state budget makes it possible to implement a number of necessary reforms, one of which is the organisation of the school network and the modification of the principles of funding in the field of education. The budgetary plan will enable people's social security to be increased and security to be improved both nationally and externally. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U151	As a good colleague of the Minister for Finance has said: there is no point in going into details every time. I'm sure you have your own bill in front of you, and you've come to see it before you come to this hall. How else can we have a debate tonight? Please look for yourself! But I'm sure this generalisation level that we see in the explanatory memorandum is the level that we can go on with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U152	Please, Mr Laas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U153	Good performer! The electricity market will open in 2013 and the price of electricity will also increase, which in turn means that the state will receive more VAT. Hence the question: how high the price of electricity has the state budget been taken into account in forecasting VAT receipts? I can't imagine how this can be done, on coffee grounds, but how much the state budget has taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U154	The country will base its entire budget on macroeconomic indicators. It uses world market prices not only for electricity but also for fuel, for example. I would point out, for example, that the Ministry of the Interior, if I am not mistaken now, was said by the Minister in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that one ministry would use 3.5 million litres of fuel a year. You can imagine the cost component in this case, and in that case possible excise duties. The budget will be put together according to various forecasts made by industry professionals as well as specific specialists from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U155	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U156	Honourable waitress! I do not have the experience of a member of the Riigikogu for a long time, so I ask a technical question about the procedure. If I want to propose an amendment to the draft state budget law for next year, the basic law requires that the proposed amendment should not increase the deficit. Therefore, if I make one cost-increasing amendment, I have to show which existing source of expenditure it may have to show the source of revenue. If I propose to allocate EUR 100 million to something, for example, and I write on the other side that the source of the cover is the introduction of a tax on domestic financial transactions, I think that this is not going to work. Tell me, how is it exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U157	I'm sure it would have been wise to ask the Minister of Finance who was just here on the speaker's desk, but let's try to talk about it. True, the law basically forbids us from bringing the budget that has come into operation from the Government of the Republic into deficit or increasing the deficit. It also has its own idea why this is the case: so that we do not have the urge to become specialists and experts ourselves. It would be very easy to say that we believe that VAT will receive more than an x amount next year. Our opinion can be based on the opinion of Mr Sester or Mr Nestor, and on this we believe that we should increase wages or make any other costs or additional investments. To prevent this from happening, it is stipulated that we will not be able to directly increase costs. What, then, are our options? We have the opportunity to redefine the amounts within the limits of the existing state budget, to reflect on the use of the money on the basis of political priorities. This opportunity we have, and such proposals have been made a great deal. If the proposed sources of cover meet the criteria laid down by law, the question remains what is the political priority and the will of the majority of the Riigikogu hall: whether we are making Tallinn a four-line road from Tartu, increasing wages by 10%, not 4,4%, or deciding on a third solution. That is precisely the kind of political will we can realise here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U158	We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 269 on the Approval of Annex 9 to the International Convention on the Coordination of the Conditions of Border Control of Goods, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Allow me, good fellows, before we go to the procedure, to briefly present this draft for the first reading procedure. This procedure follows from § 98 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First, the originator or his representative shall report for up to 20 minutes. The waitress today is Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. After that, there will be a presentation by the commission, as well as up to 20 minutes, and then we'll go to the questions. Everyone has two questions to ask. After that there will be a round of negotiations. Now it is procedure, good colleagues, we all know, and we will move on to this item. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U159	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Annex 9 to the International Convention on the Harmonization of the Conditions of Border Control of Goods is a document that the Riigikogu could accept. The International Convention for the Coordination of Border Control Conditions for Goods has been ratified in Estonia since June 1996. The Convention was supplemented by Annex 9 on international rail freight. Joining this annex requires the approval of the Riigikogu in accordance with the Foreign Relations Act. The main objectives of Annex 9 to the Convention are (1) the reduction and harmonisation of procedures and documents relating to the border control of goods, (2) the reduction of delays at railway border crossing points. In order to avoid delays, the principle of control is established mainly at the stations of departure or destination and not at border stations. However, certain checks must, by their very nature, also be carried out at border stations and the latter are subject to specific requirements to reduce the time taken to control. Estonia fulfils all the conditions for rail transport set out in the Annex and our legislation is in line with the amendments to the Convention. The approval of the Annex does not entail any new obligations or legislative changes. The European Union, being a separate member of the Convention, has approved the Convention. This law could enter into force in general terms. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U160	Thank you, Minister. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U161	Honourable Minister of Finance! The coordination of border control conditions under this Convention also provides for joint controls. This means that Estonian customs will cooperate with Russian customs, with whom various joint activities will be planned. In recent times, however, the National Audit Office has also indicated that Russia has no interest in cooperating with us in this way. Has there been any development in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U162	Thank you. The National Audit Office has not discovered anything here, but I can answer this question directly in the affirmative. I have also met with the Russian administration, I have met with them, and I have recently met with the Russian representative of our Director General of the Tax and Customs Board. So there's good will from that side. It seems to me that customs cooperation has improved. At least contacts are real, also top-notch.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U163	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask Olga Sõtnik, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! This draft law was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on Monday, 8 October. All members of the Commission and Piret Liira, the chief specialist of the Customs and Excise Policy Department, represented by the Ministry of Finance were present. He presented this draft and answered some of the questions raised by the members of the Commission. The discussion revealed that this draft actually legitimises an annex which already applies to the Republic of Estonia from 30 November 2011, which has been approved by the Council of the European Union on 25 May 2010 and the text of which has also been published in the Official Journal of the European Union. On this basis, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to propose to the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the need be considered to amend the law on foreign relations in order to avoid future situations where we are subsequently legitimising some changes. It was also decided to propose to the Assembly that the first reading of bill 269 be terminated and that the deadline for amendments be set at 17 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U165	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 269 amendments on 7 November 2012 at 17:00. The first reading is closed and the second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U166	Let us move to the third item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U167	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The amendments to the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity disperse the 10% increase in excise duty on cigarettes planned for 2013 to two years in order to reduce the impact of the increase on the growth of the secret market and to increase excise duty by 6% per year instead of 5%. The aim of this increase is to achieve a minimum rate of excise duty in the European Union which will enter into force in 2014. In order to reach this threshold of EUR 90 per thousand cigarettes, the minimum amount of excise duty to be paid on cigarettes must be increased by an additional EUR 2. One practical reason why the minimum rate of excise duty should be achieved by 2014 is that it is possible to prevent the possibility of other EU Member States imposing restrictions on travellers coming from Estonia that up to 300 cigarettes can be brought free of tax in that year under the Euro Directive. Normally, a traveller is allowed to bring 800 cigarettes from another Member State without taxing them in the country of destination. As a result of the distribution of excise duty increases for cigarettes, it is estimated that excise duty will be reduced to EUR 3.2 million in 2013 and EUR 500000 more in 2014. As a result of the increase in excise duty on cigarettes, their expected weighted average price will increase by around 5,9% in 2013 and 4,4% in 2014. The entry into force of the Act is scheduled for 1 January 2013. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U168	Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. I thank the Minister. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Finance Committee, Peeter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 18 October, we discussed the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity 280. The aim of the draft is to dispel the 10% increase in excise duty on cigarettes planned for 2013 to two years in order to mitigate the risks of the secret market. What did the Commission debate say? We learned that there are different estimates of the secret market. Cigarettes are thought to be moving in the secret market for some €57 million. The proportion of taxation of the most expensive and cheaper cigarettes currently remains the same. The discussion also included a comparison of the weighted average of the prices of cigarettes in Latvia and Estonia: in 2011 the excise duty in Latvia was 108 euros per thousand cigarettes, and in Estonia it was 121 euros. Unfortunately, we had to admit that 30% of the population still smokes in Estonia, and it is growing among young people. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 23 October, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 1 November 2012. I was appointed a Commission waitress, Peter Laurson. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U170	Thank you. There's a question for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U171	Good manager! Good Peter! Did the Commission also invite managers of importers and traders to discuss whether it is a good idea to make this change in two years instead of one year? Businesses now have to spend two years in a row because of changes due to excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U172	The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers has supported the reduction of excise duty increases. This was not discussed separately because it was already known when the draft law was tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U173	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 280 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 280 amendments on 1 November at 6 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U174	Let us move to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The amendments to the Income Tax Act before you concern the taxation of the property income of contractual investment funds. A contractual investment fund is a fund that has no legal personality. The European Commission has accused Estonia of treating such funds differently depending on whether the fund is established in Estonia or abroad. The income of the contract fund established in Estonia has not yet been taxed. Income tax is only paid by investors when they sell shares or otherwise receive money from the fund. However, a foreign contractual fund must pay income tax as soon as it receives income in Estonia. This is because, later on, we do not have the possibility to tax this income. In order to stop this different treatment, real estate income from Estonian contractual funds in Estonia must also be taxed at the time of its service. As is currently the case with foreign funds, in the case of sale of assets, the tax period is a calendar month and in the case of rental and rental income a year. The draft relates only to property income, as there is no problem with other types of income, such as securities income, which will continue to be taxed when it reaches investors. The situation of foreign funds will not change if the law enters into force. We also considered the possibility of not taxing foreign funds' real estate income in the future, but this does not seem reasonable given that real estate income is the source of revenue most closely linked to the state. The draft also provides for double taxation provisions so that income taxed at the level of the fund is not taxed again. The draft makes an exception for Estonian pension funds and similar pension funds in other countries of the European Economic Area. Their income from real estate is taxed, just like any other income, only when it is in the hands of the investor, taking into account the special rules on taxation of pension payments. In addition to the changes in the taxation of funds, the draft makes some wordingual clarifications to other provisions on the taxation of securities income. The changes do not have a visible impact on the state budget. In order to allow market participants sufficient time to adapt to the changes, the Act enters into force on 1 January 2014. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U176	Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Thanks for the report. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Taavi Rõivas, member of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! We discussed this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 18 October. The Minister of Finance gave a fairly detailed overview of the contents of the draft. I will only add so much that the infringement procedure of the European Commission also requires us to have similar taxation on various funds or contractual funds with different countries of origin. In the Commission, we discussed exactly what this unequal treatment is and what the effects of the new taxation will be. One of the concerns raised by the members of the committee was that the tax system is becoming somewhat more complex for Estonian funds, as real estate income is taxed at a different point than the proceeds from the sale of securities or from the trading of securities, for example. From the point of view of the simplicity of the tax system, this may not be the best solution, but at the same time it is clear that achieving equal taxation is extremely important and it is not possible to come up with a better solution. We also talked about pension funds and how it is possible to own real estate through a company and how it changes the details of taxation. It's an interesting nuance, but it's technical enough. If you're interested, you can ask and we can talk more about it. It's all well written in the bill. We decided to finish the first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 6 p.m. on 1 November. The decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U178	Good colleagues, any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 275 amendments on 1 November 2012 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U179	We will move to the fifth item, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Enlargement of the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Investment Bank'. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U180	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Upon approval of the decision, the Riigikogu gives its consent to increase Estonia's participation in the European Investment Bank by 7138000 euros. This is merely a capital increase to be paid up, which means that the entire amount is to be paid up. This increases the bank's promised share capital to EUR 242 billion, including paid-up capital to EUR 21 billion. All Member States are expected to contribute according to their share capital. Estonia's share is 0.071%. The capital increase shall take effect once it has been approved unanimously by the members of the Bank. It's expected before the end of the year. After the approval of the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance will forward the relevant letter to the investment bank. The contribution is due by the end of March 2013 and will be planned in the budget for the coming year. The aim of the capital increase is to support growth and employment in the Member States of the European Union. An increase in the bank's paid-up capital is the most effective and quickest option. It strengthens the bank's capital base and enhances its lending capacity. In this respect, the key objective is to maintain the bank's AAA rating, which helps to ensure reliability and favourable financial conditions in financial markets. In order to better target additional resources, the Bank intends to create a growth and employment facility with the following objectives: to promote innovation and improve the skills of the workforce, to ensure access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises and to contribute to the efficient use of resources, including support for renewable energy and the establishment of strategic infrastructure (telecommunication, energy, transport). In order to make projects more successful, the Bank will expand its technical and financial advice. The increase in paid-up capital to EUR 10 billion will allow the bank to increase its lending capacity by EUR 60 billion. The Bank plays a leverage role. By ensuring that no more than 50% of the project volume is part-financed by projects, the Bank will help to mobilise other donors and facilitate cooperation with national intermediate agencies, funds and private financial partners. We support the increase in capital because it contributes to the implementation of the structural reforms that underpin the growth of the European Union. At the same time, we consider it important that the facility and resources are used in a targeted way and that the Bank's monitoring activities are strengthened. The Bank must support projects with clear added value for regions and sectors with limited or complex financing opportunities. Bank financing can also be combined with the use of EU funds, which will further increase its impact on growth and employment. Capital increase benefits the members of the bank, including the Estonian economy, also allowing Estonian companies access to the funding created. Estonian companies have received EUR 1.3 billion in loans from the bank in 2009-2012. Among others, Eesti Energia, Elering, Northern Estonia Regional Hospital, Elisa and Muuga Sadam have received loans. The Estonian state also has a loan agreement with the bank, which was signed in 2009 at 550 million euros. This loan has co-financed external support projects, including investments in road construction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U181	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? It is. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U182	Minister, thank you very much. I'm taking this opportunity to correct a little word mistake. Mr Luigas asked why we are paying EUR 7 billion at a time. You forgot to fix that we are talking about seven million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U183	Honourable Minister of Finance! In the case of share capital increases, Member States have different options. Some Member States have thought that a lump sum payment would be more beneficial for them, yet the possibility is given to divide this contribution into three years. On what basis did Estonia decide to transfer seven billion euros at once next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U184	Of course! Thank you. Seven billion euros was a budget. It was the one before or I don't know how many items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U185	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Finance Committee, Peeter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U186	That's what we can do, that's all. There's no point in stalling and hindering cooperation. There is, by the way, a very strong political agenda in the capital increase, not in the countries closest to us, which, in the meantime, said that there was an alternative to austerity. That's when the plan came up. I mean, it had a very strong symbolic meaning and it would certainly be nice to be symbolically involved. It doesn't work miracles, but there's something you can understand. There are worse proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U187	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this item at its meeting on 8 October. The bill was presented by Kristiina Abel, the advisor of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance. By decision, the Riigikogu gives its consent to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Investment Bank and authorises the Government of the Republic to carry out the operations necessary for the contribution. The questions that were discussed during the debate were as follows: What is the position of other countries on the speed of contributions? It turned out that more or less everyone would try to make payments in one year. The sooner this happens, the sooner the bank can start meeting its goals. How will the growth of the economy and employment created by the additional instruments be ensured? We learned that the bank is planning to set up annual reviews of the use of money and the follow-up of projects. The European Investment Bank's investment policy has been more focused on the countries of the European Union since 2009, with only 10% going outside. There was also the question of how this bank has achieved low interest rates. We received an answer because of the distribution of profits to reserves. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 23 October. a, propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be 1 November, propose that the first reading be stopped and appoint me rapporteur, Peeter Laurson. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U189	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 285 amendments on 1 November 2012 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U190	Let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related to it. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. Since draft 258 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of presence before the final vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 42. I will put draft 258 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. by 49 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, with one abstention. Since the draft 258, the draft law on the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto, did not collect 51 votes, it falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U191	We will move to the next item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic, the notary's fee law and the Civil Status Act. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I open negotiations and ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U192	Thank you. I don't want a word, but I want a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U193	Why do you want a break?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U194	We want a break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U195	We have not yet reached the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U196	Got it. Let's wait.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U197	I come back to my question. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Since Bill 219 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, before the final vote, we will carry out a verification of the presence. 60 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 41 are missing. I will put draft 219 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. I interrupt the vote. Tõnu Juul, please, procedural question! What's your problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U198	It just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U199	Is it working now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U200	Yeah, it's working now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U201	Press, for example, the second button on the left button 'Virgats', then we'll see if it works or doesn't work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U202	Right now, the whole bottom line is gone. I have nowhere to press.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U203	So your remote isn't working. Do you have the bottom row or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U204	If the speech continues, he will not be able to work. I'm just having this beautiful green talk shrinking. Let's go to zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U205	Let's stop. Let me know if it works or it doesn't! I declare a two-minute break so that I can check Tõnu's July remote control. The sitting will be resumed at 4:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U206	Since the voting board of some members of the Riigikogu did not work, I ask whether there are still problems with the remote control or whether they have been solved. No problems. We remained in the third reading of the matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic, the notary's fee law and the law amending the Civil Status Act 219. We carried out a verification of the presence because this bill requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law. We have come to the final vote. I will put draft 219 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 49 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Bill 219 of the matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic, the notary's fee law and the law amending the Civil Status Act was not passed as a law and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U207	Let us move to the next item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on fishing initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? It is not advisable to negotiate, so we can go to the final vote. I will put draft 255 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft 255 Act amending the Fisheries Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U208	Let us move to the next item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of the law on liquid fuel. I ask for a presentation by Tõnis Lukas, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U209	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Between the first reading and the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of the Ambient Air and the Liquid Fuel Act, the Committee on the Environment held two meetings: on 15 and 22 October. Specialists from the Ministry of the Environment took part in the meetings and we tabled two amendments. One of them means the definition of emissions. We propose that the word 'light' be taken out of the definition of 'emission', since light pollution will later be dealt with in more detail. This wording of the law does not add anything to the regulation that is already in force, so it is not necessary here. Other emissions are defined in more detail. We will limit their participation to this sense. The second amendment relates to § 3. We propose that paragraph 2 (1) (10) be deleted with regard to the entry into force. The reason for excluding this provision from the draft is of a technical nature. The deadline for the draft law to enter into force was 1 November, which is not real. In fact, it is not necessary to leave this provision in the draft law at all. We also made technical and linguistic changes. One of them, which received more than average attention at the Commission session, was to replace the word'scented perception' with'scented sensation'. The Committee on the Environment has proposed that the second reading of the draft be stopped and when the second reading is completed, we propose that the draft be sent to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U210	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us move on to the examination of the 267 amendments to the draft. Two amendments have been received, both from the lead committee and have been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading of the draft should be terminated. The second reading is closed and this item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U211	Let us move to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The State Fees Act lays down higher rates of state fees for identity documents and driving licences issued by foreign agencies and for documents issued by consular services than for national procedures with a view to covering higher costs abroad. According to the bill, the national fee for the issue of a passport other than a diplomatic passport will be paid at foreign agencies EUR 60, up to now EUR 30, EUR 50 for the issue of an ID card, EUR 25 until now, and EUR 80 for the issue of the previous two documents together, up to now EUR 40. An additional national fee of EUR 50 will also be imposed in the event of a change in the place where the identity document was issued, as this will in turn entail additional costs. So far, additional costs were covered from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. New rates of state fees will also be introduced for more commonly used consular services provided by the Foreign Mission and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The national fee for the issuing of certificates shall be increased from EUR 15 to EUR 20, the national fee for the issuing of a certificate for the sealing of a coffin or urn with dust, and from EUR 15 to EUR 20. The state fee for the provision of translation services by the consular officer will increase, so that every page to be translated will have to be paid EUR 60 instead of EUR 15. It takes into account that translating a document requires special knowledge and is labor-intensive. The state fee paid for the transmission of a document through a diplomatic mission will be increased from EUR 15 to EUR 20 due to increased postal costs. Thereafter, in the case of the issue of a motor vehicle's first licence, a driving licence and an international licence or a duplicate thereof, a state fee of EUR 55,56 will be payable at the diplomatic mission (EUR 25,56 will be added to the national fee of EUR 30 to cover the additional costs). The expected revenue increase is up to EUR 500000 per year. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deputy Chair of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U214	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed in the Committee on Finance at its meeting on 15 October. The draft came to introduce us to the consular department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, lawyer Klarika Liiv. On a number of topics, the most significant of them may be three. What are the fees charged for examining applications for the issue of identity documents in other Member States of the European Union? Does the increase in the fee for issuing a document relate only to additional costs, in particular postal charges, or does it involve any other costs? Is the increase in fees proportional to the costs of issuing a document abroad compared to issuing a document in Estonia? The rate of state fees shall normally be established on the basis of the costs incurred in carrying out the operation. In view of the principle of cost, it was asked how the rate of remuneration had developed when the document was translated by the consular officer. Some of the questions were slightly aired, but hopefully they will have more precise answers in the course of the procedure. It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 31 October. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U215	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 284 amendments on 31 October 2012 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and this item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U216	We will go to the next item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for a presentation by the Secretary of the Environment of the Chair, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Government, I will submit to Parliament a draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act, which aims to organise the management of nature conservation. This bill was inspired by the decision of the Supreme Court in the late spring of last year. In that decision, it was found, on the basis of one of the cases of the granting of protection in 2007, that the law needs to be adjusted precisely from that point of view, so as to ensure better protection of fundamental rights under the Constitution in the event of the release of nature protection. A few words about the general situation of nature conservation in Estonia. In Estonia, about 18% of the land and 31% of the sea area are protected by nature, which indicates that we no longer have a scratching need or a serious intention to create a very large volume of nature reserves. In Estonia, natural values are generally well protected and maintained. Also, according to the long-prepared nature conservation development plan adopted this year, the aim of the next ten years is not so much to expand the protected areas, but to ensure that what has already been protected is indeed well cared for. The result of the legislative changes before you can be summarised briefly so that the establishment of the protected area and the establishment of the protection rule will become clearer, more transparent and more carefully considered. Experts will have to assess the feasibility of establishing a protected area in the future, whether the establishment of a territorial protected area is the best and most sensible way to protect a rare species or habitat, or whether there is another, more appropriate way to do so. The law also makes more precise the requirements for proposing the formation of a protected area. It is not that a proposal in quite arbitrary form could serve as a basis for the creation of a protected area. In the future, those proposing the establishment of a protected area must state the reasons why a protected area should be established in a particular place. The map must indicate the limits to which the protected area is intended to be established. The specific location where the rare or endangered natural value is located must also be indicated. If the amendment is approved by you, more detailed requirements will also apply to the notification of the initiation of protection. The requirements for objections have also been set out in more detail. They must be properly justified. The draft law also provides a guided, open list of reasons which should be taken into account if anyone objects to the formation of a protected area. It is not enough just to announce that I do not like the proposal and I do not agree with it. Specific objections must be substantiated in all respects. An important change is certainly that a certain time is set for the time needed for the proposed protection to be limited to the area in question. As you know, there are currently no time limits in the law for the establishment of protection rules in terms of decision-making and restrictions, which means that there may be a situation in which the right of a person to use his or her property may be restricted in substance for an indefinite period of time and for years. We propose that this period should be specific, namely that it be limited to 28 months. One change concerns the shoreline. The law states more clearly that the shoreline must be guaranteed the possibility of moving even if, for example, a garden is to be built along the shore to help maintain coastal meadows, in order to limit the spread of animals. In this case, too, access to the shoreline must be guaranteed and people must not be prevented from moving there. The regulation is such that a provision is included in the Nature Conservation Act which allows the holder of an immovable property located on the beach or on the shore, where justified and with the written consent of the local authority, to block the shoreline, but in the event of a barrier to the shoreline, people must be guaranteed access to the barrier. This means that people must still be able to move along the shoreline. The law also provides for an open indicative list of activities for which obstruction of the shoreline is unavoidable and therefore justified. This may be the drainage of the land in a ditch or the need to herd animals on the waterline. With the additional provision, the municipality has the right to decide whether blocking the shoreline is acceptable. It has been asked why we give this right to the municipality and whether the municipality is the right body to take this decision. Since the regulation of construction activities (plannings and building permits) is the authority of the municipality and local circumstances are known to the municipality, as well as a possible public interest in the water body and its shoreline, the government is convinced that the municipality is the most competent to decide whether the shoreline can be blocked and justified. The municipality consents to or refuses to block the shoreline on a discretionary basis. The decision must be made to clarify whether the need to block the shoreline is justified, whether it is feasible and proportionate in comparison with the right of everyone to move on the shoreline unhindered. The decision must take into account all relevant factors, including the popularity of the water body and the recreative importance. From the point of view of nature conservation, as I mentioned above, there is a need for the establishment of grazing areas that close the shoreline, in particular for the maintenance of coastal meadows, if livestock should be allowed to move to the waterline. The last important change concerns the additional feeding of hunting animals in national parks. It's forbidden. In national parks, nature reserves and permanent habitats, it is important to reduce the damage caused by hunting animals to species that are at risk and protected in protected areas. I would ask for your support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U218	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? At least there's one. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have been talking about the creation of one target protection zone, namely the Tallike target protection zone. Are these legislative changes in any way relevant to the establishment of this target protection zone? Will people have greater rights to refuse the establishment of a target zone, or will this law give the Ministry greater opportunities for compensatory mechanisms so that agreements can be reached on the establishment of a target zone?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U220	Thank you. This law does not provide for any additional possibilities to pay compensation. This does not fall within the scope of the Nature Conservation Act. The amendment, which concerns all amendments or introductions of the protection rule that are still in progress, is the same time frame. The formation of the Tallike target zone you mentioned has been carried out for a very long time and has still reached a rather final stage. We definitely don't have to start over with the stables. Rather, this decision must finally be made by one, the other, or the third, in order to be clarified. Unfortunately, there are no such changes to the bill on compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U221	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U222	Dear Minister, If the conservation of a natural object takes place in private land and landowners remain convinced that they do not want to impose these restrictions, how will this process be completed, so that their wishes will be written by the Ministry of the Environment and will also be received by landowners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U223	Thank you. One amendment concerning the procedure for establishing a purely protective rule is that it is very clear that the law will be regulated that, when a decision is taken on the granting of protection, the explanatory memorandum, which is in favour of justification, must be delivered immediately to all concerned. If anyone has a desire to challenge this decision, it is important that the reasons why in a particular place it is a natural value that forces a strict protection regime to be imposed must be clearly stated and understood by the people. The imposition of protection on private land is likely to lead to quite lengthy disputes for almost every protected area. Sometimes this debate gets pretty philosophical. If it is a value to be protected, regardless of the country in which it is located, is it justified to grant exemptions from land ownership, so if the value is in state land, we will protect, but if it is in private land, then we will abandon protection? I don't think such exceptions can be made. However, the second part of this question relates to the fact that when, because of the extraordinary natural value, restrictions are imposed on private land and the owner can no longer dispose of his private property and use it as he intended, it must be compensated. The country's compensatory mechanisms must not be very symbolic. If it is a land for which it would otherwise have been possible to make a profit, then the compensation must compensate for it. But this is the other part of this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U224	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U225	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I do not currently know the practice of dealing with seal products in Estonia. Can you comment on the impact of this ban on Estonia's real life?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U226	Trade in seal products is governed by a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on trade in seal products. It is understood that we must take over these requirements. Almost the Member sitting behind you, who is very familiar with seal products and trade in them, I think, will be happy to enlighten you thoroughly. But at the moment, these are changes that really need to be transposed into our law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U227	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U228	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Do you promise not to be introduced before these restrictions if a compensation mechanism has been developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U229	Thank you. If your question went on to go back to the previous question, I will say that there is still a compensation mechanism. The debate is on whether the compensation that is currently being paid is sufficient or not. I have previously expressed my view before the Riigikogu that if it is very restrictive, the level of compensation needs to be reviewed and should be higher. I'll come back to the last question for a moment. Just in case, as a matter of fact, since this is primarily a matter of restrictions on the import of seal products, this does not concern a very large number of people in Estonia. This amendment has no significant impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U230	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask Annely Akkermann, Member of the Environment Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U231	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed the proposed amendments to the Nature Conservation Act at its two meetings on 8 October and 15 October. Mr Andres Talijärv, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, and Mr Eda Pärtel, Head of the Legal Department, took part in the meeting on 8 October. Eda Pärtel explained the need to amend the Nature Conservation Act. The Minister pointed out these aspects in his speech, so I am not going to repeat them, but to give an overview of the practical things that the Members of the Commission were interested in. Explanations were given on the additional feeding and hunting of wild game. It seems that there are too many wild boars in very many regions. The members of the Riigikogu receive many such signals. Tõnis Lukas asked whether additional feeding as an activity has been defined with sufficient precision, whether a distinction should not be made between additional feeding for the purpose of making it easier for animals to hunt and winter feeding. One of the reasons why the law on animal grazing entered into the Nature Conservation Act was that the Environmental Board, in order to protect associations by water bodies, concluded grazing agreements with landowners and keepers of farm animals, but at the same time there is no right to block water borders with the pasture gardens. In practice, this is inevitable because it is not possible to build a circular garden, especially in western Estonia and islands where meadows on the waterfront need grazing, because the waterline is extremely uneven. As regards the grazing of animals, there was also a problem as to whether the Water Law allowed any grazing by water bodies. Andres Talijärv replied that nature conservation work by water bodies was allowed. It may be incomprehensible to ordinary people that grazing is part of animal husbandry and, in fact, it is a common concept of economic activity and entrepreneurship, but in the sense of the Nature Conservation Act, it is like nature conservation work. I think it's gonna take a little while for the country people to figure it out. Chancellor Rita Annus, Deputy Chancellor Andres Talijärv and Head of Legal Department Eda Pärtel took part in the second meeting of the committee. The committee had invited Taavi Ehrpais, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Private Forest Association, and Ants Erik, member of the board, to comment on the draft. Anne Läns, Adviser to the Estonian Union of Cities, Tiina Ühenevav, Adviser to the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, Jüri-Ott Salm, Chairman of the Management Board of the Estonian Nature Foundation, and Merle Kuris, Nature Conservation Expert of the Baltic Environmental Forum of NGO. Rita Annus once again explained the proposals to amend the Nature Conservation Act and the representatives of the organisations presented the views of members of their organisations on these issues. As an alternate member, Igor Gräzin took part in the meeting of the Commission, who asked how the provision on stopping the shoreline and the passage of the shoreline ended up in the Nature Conservation Act at all. In his view, this is a purely private problem, since it is a servitude and servitudes are imposed only by court order. Thus, the LA cannot decide to set up livestock gardens and to block the passage. Rita Annus replied that the shoreline provision was included in the Nature Conservation Act, the shoreline was regulated by the Nature Conservation Act and the property law gave the reference to it. It must be said that the representatives of the local governments did not explicitly support the idea that blocking the shoreline would remain a matter for the local authorities and under their supervision. I think they still have to discuss it with their membership. It seemed to me that they were not familiar with this practice of grazing or conservation work along watercourses. At the end of the discussion, the Commission decided to appoint me as rapporteur for the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the first reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, Wednesday, 24 October, and to propose that the Riigikogu plenary session finish the first reading. The Riigikogu Board is invited to set the deadline of 7 November 2012 at 4 p.m. for submitting draft amendments. All these decisions were adopted by consensus by the Committee on the Environment. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U232	Thank you. Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. I will set the deadline for tabling 287 amendments on 7 November 2012 at 4 p.m. According to the decision of the Governing Commission, the first reading has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U233	We are moving to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for a presentation by the Secretary of the Environment of the Chair, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U234	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! By presenting this bill, too, I will start my presentation a little bit more widely. I am not going to talk about this specific, rather compact and short draft. The environmental fee regulated by the draft law is, by its nature, a remuneration for the irrecoverable value of all taxpayers, the use and reduction of Estonian mineral resources and the environmental impact of these activities. From time to time, when talking about mineral resources, it seems that mineral resources are owned by one or another mineral mining company or by someone else's personal property. The property of an individual cannot or will not belong to a mineral resource. Mineral assets, as well as all other state assets, belong to all taxpayers. The damage resulting from its use and the environmental disruptions it entails will, unfortunately, be borne by all taxpayers together in the same way. One of the tasks of the state is to direct those companies in a rather narrow circle that can use this mineral resource, all of us, to the sustainable and more environmentally friendly use of this common national asset. One way to do this is certainly precisely environmental charges. Revenue from environmental taxation has, inter alia, been the main source of financing for environmental protection measures in the country for many years. It has carried out a large number of environmental projects at both local and national level. In 2011, the total amount of environmental charges was EUR 74,6 million, estimated at EUR 83,3 million for this year, and the forecast for the following year is estimated at EUR 100 million (EUR 99,2 million). Environmental fees have been in use in Estonia since the early 1990s. In 2005, the Government of the Republic approved the baselines for ecological tax reform, through which it was intended to influence the behaviour of producers and consumers towards a more sustainable use of these same natural resources and the environment, in order to prevent and, if prevention is not possible, to reduce the potential damage associated with the use of natural resources, pollution and waste disposal. The foundations of the ecological tax reform approved in 2005 state, among other things, that the aim at that time was to give a clear signal that the Estonian state wants to use its natural resources and environment in a sustainable manner. It was certainly not a less important message that the gradual increase in environmental charges would lead to greater value for natural resources. The current Estonian environmental tax system is largely based on these same principles as those set out in the principles of ecological tax reform approved in 2005. According to this, environmental charges must be at a level that would affect the behaviour of people and businesses towards sustainable consumption and encourage the re-use of these materials. Estonia has also been moving very clearly for years to reduce the taxation of work and earned income, and to tax pollution, the use of natural resources and consumption. Since 2006, the regulation of the implementation of environmental charges has been incorporated into a single law on environmental charges. Parliament has given the government the limits by which the government can determine the payment of the right to mine mineral resources by this law. The ceiling and minimum levels of environmental charges established by the Act have been set on the basis of the need to provide companies with the possibility to predict the level of environmental charges and the possibility for the State to plan to improve the economic performance of environmental protection in line with economic conditions. In view of the limits in force, the Government has set the charges for the use of the environment until 2015. It is important to clarify one of the draft laws before you: the government regulation, which reviewed the levels of environmental charges at the beginning of October, is based on the law in force, and the draft that we have now submitted to you, will have an impact next year only on the levy. For other environmental charges, the government has based itself on the framework laid down by law for the following year. We don't want to make any changes here. The bill submitted to you will change the deposit fee from 1 April with 20% steps. The remaining proposals contained in the draft are as follows: Firstly, for mineral waters, the rounding of the ceiling is adjusted. As this issue also arose in the Commission, in anticipation of the question, I would say that the rates for mineral water have not been amended by a government regulation. The second part of the amendments also provides for changes to the mining fees and ceilings on the specific rights of use for mining water laid down in the Act. The impact will only be evident here in 2015. According to the government regulation at the beginning of October, we will not reach the statutory ceilings for environmental charges for any mineral resource before 2015. It must be said immediately that even then, the remuneration for most of the mineral extraction rights will remain well below the existing legal ceiling. The increases contained in the government regulation, as I said, do not exceed the current ceilings for the rights of extraction and the charges for the special water right, which means that the government has acted on the ceilings approved by the Riigikogu in 2009 and established by the current law. The amendments should enter into force on 1 April next year. That means that the notice period is quite long. Based on the quarterly organisation of environmental charges and payments, the increase in environmental charges will actually affect companies in August-September next year. Such a buffer period of more than half a year has also been enshrined in the law in the case of herbaceous substances, precisely in order to follow good practice and give them the opportunity to adjust their activities accordingly. I ask you to support the bill! I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U235	Thank you. The question is Rainer Vakral. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question for you about the pickle and the road construction. Can you tell me whether or not to approximate that if you take a short and use it to draw a circle to oil shale deposits, how many kilometres could you think it would be transported to Hiiumaa, Pärnu or Tallinn? Can you say, roughly, how widespread a substance could be introduced, especially in road construction?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U237	Thank you. Transport of waste to Hiiumaa is unlikely to be the most appropriate, as transport costs would be so high that it would simply not make economic sense. However, it is certainly possible to use the substance much more in mainland Estonia than in the current situation. It can be used primarily on roads where quality standards are not very strict. Right now, the pickle is largely simply piled up in piles. In some cases, this pile has been tried to be called a pyramid or some other interesting thing. This is certainly not the best example of how to use resources. We think it would be possible to introduce a lot more substance in road construction. It has been speculated that changing environmental charges could lead to an increase in the cost of road construction. With greater use of the substance, the result may be exactly the opposite; we should not talk about the appreciation, but, on the contrary, about the depreciation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U238	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with the use of road construction and waste materials. It is clear that there will be no use of herbage in road construction across Estonia, as transport costs will become too high. Take Rail Baltic, for example. Gravel sand and limestone chippings are Estonia's own local construction assets, which are used to build roads. Will the increase in mining charges for construction assets be reflected in this and in the next state budget? The next country's budget strategy will be drawn up for a long time. We will ultimately pay for the increase in the same mining fee from the country's second pocket. Is that accounted for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When, in the Committee on the Environment, a month or a month and a half ago, we dealt with another draft Environmental Charges Act, we also asked for an opinion from the Ministry of Finance. From there we received a letter referring to various alternatives to resource taxation. Is this very good proposal, which taxes resources transparently and evenly and directs companies towards more sustainable use of resources, a final solution in the area of environmental taxes and all other alternatives, including the taxation of some final products, excluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U240	Thank you. I'll start at the back. In the case of mineral water, as I said in my introductory report, no changes have been made in relation to the rates in force. If you look at the amendment contained in the bill, you will see that mineral water is a purely rounding adjustment. Previously, the current ceiling was EEK 36000. It is now rounded to EUR 2300, but the correct amount is EUR 2300.81. But we have not changed the ceiling for mineral water in the government regulation, there is no change here. As far as the oil shale is concerned, there is a clear trend to increase efficiency. If we are talking about the fact that mining still has losses of around 30%, then there is reason to think about the more effective use of mineral resources. This is the direction that, with this change, not with the change before you, but with the change made by the government, it is intended to implement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U241	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U242	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that we are far from the legal limits at the moment, not even close to them. You also said that in the case of a deposit fee, you are planning to cross the bounds. I guess it was, maybe I was wrong, but it doesn't matter. At the same time, the draft concerns almost all areas. If we are now very far from the thresholds, why, for example, did you not just stick to the deposit fee, which is the subject of your attention? Why was it necessary to start raising the thresholds now, if we are not even close to the ceiling yet and we are not going to reach it after 2015 as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U243	Thank you. We're talking about the payment for the sinking of the pickle. This is a pollution charge. Parliament shall lay down the amount of the pollution premium in the form of a deposit fee by law. Here Parliament has not given the government the power to decide; this fee must be imposed by law. But once again, the rest of the changes in the bill before you are essentially divided into two. The first change concerns mineral water. This, as I said in response to the previous question, is a purely rounding adjustment. The second part of the changes concerns the ceilings to be reached in 2015 and the calculation that the environmental tax will change by 20% per year as from 1 April 2013 for the mineral resources covered by the Act. The current government regulation takes account of the limits that the law states. In the case of mineral resources, which are not mentioned in the draft before you, there is still a long way to go to the ceiling. There's been oil shale here today. In the case of oil shale, we will also reach EUR 2.4 in the case of a 20% increase by 2015, although the upper limit laid down by law provides an opportunity to move to EUR 6.39. You will see that the difference, even though the increase is 20% per year, is quite significant. Oil shale is only one example, for example limestone and there are quite a few other examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U244	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, this legislative amendment also provides the legal basis for more money to be paid into the budget, but the desperate patching up of budget gaps, as has been said here, is certainly not, because in that case the government would have proposed to implement the law as from 1 January. On the basis of the calculation of the budget receipts, these fees would be paid to the budget in an increasing line anyway, for several reasons, there are different reasons in different areas. But how much more would environmental charges be received than planned in the budget if this law entered into force on 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U246	Thank you. I think you have now put together a government regulation, particularly for the next year, and a bill that will only have an impact on oil shale waste next year. With regard to other mineral resources and environmental charges, we are not talking about the impact of the bill next year. I have to specify that number. Given the government's regulation and the fact that the bill before you will enter into force on 1 April, the impact on next year's budget will be just over EUR 5 million. So if you start discussing, for example, the need-based reform of child benefits (this is an arbitrary parallel, but these amounts are comparable), the amount that will be received by the state budget due to the higher level of environmental charges will be as high as the amount that will be required for the growth of child benefits next year. But this number, what would be the increase if we applied these changes from 1 January, I have to specify not to be wrong about the decimal place. I do think that the date of entry into force of 1 April is reasonable. Even if the amount received by the state budget would be higher if the law were applied on 1 January, such a period of notice is necessary. I do not think it makes sense to bring into force earlier than 1 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U247	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling! Can't hear you well, talk closer to the microphone. We can't hear you. Let's get Kadri Samson and see what happens next. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U248	Thank you. It's a lovely thing to give ladies a privilege like that! My question arises from the fact that, according to the companies, the Ministry of the Environment gives very two-faced statements. In particular, companies who resent the increase in environmental charges have said that they inherited the planned increase in mining fees from the Ministry of the Environment and were confirmed in mid-September that these rates were fixed until 2015. But a few weeks later, the Prime Minister gave us the budget for next year, in which the increase was already taken into account. Did the Ministry of the Environment give false information to entrepreneurs in mid-September?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U249	No, the Ministry of the Environment has not misinformed the entrepreneurs. The reactions of entrepreneurs are also wall-to-wall and very different. I met several entrepreneurs today who were very understanding about what we have done with environmental charges and what we are doing with them. No false information has been given. However, the fact that some companies do not welcome changes in environmental charges by hurrahs does not seem to come as a surprise to anyone. I'm afraid that's the case. However, I think there are also companies that see the possibility of reviewing the technological side of production, of innovation and of getting more effective, precisely because of the additional pressure or impact of environmental charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U250	Thank you. First of all, it has to be said that if we look at water usage rates in Estonia at all, these figures can often startle. We seem to be handling water very sparingly, but the water consumption in Estonia is extremely high compared to several other countries of the European Union. The reason is nowhere else than in this very hotly loved oil shale industry. The oil shale industry spends as much water in a year as all Estonian people and the rest of the industry spends in four years in total. It's a very large volume. We are used in Estonia to not having problems with access to water and usually not with water purity, unless these problems are caused by old equipment. This has probably been one of the reasons why we take the use of water on the industrial side a little recklessly. I very much hope that we will not have problems, but we must also give a very clear signal that the water is becoming an increasingly valuable resource not only in Estonia but all over the world. It's literally a gold resource in some places. We have maintained the rates of charge for water use for 11 years, essentially unchanged, and the use of water does not show any reduction, on the contrary, it is actually increasing. This shows that companies do not bother to develop new approaches or to look for new solutions to save more water. That is why we consider it appropriate to review the rate of charge for the special water right, which is very low. But once again, I would point out that this amendment, which is included in the draft law, will only have an impact in 2015. Assuming that we will change the rate of the special water usage right by 20% per year, as with other mineral resources, we will only reach the upper limit set by law in 2015. This proposal that we have presented to you concerns not the next year, nor the next year, but the year 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U251	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I agree with you that there was a regulation at the beginning, and now we are talking about a bill. I also agree that the upper limit on fees is set by law. Let us now specifically talk about one mineral resource, namely the dolo stone. The Environmental Charges Act provides for a ceiling of EUR 5,11 per cubic metre. Since the proposed 20% increase would have raised it to EUR 5,24 per cubic metre, which goes against the law, this ceiling of EUR 5,24 was included in the draft. After the amendment of the law, there is still a need to amend the regulation and then there is the 20% increase. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U253	It's the same thing I've already explained several times, but okay, I'll explain it one more time. The regulation that you are likely to have or can easily find on the Internet concerns the change in remuneration from 1 April 2013. According to the Regulation, on 1 April 2013 the increase of 20% in the case of Dolokivi is also indicated. In the event of a 20% increase, the remuneration for the right to extraction of the TD will rise to EUR 3,64 on 1 April 2013. Like all other mineral resources, there is a 20% increase in 2014, when we reach EUR 4.37. 2015 - as I have repeatedly emphasised - is the time when the impact of this draft will come; it will not happen sooner. In 2015, an increase of 20% would amount to EUR 5,24 above the current ceiling. This is the proposal we are presenting to you. If we are to take a 20% step, then the ceilings for 2015 must be reviewed, not the ones for the next year or the following year. The regulation naturally takes into account the current legal ceiling of EUR 5,11. If Parliament supports the 2015 amendment, we will reach a possible revision of the regulation. In the current Regulation, the rate for 2015 is EUR 5,11 corresponding to the statutory ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U254	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U255	Thank you. I'm going to specify my last question. If this increase in environmental charges, although within the limits laid down by law, is driven by the government's long-term strategy, which has already been discussed here several times, rather than by the need to patch up budget holes, why did the undertakings concerned become aware of this, together with the public and many Members of Parliament, only in September? The limits have been known since 2009, which has ensured the predictability of legislative power, but certainly the activities of executive power should also be predictable for all those who are active in a specific area. Do you think that this should be predictable or could be changed in the context of budgetary procedures, three months before the adoption of the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U256	Thank you. Prophecy has been ensured by Parliament at the rates it has written into the law. These rates have been used by the government. In spring 2009, an additional concept of environmental charges was presented to the government, which in some cases provided for an increase of not 20% but even 25% per year. This concept was discussed with economic operators and has also been out in public on the Internet. Everyone has had the opportunity to comment. Of course, when we talk about environmental charges, it is too much to hope that we will achieve full consensus and consensus. As I have said, there are different entrepreneurs in Estonia. Indeed, there are those who feel that there is no need to collect environmental charges at all. Since you are constantly coming back to the government's regulation, rather than talking about the bill before you, I will say once again: the government in its regulation has been guided by the rates laid down by Parliament in the law, and these have been known to everyone. They have also been known and predictable for all operators.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U257	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U258	Thank you. It seems to me that a certain degree of suspension and confusion arises from the fact that this bill talks about the rise in the levy for the deposit of waste material since April 2013 and also concerns a number of other construction assets. Why can't we just focus on this rise in the reward of the disease and leave other issues out of this bill? Maybe then the message would be clearer for everyone. The second option is to introduce other increases at the level of the law from 2015 onwards, so that there is no feeling that the government may soon increase the fees before 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U259	We can discuss that. In principle, this is one way of delimiting this draft only to the treatment of waste materials or pollution charges. As regards the need for the remaining changes, this is indeed a question of regularity with regard to mineral water. As I have mentioned, this is an adjustment for rounding. For the rest, the impact will only occur in 2015. This must be discussed calmly in the Commission. We thought it reasonable for us to give a clear signal that this 20% step is what will be implemented until 2015. However, if Parliament considers that this is unreasonable, it must be corrected, whichever is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U260	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U261	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In the next year's state budget, the increase in environmental charges is expected to generate some EUR 5 million in additional money. Today, the Riigikogu held the first reading of the state budget for next year. How do the two come together?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U262	Thank you. The additional revenues of EUR 5 million from 1 April due to changes in environmental charges are derived from a government regulation issued at the beginning of October. This is a change already made by the government, based on Parliament's pre-defined framework. I followed the budget debate and I understood that there was a question of how the budget can already take account of these revenues. The budget can count on these revenues because this change, which Parliament has given a mandate to the government, was made at the beginning of October. The impact of this amendment, which concerns the following year, is the result of a government regulation amending the environmental charges applicable on 1 April next year. Hence the additional revenue. The bill before you concerns a substance of distress. The impact of this change next year will not be EUR 5 million, but less than EUR half million. So there is no contradiction, the budget takes account of the changes made by the government at the beginning of October this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U263	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I would like to ask Tõnis Lukas, Chairman of the Environment Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U264	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed this draft law at its two meetings: 9 October and 15 October. On 9 October, the Commission received experts from the Ministry of the Environment. My impression is that if we had been able to reconcile the timetables in such a way that the Minister would have been present at this committee meeting, the handling of this draft would have gone smoothly, because some of the questions that arose on the ground were not as precise as the members of the Commission expected. Of course he came to the information later. To date, I think that the Commission, also taking into account the Minister's explanations today, has a clear enough picture to go on with the subject. On 9 October, however, the questions were divided into two parts: firstly, questions were asked about the conceptual side, about the increase in fees at all and about the advance notice, about the impact on entrepreneurship, secondly, about the specific rates imposed by the government regulation, and about their relationship to the limits given by law. Since we didn't find out the exact figures in the government decree, there were a few things that, as I said, were left in the air. I am saying that the first time we touched on the subject, I proposed to decide that the draft law would be sent to the first reading of the hall. This was not supported by the Commission at that time, which is why we discussed this draft again in the Commission before the first reading. The subjects were similar. We talked about the specific information we expected from the government, and also about the deadlines for prior notification. There was also a procedural problem as to the order in which the agenda for a particular sitting could be dealt with. Since both the opposition and the coalition are very nuclearly represented in the Commission, the Commission did not reach the conclusion on this occasion that the draft was so mature that the first reading could be completed. However, the Commission decided to send the draft to the first reading of the Chamber and appointed the chairman of the committee as rapporteur. The vote was on whether the first reading should be completed. The votes were divided as follows: 5 in favour, 5 against and no one abstained. In essence, I have nothing to add to the Minister's point, as the Minister was able to answer questions in addition to a thorough presentation and to explain some details even several times. On behalf of the Commission, I will say nothing more than that the Commission's formal proposal is not to finish the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U265	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of Karel Rüütel.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U266	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. In any case, the debate on changes to environmental charges is welcome. Personally, I am in favour of introducing the polluter pays principle. However, in 2009, Parliament adopted changes to the levels of environmental charges, which significantly increased environmental taxes until 2015, and a certain agreement was reached with the social partners and several parties on the extent to which environmental charges would increase each year. The aim of the implementation of environmental charges is, of course, to prevent or reduce potential damage associated with the use of natural resources, the release of pollutants into the environment and the disposal of waste. There is a need for companies to apply the best possible environmental technologies to make more efficient use of resources and to reduce the generation of waste and pollutants. However, when setting the rates, it must be borne in mind that the needs of environmental protection and the economic and social situation of the country are being taken into account. The Social Democratic Party considers that before the introduction of new rates, it is necessary to assess how the current system of environmental charges has affected the economic activities of companies and their decisions on whether to invest in more environmentally sustainable technologies. It is also necessary to give both the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu an overview of environmental changes (e.g. reduction or increase of waste and pollutants, changes in resource use and the impact of the economy on them). Before making fundamental decisions, we need to assess the impact and effectiveness of the rates in force so far. The State Chancellery has commissioned a study from the Smart Decision Foundation "Development and Organisation of a Long-Term Planning System for Government Work." The results of the analysis should be finalised by the end of this year, but we learned from the Minister's replies that this analysis will be completed at the beginning of next year. So, analyses that could give decision-makers the knowledge of how environmental charges have worked and how their planned constant increase until 2015 will affect us, unfortunately, not yet. I have not seen the analyses that the previous speakers have referred to. They have not been submitted to the Committee on the Environment. In any case, please send these analyses to the Committee on the Environment before the second reading. At present, the process of exponential rise in environmental charges has been launched in the same way as building a house without a foundation. As a foundation, I consider this analysis ordered by the government from the State Chancellery. The Social Democratic Party is of the opinion that it is not appropriate to increase environmental charges as the state has agreed with the various parties on the increase in environmental charges. We will not be able to move forward with the draft until thorough analysis is completed. Until then, we will not support further processing of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U267	Now Kalle Palling has the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U268	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no call. The commission has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for the vote. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the Committee on the Environment as the lead committee, 282 at first reading, to be rejected. Please take a stand and vote. 22 members of the Riigikogu, 46 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Thus, the first reading has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 282 amendments on 7 November 2012 at 6 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted and the sitting closed. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.56 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U269	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U270	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I am also generally a supporter of ecological tax reform. Implementation of the polluter pays principle is welcome in any case. But if we change anything, it should be preceded by analysis or research. I know that the State Chancellery has commissioned a study from the Smart Decision Fund on the impact of environmental charges, their socio-economic impacts, etc. I think this study should be ready by now, because it's due. Did the government take these analyses into account before proceeding with the decision to increase environmental charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U271	Thank you. Of course, this decision was preceded by an in-depth analysis. The work you have referred to will be completed at the beginning of next year and will be focused primarily on the future. But the analyses have, of course, been carried out. The proportion of environmental charges in the price of one product or another has also been assessed. Among other things, it has been analysed how sustainably, efficiently and economically those companies that have the right to use and sell non-renewable natural resources deal with it. It has to be said that there are opportunities to make use more effective. This is what these changes are primarily intended to achieve. If it is an asset that we all share, then it must be used effectively. This is certainly encouraged by environmental charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U272	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U273	Thank you. There is one not quite correct myth that, in the case of construction assets, for example, the share of environmental charges in the final price is already very high. That's not true. The analysis says that the share of environmental charges in the final price of construction assets increases by 1 to 2% the change introduced by the government regulation. The notion that this is tens of percentages is not correct. Once again, the changes introduced by the government regulation (which is not part of this draft) are based on the thresholds laid down by law. The Riigikogu gave these limits in advance in 2009 and they are based on them. In the case of construction assets, the use must also be more effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U274	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U275	Thank you. Dear Minister, We have repeatedly held this debate and asked for these analyses with representatives of the Ministry of the Environment in the Commission. In fact, the Ministry of the Environment promised that this bill would not move forward until these analyses arrived. But my question is a little bit different. The Government of the Republic has agreed with the social partners that environmental charges will be in place until 2015. Companies have taken into account certain levels of environmental charges when making their investment plans. Now, however, the government is starting to break these agreements and has put a lot of companies in a difficult position. How do you comment on whether it falls under 'Good Practice in Government Lawmaking'?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U276	Thank you. Once again, the government has decided on the limits set by law. The Riigikogu has established by law the rate at which one or another mineral mining right may or may be remunerated. These statutory rates are, of course, also known to all companies. That's what the government's been up to. It is certainly no surprise that the political choice of a government is less to tax work-related income and more to tax pollution, the use of natural resources. This is known to businesses as well as to everyone at large. But once again, in the case of specific rates, the government has based itself on the upper and lower limits of the current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U277	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U278	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I have almost the same question. Do you not think that such a sharp rise in the ceiling on resource charges will give businessmen (I am thinking of those dealing with mineral resources in particular) a signal that tax stability in Estonia is disrupted and making long-term investments will increase business risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U279	Thank you. If the Riigikogu has established limits by law and the government is operating within these borders, I do not think that this would be unexpected in any way. The government can only rely on the frameworks that Parliament has foreseen by law. Once again, the rates introduced by the law since 2009 are publicly known to everyone. The government did not in any way exceed these rates by way of a regulation in October. On the contrary, we are very, very far away from the legal ceilings for a number of mineral resources. Even after an increase of 20% per year, most mineral resources are in a situation where we are not even close to the ceiling that Parliament has given us. Such a very bitter reaction may be humanly understandable, but the limits prescribed by law have also been known to all entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U280	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U281	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns this human response. You claim that the current increase in fees is an expression of the government's long-term policy. I certainly support the polluter-pays principle, too. However, this human response is clearly due to the fact that another increase has started to be said in the context of the current state budget procedure, just as the use of special fuel in mines was abolished last year, precisely in the context of the budgetary procedure. Hence my question: when it comes to long-term government plans, why did the new Minister for the Environment not come up with a long-term view of how these fees should be raised, or why has this increase not been postponed by a year, so that entrepreneurs can see that this is a long-term plan rather than patching up budget holes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U282	Thank you. I would first of all like to thank you for supporting this principle that it is reasonable to tax the use of natural resources and pollution of the environment and to pay for it. You asked why we did not come up with the same bill last year. The 20% increase in environmental charges also took place in 2012, i.e. this year. I don't know what else to say. I would like to stress once again that the rates in force in the law have not been exceeded in any way by a government regulation. We are far from the limits that Parliament has given to the government. This is not an extraordinary step, on the contrary, the policy that companies are directed to use their natural resources sustainably and reduce their waste is well known. I know that support for this principle, which you yourself supported, has been very strong in Parliament throughout the ages.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U283	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U284	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! This question was raised in the Commission, and I would also like to ask how the increase in environmental charges will affect the price. I will give just two examples. One example relates to oil shale. It has been discussed how the price of heat will grow, because two large cities, Kohtla-Järve and Narva, are involved in the so-called central heating. Secondly, there's talk of drinking water, you were talking about mineral water. How does this affect their price? The price difference between imported water and water currently produced in Estonia is very low on the market. Has this effect been taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U285	Thank you. It was such a subtle question that I might have to decipher it a little bit. At the end of the question there was a reference to the taxation of the final product. I assume that the issue concerned, in particular, the introduction of additional final taxation on oil shale products, namely the so-called royalty. When the government was formed, it was agreed that no new taxes would be introduced. This is also the case with royalty. On the initiative of the Ministry of Finance, we have also analysed the possibilities of introducing the same royalty in Estonia or, let us say, its justification. But when we talk about oil shale, it is possible to value oil shale in a uniform and transparent way through the payment of the mining right, and it is also possible for the country to make a profit from this valuable mineral resource. So this change, which means an increase of 20% per year in the oil shale resource fee, is a clear signal that this is the path the government thinks is right. Any imposition of additional taxes is not a reasonable alternative.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U286	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In introducing the draft, you said in the introduction that the environment must be preserved and, if natural resources are used, it must be taxed. I care about that, too, great idea. The Commission meeting, which unfortunately did not have you, stressed that these analyses existed, but I, as a member of the Commission, have not seen these analyses. As a result, it was difficult for me to make decisions. I imagine that these analyses are about socio-economic and also regional impact, but unfortunately I have not seen them. When we speak of examples in the democratic procedure of draft laws, it is striking that a great deal of partners are being used in this work in our neighbouring countries. We have the Association of Estonian Mining Industries Enterprises. Have they also made their point, and are they aware of this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U288	Thank you. Now there are two things that have gotten mixed up. One thing is the draft, which we should be debating here at the moment, and which is nothing to do with the Association of Estonian Mining Industry Enterprises, which you mentioned. The second thing is the regulation that the government issued at the beginning of October and which, once again, I will emphasise, is based on the limits laid down in the law. When it comes to whether the Association of Estonian Mining Industries Enterprises has been aware of this issue, I assume that just as all the other companies operating in Estonia are aware of the laws in force in Estonia and the impact of the laws on their activities, this association has also known all this. On a specific government regulation, I previously gave the Union information that a government regulation would take this form. But once again, there are no new rates in the regulation that were not previously stated in the law. The government regulation is based directly on a law adopted by Parliament which has been in force since 2009.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U289	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U290	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Looking at the draft, it can be said that the environmental side has been well worked out here and that a table has also been drawn up which this change would mean economically. But my soul still remains scratched by what has been very clearly stated by the Estonian Association of Construction Materials Producers, that the Estonian state has done three times in the last five years an increase in resource taxes programme, and now we are changing it for the third time in five years. What do we say to these producers, why do we do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U291	Thank you. When it comes to building resources, there is a clear consideration of the need to make more efficient use of resources and, once again, to motivate companies to re-use more by means of economic measures imposed by the state and, certainly, to make more use of the waste generated by mining. Again, when it comes to price effects, the price of the mining right for construction assets currently accounts for 6 to 8% of the price of limestone. The increase in charges in turn increases the share of environmental charges in the sales price of construction assets, as I said earlier, by 1 to 2%. That's the effect we're talking about. But, of course, there are entrepreneurs who will certainly protest and think that if there were any chance of not paying environmental charges, life would still be particularly good. I am not in favour of this approach. In the case of construction and mineral resources at all, we are not talking about companies using their own property. It is state property, it is the common property of all taxpayers, and the state must direct businesses to make the most of it and make the most of it. I think that environmental charges are one very sensible and effective way of doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U292	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U293	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The Committee on the Environment, as we know, does not support this draft and asks that it be rejected. Consequently, I have a question: does the Committee on the Environment not trust the Minister for the Environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U294	Thank you. I have very good cooperation with the Committee on the Environment and I respect those who are members of the Committee on the Environment. I hope that some of the questions that were not immediately answered in the Commission have had the opportunity to answer today. I also hope that those members of the Commission who at the Commission meeting had not yet quite clarified whether or not to give their support to the draft have now thought through it and agree that the draft law, which deals only with the increase in the levy for the deposit of a substance next year, is reasonable in all respects and not only reasonable, but also gives the very necessary signal that the substance must be re-used more. The heaping of the arena mountain is a waste of this resource.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U295	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-24_U296	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I read in the explanatory memorandum that, as regards the fees for water pumped out of mines and careers, the aim is to achieve a level close to that of other charges for groundwater and surface water. Does this mean that the same environmental charge will soon have to be paid for the water that is in the quarry or in the mine and the water that comes into our houses?
