ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the session of the third working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Speaking chair Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee decided at its meeting today to initiate the Act amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance. The draft ensures the proper continuation of the activities of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund in a situation where the highest body of the fund has become indecisive. To this end, the draft amends the procedure for taking decisions falling within the competence of the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund by giving the Government of the Republic the right and the obligation to adopt decisions which are essential for the continuation of the activities of the Unemployment Insurance Fund in the final stages in relation to the discharge of the budget of the Fund and the office of the members of the Management Board of the Fund. The secondary decision-making power of the Government arises only in a situation where the Treasury Board itself has not taken decisions in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U3	Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of five of my fellow Members, I will refer the matter to the Minister for Finance. This concerns the specific labelling of liquid fuel. The Government Union has planned to amend the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel in two stages. By approving bill 39 the use of specially labelled liquid fuel for stationary engines and mining, forestry and construction works was discontinued at the beginning of last summer. The amendment entered into force on 1 January this year. The second phase, according to the Minister of Finance, was to provide for the possibility to implement support schemes or direct aid instead of the use of preferential fuel in the areas of rail transport of passengers and goods, shipping, heat and electricity production and agriculture. This change in the system was planned for the autumn of 2011 and was also due to enter into force at the beginning of this year. Unfortunately, the reform of the special-marked system of fuel tax differences has stuck, and in this connection we have three sad questions for the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U5	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U6	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address the question on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group to Mr Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. Its theme is the transit corridor for organised crime in Estonia as Russia. We all remember that, at the end of last year, Äripäev wrote that one unsolved case began to split up in spring 2007. On the Estonian-Russian border, one citizen was skipped with millions of euros, and the largest known case of money laundering involving Estonia and reaching the court in Bulgaria began to branch out. According to the findings of the investigation, criminals cashed nearly EUR 28 million through the bank over several years. The money was sent abroad by bank transfers, but cash was already brought back to St Petersburg across the Estonian border. Äripäev has written that a bona fide currency and payment company AS Tavid was used to receive cash in Estonia, as well as accounts at Sampo Pank. And also through Äripäev we learned that the criminal investigation into this suspicion of money laundering ended last December in Estonia. State Attorney Steven-Hristo Evestus stated that, in cooperation with foreign countries, crimes that were the source of the funds were not detected and that no signs of other crimes were found in Estonia. In other words, Estonian researchers failed to identify the criminal origin of the money. For the sake of clarity, the members of our group have five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U7	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and two inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Defence Mart Laar. Secondly, good fellows, in view of the fact that tomorrow, 27 January, the session of the ELO Youth Parliament will take place in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, I ask you to bring the necessary documents from your desks and drawers. Now, let's go through the presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 18 members of the Riigikogu are absent. There is also a clarification on today's agenda: the President of the Committee, Rait Maruste, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the debate on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U8	The first item is proposal 13 by the Chancellor of Justice: taking into account the principle of legitimate expectations when the Estonian citizen's identity document is revoked if the administrative body has mistakenly defined the person as an Estonian citizen. Before we go to the presentations, let me briefly introduce the procedure. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice has a presentation for up to 20 minutes, followed by a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. After that there will be a round of negotiations where all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor. Once the negotiations have been concluded, the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. I now ask for a presentation by Chancellor of Justice of the Riigikogu Chair, Indrek Tederi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This proposal, with a long complex name, concerns people whose competent administrative body has defined Estonia as a citizen when issuing them documents proving Estonian citizenship. However, as a result of the inspection that took place years later, it has been established that these people have not actually acquired Estonian citizenship by birth or naturalisation. Therefore, the issue of the identity documents of an Estonian citizen is initially unjustified for them. As a result of issuing the identity documents of an Estonian citizen, these people have for more than ten years considered themselves an Estonian citizen, have exercised their civil rights and have fulfilled their civic obligations. I would point out that the proposal concerns only those people who have acted in good faith when applying for the identity documents of an Estonian citizen. This means that people themselves have not knowingly provided false information or forged documents. As a result of the analysis carried out over about a year, I found that the Citizenship Act is contrary to the principle of legitimate expectation arising from § 10 of the Constitution and to the fundamental right of equality resulting from § 12 (1). The Citizenship Act does not allow these people to be considered an Estonian citizen if the administrative body mistakenly defined them as Estonian citizens on the basis of the current Citizenship Act, which entered into force on 1 April 1995. Let me briefly explain in a few words the content of these principles of the Constitution. In accordance with the principle of legitimate expectations, everyone must have the opportunity to shape their lives in a reasonable expectation that the rights and obligations conferred on them by the legal order will remain stable. The Supreme Court has found in the formalisation of this fundamental right that a person must be able to rely on the principle of legitimate expectation even if the initial administrative act which favours him or her was essentially unlawful, but in such a case the reasons for the illegality of an administrative act and the public interest affected by the offence must be considered, on the other hand, the reasonable legitimate expectation of the person that the favourable administrative act issued against him or her will remain valid. The principles of the decision to consider are currently defined in the Administrative Procedure Act. There has been a problem in dealing with this issue as to why the administrative body has not taken into account the general principles of their law already in the proceedings for the annulment of documents. As a result of the procedure carried out on the basis of the applications submitted to me, I took the view that the officials of the Police and Border Guard Board acted in accordance with the applicable law. I shall explain that, in accordance with § 8 (5) of the Constitution, the conditions for obtaining citizenship are defined by the Citizenship Act. According to § 104 of the Constitution, the Citizenship Act is a constitutional law, the adoption and amendment of which requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. The conditions for the acquisition of citizenship must therefore be laid down in the Citizenship Act. This means that the legal basis for reading persons as an Estonian citizen must be established by the Citizenship Act. Secondly, the corresponding provisions of the Identity Documents Act provide for the imperative obligation of the administrative body to withdraw documents unduly issued and to refuse to issue new documents if there is no legal basis for doing so. These rules therefore exclude the application of discretion. I note that the Riigikogu has dealt with a similar issue in the past. The Riigikogu adopted an amendment to the Citizenship Act in 2003. As a result, § 32 of the Citizenship Act provided for a legal basis to be considered an Estonian citizen by those persons who acted in good faith to whom the administrative body issued the Estonian passport on the basis of the legislation on citizenship in force until 31 March 1995. The purpose of the amendment was to protect the legitimate expectations of persons who were wrongly defined as Estonian citizens. However, as has been said, this option does not extend to persons who were mistakenly defined as citizens under the current Citizenship Act after 1 April 1995. Thus, the Citizenship Act provides for a time limit as regards the possibility of taking into account legitimate expectations. The Minister of the Interior informed me that this time limit was due to the fact that, after the restoration of the Republic of Estonia, the likelihood of state errors was high and was not desired to make the situation of persons worse. At the time, there were no databases on the basis of which it would have been possible to process the data systematically. The Minister of the Interior has previously confirmed that the proper examination of the circumstances of the person's membership of Estonian citizenship was ensured in the implementation of the current Citizenship Act. However, according to the information available to the public, this was not the case. According to the Police and Border Guard Board, in at least 87 cases, he has revoked the identity document of an Estonian citizen, which was originally issued to a bona fide applicant due to an incorrect administrative body. In accordance with the principles of the administrative procedure, the administrative body is obliged to identify the essential facts in the case before it and, if necessary, to collect the evidence on its own initiative. As announced by the Minister of the Interior, at the time of the implementation of the current Citizenship Act, the State had electronic databases and more administrative capacity than in the years immediately after the restoration of independence. Thus, the current Citizenship Act has made it easier to verify the circumstances of the application and the state's error in determining the person as an unjust citizen can be considered to be even greater than in the period immediately after regaining independence. The Minister of the Interior had not raised any other substantive grounds justifying the non-application of the principle of legitimate expectations under the Citizenship Act, which entered into force on 1 April 1995, in respect of persons who were mistakenly defined as Estonian citizens. I therefore consider that there is no legitimate purpose to distinguish, in applying the principles of legitimate expectations, from persons whose administrative body mistakenly defined Estonian citizens as Estonian citizens when issuing an Estonian identity document on the basis of the Citizenship Act, which entered into force on 1 April 1995. I would add that the number of people affected by this regulation is not so great that their reading as an Estonian citizen could undermine the aims of Estonian citizenship policy. In view of the above, I consider that the Citizenship Act and § 32 of the Citizenship Act are contrary to § 10 and § 12 (1) of the Constitution, in so far as it does not allow to consider whether it is justified to consider a person who was the recipient of Estonian citizenship and whose respective administrative body, when deciding to issue an Estonian citizen's passport, wrongly defined as an Estonian citizen on the basis of the Citizenship Act, which entered into force on 1 April 1995, or who was defined as a citizen by that person, unless it has been established that the Estonian citizen's passport was issued on the basis of a forged or false document or knowingly false information. I would point out that the situation of those whose identity documents have already been revoked must also be resolved in order to ensure effective enforcement of rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U10	Thank you, Chancellor. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In fact, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that every child has the right to a name and citizenship by birth. Do you not think that, in this case, our law is also wrong against this convention?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U12	Thank you for your question. This goes a little far from a particular subject, but I am still trying to answer. Yes, there is a corresponding provision in the Convention to rule out the nationality of children in particular. Here is the contentious question as to whether or not the simplified citizenship regime in force in Estonia under the age of 15 corresponds to it. As I have proposed in 2009, this could be even easier, but this is one subject of a separate debate and I am still in the middle of this debate. The issue of children's citizenship is the subject I have raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U13	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U14	Thank you. Dear waitress, In commenting on this case, the Minister of the Interior has said that the fact that the user of a passport issued without a legal basis has considered himself to be an Estonian citizen does not give any reason to consider this person an Estonian citizen. In the opinion of the Minister for the Interior, the document has simply been issued erroneously to these people and is not linked to citizenship there. In your case, you seem to say a little bit more: that by having issued a passport, these people are also defined as Estonian citizens. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U15	Thank you! In the public, yes, there is such a slightly simplified understanding that a passport is a form of citizenship. It's not like that. The passport is proof that the person has citizenship. The problem at the moment is that before 1 April 1995, some persons have established Estonian citizenship on the basis of the principle of legitimate expectation, in accordance with § 32 of the Citizenship Act. But it's not after that date. However, the principle is that individuals should not be divided into two groups without any legitimate reason. Everyone must be treated equally, that is the principle of the fundamental right to equality. And another thing: the principle of legitimate expectations applies to everyone. We cannot draw the line that is x day, then this citizenship law came into force and on this basis legitimate expectations do not apply to those who subsequently received the passport erroneously. The passport is still issued on the basis of nationality, and these persons, as I understand it, should all acquire citizenship on the basis of legitimate expectations with a certain small nuance. I have already said that administrative procedures today provide for a very wide margin of discretion. The administrative decision-making body shall have the right to be flexible in administration so that administration is humane. But in this case, it wasn't meant to be. In my proposal, it has just been stressed that such a decision of discretion should be taken. I admit that this basically means that those who were mistakenly granted an Estonian passport after 1 April 1995 will most likely receive almost everyone's citizenship as well. Because to say 'no', you have to give a lot of reasons. It is very difficult to justify why these people cannot gain from their citizenship if they have acted in good faith. I think that it is very reasonable to introduce such a consideration in this case, it would not be right to automatically read that the principle of legitimate expectations automatically creates citizenship. But when we come back to the essence of your question: in this case, citizenship would be based on the principle of legitimate expectation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U16	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Here's the question. If you read in detail your assessment of what is happening around citizenship, you can see that the Police and Border Guard Board has already cancelled nearly two and a half hundred documents since 2000. Of these, 90 are people who have not deliberately forged documents and have been caught. What is your assessment of the executive? If such a process has been going on for 10 years, should the executive power not have come up with such a legislative amendment before, rather than wait 10 or 11 years until you, Chancellor of Justice, find one statement on the surface that there is some kind of crap?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U18	Thank you! You can and must demand more from the executive, but we also know that any mistakes are human and that things are still moving slowly, too slowly. In principle, such matters could be resolved more quickly. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U19	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Some time ago, when a discussion on the same subject arose, an important question arose: what is the primary issue, whether the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Estonia has ratified, or the local law that currently exists. How can you explain this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U21	It's a very broad subject. So far, lawyers are largely of the opinion that there is no fundamental right for a person to have naturalisation citizenship. At the same time, pressure from human rights activists in the world has tended to do so. International documents, however, provide, in particular, for the exclusion of non-nationality and, at present, it is mostly citizenship that is now considered to be "citizenship" - how can we now put it figuratively? just as a place of last refuge. This means that the state defines these rules itself. However, there is a tendency to adopt certain principles in international acts. It's a variable area, but it's changing slowly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U22	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice! I have a question: how many people are specifically affected by this change? And the second small question is: Is it known what the reason why citizenship has been wrongly given to a person?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U24	Mistakes as to why a passport was wrongly issued by the administrative body may vary greatly. But the number of people involved, as I said, was 87, or not very large, according to the Police and Border Guard Board. Inevitably, errors occur in each system, even in systems where there should be no error. But point one: this number doesn't really affect us. And in people's case, it's always possible to misread some kind of data or whatever. In this case, it is important that it is not established that a particular person has supplied false information, that something has been forged. That's point two.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U25	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U26	Thank you. Dear waitress, In answer to Mr Efendijev's question, you said, 'I am about to refer to your words', that, despite the spread of new thinking, there is, however, a common understanding that granting or not granting citizenship is a sovereign right of states to establish such principles and provisions. You called it the last refuge of sovereignty. Can you conclude from this that, in your view, if these new thinking now becomes more widespread than so far, national sovereignty as such will cease to exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U27	This is a very good legal issue that lawyers have been discussing for years. Where does the limit of national law end and the limit of international law begins? I don't know if it's moving that way or not. I simply pointed out that this is an object of discussion, and so far it has been found to be a sovereign right of a state, and it lays down rules in its constitution and the legislation resulting from it. How he says it is already a national issue. But how's the future going to be, I don't know. In fact, the issue of sovereignty arises in a number of contexts. It was such a figurative expression that I brought, it is not an official statement of any kind. There are no other connections to sovereignty anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U28	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your report and your answers. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice on Monday, i.e. A meeting on 23 January, to which the Chancellor of Justice himself and his advisor Kristiina Albi were invited. The Chancellor of Justice explained the content of his proposal. In addition, a written text of the Chancellor of Justice was also available for consultation, in which he explained the content of the proposal at length and in depth. The Constitutional Commission asked the Chancellor of Justice a number of questions. I do not need to go over all the reasons here again or explain them. The Chancellor of Justice highlighted two main principles of the Constitution, according to which the current procedure is likely to be contrary to the Constitution. These are, firstly, the principle of legitimate expectations and, secondly, the principle of equal treatment. The Chancellor of Justice pointed out that the current regulation is rigid. It provides that, following an error or error, the earlier decision will be automatically invalidated and the procedure for withdrawing Estonian citizenship and thereafter the passport will be initiated even after 10 or more years have passed since the original decision. Both ex-ante and ongoing ex-post controls are indispensable and necessary for administrative activities. But the mistakes and mistakes it reveals are twofold by nature. First, errors or errors caused by conscious and deliberate misrepresentation, i.e. deceiving the state. Secondly, errors caused by an official's mistake. A person has provided information in good faith and honestly, and there is no doubt that a person has behaved in bad faith or misbehaved. Each case is unique and it is therefore justified to recommend that the administrative body should have the right to a case-by-case approach through discretion. Certainly, a person who has acted in good faith and integrity should not suffer because of a mistake or error in the state. The Commission therefore considered that the arguments put forward by the Chancellor of Justice were well founded and that its proposal deserves to be supported. In addition, the Commission pointed out that a particular case or cases appeared to have a problem in addition to the law in its application. As is well known, the law, including the right to citizenship, must be interpreted and applied in the context of the Constitution, i.e. in this case, the rules must be interpreted in accordance with the principle of legitimate expectations and equal treatment of the Constitution. This is not the case here. In sum, therefore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously supported the Chancellor of Justice's proposal and wishes to initiate proceedings in order to correct the errors that have become apparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U30	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U31	Thank you. Dear waitress, As we know, the Social Democrats have issued a draft amendment to the procedure of the Riigikogu. As Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, you have certainly been familiar with this. Do you think this could be the basis for further work to address these shortcomings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U32	Now and here we are talking about the specific proposal of the Chancellor of Justice and its handling. Although these two areas are interrelated, I a priori do not rule out that the proposal made by the Social Democratic Party has weight and meaning in this context. But right now, these are two different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U33	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Have you, perhaps, discussed in the Commission how the damage caused to people by so-called 'ex-post' damage could be compensated? The figures of the Chancellor of Justice are not quite exhaustive either. According to the latest data, I know that 109 people lost their citizenship, one in three being a minor child. Surrender isn't that easy. If, in the meantime, a person has taken the citizenship of another country for example, he or she must give it up first, etc. It's a time-consuming process, like we said.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U35	Thank you. Of course, this is a difficult and difficult situation for people, but we cannot discuss it in this Chamber right now. If we support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, this will be followed by corrections to the legal regulation, including how to deal with these specific cases and what steps the state should take to correct or compensate its mistake or error. But it'll all come later and then.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U36	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question lies outside the Commission's debate, but I hope that your experience at international level will provide an opportunity to respond. In a way, I will repeat the second half of the previous question. As Estonia has ratified the UN Convention and adopted these declaratory points, it has also assumed commitments. It is written that all the governments of all countries that have ratified this Convention must implement, to the maximum extent possible, all these declarative points. How do you rate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U38	Thank you. You didn't explain what kind of convention you're talking about. Child Services? The Chancellor of Justice has already explained this in part. Indeed, when we talk about the relationship between international law and national law, there are two somewhat contradictory tendencies. On the one hand, countries still have a recognised right to regulate who their citizens are. Countries determine these rules themselves. At the same time, there are a number of acts of international law, starting with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the relevant acts on the reduction of citizenship, etc., which are under pressure to eradicate citizenshiplessness in countries or to grant citizenship under other conditions than those defined by the States. It's kind of a evolutionary process. So far, at least the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law of the Court have been such that citizenship is not a fundamental right under the Convention and the state itself determines who is its citizen and who is not. However, of course, the state cannot ignore the fact that, for example, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as other acts of this kind, contain a number of recommendations. So it is to find a reasonable balance according to the circumstances and developments of the countries themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U39	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Evgeni Ossinovski, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group thanks the Chancellor of Justice for the work he has done and supports, of course, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to initiate an amendment to the Citizenship Act in order to bring the law into line with the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice knows that our group member Jaak Allik drew attention to this problem already in September, and our group has, before the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, also presented a draft 164 to this effect to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. It is quite clear that if a person has been issued with a passport more than ten years ago, for which a person has not given false information or forged documents, and this passport has been updated several times, this person has every reason to consider himself an Estonian citizen and a legitimate expectation that on a nice day there will be no notification from the Citizenship and Migration Department that he will immediately remain an illegal person without the right to live and work in his own country. We know that in nearly a hundred cases, however, the notifications have come and the corresponding documents have been taken away. In doing so, it is very condescending for the Minister of the Interior to say that the problem is not big, that he should apply for a residence permit and live happily. In addition to the relatively severe emotional experiences caused by such claims, as well as the change in legal status, which deprives a person of a lot of rights, such claims cause purely pragmatic problems. Namely, a person may not meet the conditions of a long-term resident, he or she lives in another European Union country or has no legal income in Estonia, he or she may work in a public service office which requires citizenship, may have land in border areas and may have a child who is once again a fake citizen at birth. In a democratic country, it is only possible that, if a country has made a mistake, it itself must find a way to resolve the situation in a favourable way. I regret to say that the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia has had a different opinion on this issue for a long time. In his reply to the Chancellor of Justice last summer, the Minister of the Interior admitted that the situation had caused serious consequences for the people, but did not consider it necessary to initiate a legislative amendment in order to avoid such serious consequences in the future and to remedy the harm to those against whom the State has acted unfairly, simply saying that there is nothing to be done. For example, in his reply to Mr Allik's letter of 12 September, the Minister of the Interior says that there is nothing to be done with the people who approached Mr Allik. I quote: 'The fact that the user of a passport issued without a legal basis has considered himself to be an Estonian citizen is not the basis for reading a person as an Estonian citizen. These persons have never acquired Estonian citizenship by birth and have no legal basis for using the identity documents of an Estonian citizen. ' I strongly recommend that the Minister of the Interior examine the statements of my citizenship documents as well, perhaps the follow-up will explain that I am not an Estonian citizen either. In any case, it would be quite interesting to see Mr. Onions take away my voting card. In addition to the fact that the Ministry of the Interior did not send any signal about the amendment of the law for at least half a year, the Minister of the Interior said at the time that it was not only impossible to designate these persons as Estonian citizens, but there is also no possibility in the Citizenship and Migration Department to suspend the procedure for the revocation of the identity documents of these Estonian citizens. Because the fact that a person is not guilty of anything and that the administrative act of annulment has extremely serious negative consequences for a person does not give rise to the suspension of the proceedings for revocation of a person's document. When the matter finally got the public's attention, the Minister accepted the amendment. Recently, the Ministry of the Interior also announced that it is still possible to suspend the procedure for the withdrawal of documents, which was now finally done. It is not normal that the problem, which the Ministry knows exists for a long time, will only be resolved if the press attacks the Minister's political credit and the vote of the next election. With regard to the residence permit system, too, it was only after the resignation of the Minister of the Interior came up, although the weaknesses of the system were known at least six months earlier. For the citizen, however, this means that serious concerns are often left unsolved on the pretext that nothing can be done, and the law does not allow. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U41	Please, two more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U42	There are certainly more and more such loopholes and inaccuracies, but unfortunately we as legislators can only remedy them once that information reaches us. In this case, we had to wait months for the Chancellor of Justice's position, although the Ministry would have been able to react much more operationally. It is not just a question of constitutionality, but of one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of a democratic state, or of the orientation of a person. I believe that everyone here agrees with me, which gives me the hope that at least this problem will now be a sensible solution and that the country's petty careless behaviour will be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U43	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U44	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this debate is taking place in this Chamber today. I think it's a little job win for all of us. But the first one to be thanked here is actually the Estonian media. Our journalists were the ones who picked up my correspondence, now the infamous correspondence with Ken-Marti Vaher, first Eesti Ekspress, then Postimees, then came after Eesti Päevaleht and Den za Dnjom and everything else. I have no doubt, however, that if the media had not lifted it up, this issue would not have been resolved so quickly at all. So this is where I, as a former journalist, feel really proud that our media is still the watchdog of democracy, at least sometimes. It makes me very sad that our Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaheri, was at least very black and white at first. This letter, which I received in response to my worrying letter, where this situation was described, was very resolute. That dura lex, sed lex, can't help it, they're missing out, and what's going on here, there's no reason for discussion. I myself believe that the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia could have more empathy than average. It's just because they're people, and in this case they're children. It is a pity that our officials, as Mr Anvelt and others have pointed out here, have not pointed out in time to the legislator that such practice exists at all. And it is very unfortunate that at some point in time the officials informed the media that the girl from whom the whole thing began also had Russian citizenship in order to justify her behaviour. This information was probably leaked in order to change the mood in a society that has not been able to do so. This is very nice because, in fact, as we all know, a person who is an Estonian citizen at birth can have double citizenship, whether Russian, Chinese or any other country where it is not prohibited. We must congratulate President Ilves, who spoke very quickly on this matter, as well as Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder. Once again, it is very good that things are developing in this direction. But I personally, and I think that not only am I missing a few things. It is not clear who must, or who must, it is clear, but who apologizes to the people who have been subjected to such injustices. With regard to the figures, I have already said that, unfortunately, Mr Teder's figures are not quite adequate, they are a little older than the ones I have. Today 109 people have been deprived of documents. I think one in three is a child. I think so because you can say for last year that every third one is a minor. The answer to the question of how many children there are, what citizenship people have chosen, we will only get on 30 January if Mr Vaher answers my next request. As I said to Mr Marus when I asked him a question, it is not so easy that we give them back their citizenship. Surrender is such a tricky thing, especially when a person already has the nationality of another country and has to give it up. Whether he even wants it is a question of his own. So, unfortunately, we have only taken the first step and this step is not very big. But that's the thing. I would also like to remind you that our party has also issued a draft law amending the Citizenship Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which also provides for the resolution of this problem. I hope that you will support it when this provision arrives in this Chamber, because with it we will really do one good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U45	Thank you. I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U46	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can understand, the topic of citizenship has always been close to the politicians of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, and the concern that citizenship policy preserves the current features in its fundamentals is important. Personally, I am very pleased that this debate has reached such a proper focus. Indeed, things can be done by law. If the law does not allow it, we must look at whether the situation remains as it is, it is acceptable, or whether the law needs to be amended. For the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, this approach is very acceptable, that the grounds for obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia remain the same. These include citizenship at birth, citizenship at naturalization and a little-a-little for special services and do not include the basis for a 'citizenship officer error'. It is very right to approach it as a point of view. We agree with the Chancellor of Justice that consideration in most cases leads to people regaining their citizenship if they so wish. Should this debate go deeper in any way, and within the framework of what laws? I'm sure the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can handle this debate. But first, you have to give it a chance to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U47	Thank you very much. Riigikogu speech chair Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U48	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna take a chance on a little remark, I'm sure I don't want any extra time. I have been most disturbed by the fact that our executive power is apathetic when we follow this whole process. The executive power is apathetic and does not want to behave in any way according to the Estonian proverb 'Where you see the error, come and help! '. Clearly, legislation cannot be perfect in any country. In the process of implementing the law, it may appear that there are shortcomings in the law. This same knowledge of the shortcomings of the law can mostly only come from the executive authorities, as they say, from below. Somehow, it gets here directly, but the executives are exposed to the shortcomings of the law in their day-to-day work. That is why I am most at risk of having seen this problem for nearly ten years. We are making big press releases and we are talking about how our ministers, or whoever, will deliver citizenship certificates to new Estonian citizens. At the same time, however, we are wasting the same money for popularising our country and giving priority to our citizenship by taking away this citizenship from dozens and dozens of people. They have received this citizenship in good faith, as you know, some may even have been in the military. Nor do we take into account that these dozens of people are always still dozens of relatives, acquaintances, and close relatives. And then we wonder why one part of Estonia wants to live in another information room all the time. The double standards of executive power show that, when executive power came into contact with the scandal on residence permits and we understood that there are shortcomings in the law, even though I am not sure of it, often it has been a matter of the initiative to enforce the law and of complying with the principles of investigation laid down in this very discretion, the executive power reported very quickly before Parliament and before the public that legislative changes have been initiated, urgent steps have been taken, because this is the case for their kitchen side. When it comes to citizens, we have actually been looking for the right way in the dark for ten years. Finally, I would like to say that if we have read and adopted a number of legislative changes here recently, which concern reforms in a number of areas, including the Ministry of the Interior, either to put together, to add, to centralise, then there has actually been no substantive progress in all of this. The executive will still stand still, both in discretion and in such a departure from the pulpit, and this will certainly remove the people from the country as well. So I hope that this message will reach many thousands of civil servants who will understand that the country will generally be better if they too take a more creative and forward-looking view of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-26_U49	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal and to bring the Citizenship Act into line with the Constitution. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 13, which is to bring the Citizenship Act into line with the Constitution. Who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal? Please take a stand and vote. There are 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, I propose to the Constitutional Committee, in accordance with § 152 of the Home and Working Procedures Act, to initiate a draft to bring the Citizenship Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Good colleagues, that's all we have on the agenda. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.55 a.m.
