ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 14th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I call on the speaker, the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two drafts today. First, the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Acceptance to increase the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund'. The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the group, I am going to refer the question to the Minister for Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool. The subject of the inquiry is the closure of Jõgeva schools. We know that the reform of the school network has raised questions and caused a great deal of confusion. So is Jõgeva County and Jõgeva City. Currently, two schools with very long traditions work in Jõgeva City. At the meeting of the Jõgeva Council held on 26 April, the city of Jõgeva's education development plan for 2012 was adopted, one of the objectives of which is to separate upper secondary school from primary school by creating a state secondary school with an academic focus, which belongs to the city and together with the Ministry of Education and Research. However, if you look at the whole county's school network more widely, it becomes clear that the upper secondary school in Jõgeva can remain the only upper secondary school in the whole county. The analysis of the school network of Jõgeva County, prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research, and the starting points for the development of one or two secondary schools with a progymnasium, say that the county may remain. Thus, the formation of a state secondary school may mean the closure of the other upper secondary schools in the county. We therefore have a number of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Ladies and gentlemen, now the announcements. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them: the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu. a Draft of the Riigikogu decision "Appointing the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of recognized experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting," submitted on 2 May, whose commission is the Committee on Culture; Riigikogu's Finance Committee. a draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels, initiated on 3 May, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 3 May, Estonia presented its views on the European Union initiatives concerning the exercise of the right to collective action in the context of freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services and the posting of workers in connection with the provision of services, the European Union Affairs Commission and has appointed the Social Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the European Union initiatives. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 17 May at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. Let's get this week's agenda approved. May I have your attention, please? The Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed to exclude 14th working week from the agenda for agenda item No 1 of Thursday, 10 May, which is the second processing of the law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws not announced by the President of the Republic. Pursuant to § 54 (3) of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, following the announcement of the agenda, it may be supplemented only if no political group opposes it. Please, Mr Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U6	Thank you. The IRL Group discussed the Centre Party proposal and considers it a good law that we can process this week and put it to a final vote. We are opposed to this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U7	Thank you very much. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of approving the agenda, 35 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U8	Let's start processing Monday's agenda items. Answering questions begins. The first question is the members of the Riigikogu Aadu Musta, Inara Luigas, Kadri Simson, Kalev Kallo, Peeter Võsa, Rainer Vakra and Viktor Vassilyev on 20 March. a request for information on Pärnu train traffic and Rail Baltic project. I would like to ask my colleague Kadri Samson of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry concerning train traffic in Pärnu and the Rail Baltic project was handed over to the Riigikogu Hall a month and a half ago, on 20 March. So if we are now in a situation where the local newspaper Pärnu Postimees says that interest in the Pärnu railway station is delayed because the railway station building has just been demolished last week, then in fact...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U10	I'm sorry! Please, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very large buzz in the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U11	... arrive at enquiries sometimes to answer simply too late. The railway station building has been demolished and the limes are still in such a position that they have nowhere to wait for the train. Those who are more familiar with Pärnu's circumstances know that currently the train connection between Pärnu and Tallinn is not working well. It is slow and thin and cannot compete with road transport. It takes three hours to travel by train to Tallinn. The situation is asked to be accepted until the Rail Baltic project is implemented, which should quickly connect Tallinn not only to Pärnu but also to the capitals of the southern states. However, as long as the Rail Baltic project has not reached anywhere, Estonia's fourth largest city in Pärnu is in such a situation that there has not been a functioning station building in this city since 2003. No new building is planned either, as it is said that the railway station building serving Rail Baltic has not yet been planned. The former railway station building, which was just demolished, was located on the 116 Riga highway property where AS Saare Olerex wishes to build a fuel station. Several non-profit organisations tried to stop the dismantling, but they were told that they did not even have the right to challenge it in court. The demolition was not contested by the City Government of Pärnu either. Now that a petrol filling station starts to rise in place of the station so far, the local people are concerned because, if the Rail Baltic line is enlarged, this plot will clearly remain in the rail protection zone. There has not been an analysis of how the location of a fuel filling station in the railway protection zone meets the safety requirements, and it is not clear where a future plot will be booked, where the next railway station should appear, where passengers can wait for a train in the future. Consequently, the questioners have five questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U12	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U13	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Who needs to ensure decent conditions for Pärnu city and county residents and visitors to Pärnu city to travel by rail, and why hasn't this been done? " As the questioners pointed out, diesel trains like those in Estonia are currently going to Pärnu. It's no secret these trains are old. The question was why nothing has been done to make rail travel more comfortable. It's pretty easy to answer. A lot has been done and the results will soon be visible. By 2014, all passenger trains in use in Estonia, both diesel and electric, have been replaced by new passenger trains. The acquisition of new passenger trains has been a long process that has not been possible in one or two years. We have now reached the phase that the first new train should reach Estonia for testing this year and then all other trains will arrive, as agreed in the delivery schedule. The problem with the railway leading to Pärnu is that if you look at the map, you can see that the railway that was built never goes down the shortest route. The length of the railway from Tallinn to Pärnu is approximately 145 kilometres. It is true that the railway infrastructure between Lelle and Pärnu is in a rather poor condition, given the possible speed of this section. In the last five years, the Estonian state has devoted considerable amounts to improving railway infrastructure. We have also set up a logical sequence to clean up the railway infrastructure to bring speed to at least 120 kilometres per hour, which is the minimum speed. The section of Türi.Viljandi, which was owned by the private company Southwestern Railway, was even worse than the Pärnu line. Now we've fixed this section of the railroad. As far as the section between Lelle and Pärnu is concerned, there is now a point of consideration as to whether, for the next budget period of the European Union in 2014-20, the money should also be allocated to a significant improvement of this section, as has been done in the Türi-Viljandi section, in order to ensure better operation of passenger train traffic until Rail Baltic is completed. Whether to make this investment decision depends on economic calculations, as well as on Rail Baltic developments. That question is currently open. If we were to invest money there in the next period without careful consideration, and the development of Rail Baltic would be planned, we would invest in Tallinn to bring the train connection of Pärnu to today's level, given its potential for increased passenger numbers and passenger numbers. The key issue now is the social and socio-economic impact. I will not rule that out in itself, but we can give that answer, I think, in mid-2013, when that deadline expires. In particular, we are preparing a transport strategy up to 2020, but the prospects for transport are under review until 2030. I think that if there was no Rail Baltic project, the Pärnu section would have to be repaired. There will be an additional cost-effectiveness problem with the Rail Baltic project; we must take this into account. We are using not our own money, but taxpayers' money. The second question: Will the vibrations caused by the traffic of trains affect underground fuel tanks built near the railway and, therefore, these are dangerous installations? ' Since the exact Rail Baltic route has not yet been written off, it is difficult to tell whether the railroad is going to affect the underground fuel tanks that are being built by vibration. Since the exact railway route is clear from the planning process, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has also submitted a non-prohibited position to the Pärnu City Government, which is the main decision-maker here, as well as to the Pärnu County Government. The third question: "Is it true that no railway station is located on the Via Baltica Liivi highway section and there is currently no approved plan to determine the location of the new railway station to be built in Pärnu city in the future? " The construction of Via Baltica does not have to determine the location of the railway station; it should still be done in the course of the railway project. One way has been to establish a railway station at the Papiniiidu Bridge. Question 4: Do you think it is necessary and possible for the building of a passenger train station to perform the tasks of a former railway station building until the completion of the new passenger train station? ' That is not possible because the former station building has already been demolished. I would point out that the letter from the residents of Pärnu was sent to the city administration. The decision to dismantle is finally confirmed by the city or local government. I think that this decision should still be protected by the one who has given this demolition permit to the private owner. Question 5: "What steps has the Estonian state taken at the moment in the Rail Baltic project? " The last steps have been as follows. The government initiated the drafting of the county plan on 12 April to determine the location of the Rail Baltic railway corridor in the counties of Harju, Rapla and Pärnu. In order to comply with this government's order, the Ministry of the Interior has been entrusted with the task of supervising the county planning and strategic environmental assessments to be completed by 30 November 2015 at the latest. It's a long deadline, but based on our current knowledge, it's the best possible. Based on the government's organisation, Harju, Rapla and Pärnu County Elder have given their orders for strategic assessment of county planning and environmental impact in these counties. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is currently preparing a detailed task for the planning, with a deadline of 30 May, as well as a cooperation agreement between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Technical Surveillance Authority and Harju, Rapla and Pärnu County Elders, which lays down the rights and obligations of the parties in the preparation of three county plans. The deadline for the conclusion of the cooperation agreement is also now 30 May. At international level, coordination and cooperation have been achieved with Latvia and Lithuania, the main partner countries, which is probably more comprehensive than ever in the history of this project. There are three Baltic states and the Rail Baltic force connecting Poland, which aims to coordinate all the preparatory work related to the construction of the Rail Baltic railway in the short and long term. All partner countries have expressed their clear desire to move forward together with the preparatory work. Ultimately, the project has therefore gained a new impetus at international level. For the first time, everyone sees a realistic opportunity to make this project a reality. At international level, the aim is to agree common principles on which partner countries will base their planning process, thus ensuring a common starting position by the end of 2015. The preparatory work is also under way for the development, investment and subsequent operation of the Rail Baltic project by the governments of the three Baltic States or, if any government so wishes, the establishment of a joint venture between railway infrastructure companies operating so far. Whether or not we will be ready to set up a joint venture by the end of this year, it is still early to assess. Further studies, analyses and consultations will take place. This is what we want, but in the end it depends on the work and agreements of the authorities of the three Baltic States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U14	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Let's get started. My colleague Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I'm asking you about the other half of the question, Rail Baltic. I hope that this very necessary project will at some point become a reality in the form of a drive from Tallinn to Warsaw. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I can only ask you one question, but I will ask two questions at a time. If you can't answer both, just answer one. Well, there's been a lot of initial research. I believe you are best informed of them. I have read a feasibility study, according to which the train, when we are talking about a passenger train, should start leaving Tallinn every two hours to pay for it. My first question: is this the case and how real do you think it is? The second question is: how likely is the next stop after Tallinn Pärnu, or is the train stopped in Pärnu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U16	I'm sure the train will stop in Pärnu. As regards the direction of Tartu and Viljandi, the government has made its decision, which is definitely under discussion within Estonia. The government's position is perhaps based on the most in-depth study on the profitability of Rail Baltic. This has been done by AECOM, an international consultancy firm, and the final study report is also available online. Based on this study, we find it more realistic to think that this line will pay off when the route goes through Pärnu. This is more realistic than any other possible Riga route. The reason is very simple: the journey is a hundred kilometres longer when driving through Tartu. However, if it were to be added a hundred kilometres of infrastructure, this would essentially mean chapeling this project by looking at current estimates. Second, forecasting. The consultants have provided a standard for travel connections. A standard for travel connections, which certainly also reflects demand, means the frequency of journeys. This frequency means a train every two hours during the day. In this case, there is greater potential to work in this route over time and to increase the number of passengers. It is difficult to assess whether this is the case, but the theory of public transport gives the answer that this is generally the case. In other words, if the alternative were to have one train running a day, it would certainly not be as cost-effective as in a much tighter schedule. Whether this frequency will be finally two hours and to what extent the passenger projections taken as the basis for the initial cost-benefit calculations are true, we will certainly specify this at each of the next stages of the project. The main conclusion, which has led to greater optimism and which is reflected in the launch of preparatory work, is that international and, in my opinion, rather independent experts have assessed that, if the perspective of passenger and freight transport is assessed together and a certain amount of aid is used for investments, this project is economically viable given the different methods of evaluating transport projects. That's the bar we're finally going to have to cross.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U17	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U18	Thank you, Madam President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Last week, the headline in the media flashed that we were pulling Rail Baltic to St. Petersburg. How do you comment on this dynamic title? There's still a lot of people back there, I mean St. Petersburg. Can I have a little comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U19	Luckily, I didn't notice that headline in our passionate media picture. But if we analyse the potential market for Rail Baltic, northwest Russia is certainly a potential target market for both passenger and freight transport. Our interest is that this train would travel to Tallinn, not from anywhere else to St. Petersburg. This media specialist probably planned a tunnel under Lake Peipsi for this train, as it would be the most direct route. Our interest is still in Tallinn, but St Petersburg and its surroundings are certainly a potential market that will allow the future infrastructure to be used more economically.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U20	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U21	Thank you very much. I'm interested in Juhan Parts' personal position. Does the minister think that Rail Baltic is going to go through Pärnu? If he thinks that this is not going to be the case, do I understand that Minister Parts is in favour of the idea that Pärnu airport should be developed? The smooth arrival of Nordic spa customers in Pärnu should really interest the Minister of Economic Affairs, after all, is a significant economic indicator of 5200 beds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U22	Thank you. Personally, I do consider the creation of a modern rail connection to mainland Europe quite groundbreaking, both mentally and physically. We all realize that this is not just a simple business investment, but requires the efforts of all of us. I don't think anyone in this hall has any doubts about that. But to make this project concrete, to approach the project's equator and become irreversible, we still have a very long way to go. We have to make decisions in advance. One of these decisions was based on the fact that, as I said earlier, the road through Pärnu is a hundred kilometres shorter and is an important victory in terms of profitability. I'm not here to judge. For me, there is not even a question of whether there are any alternatives. The alternative would essentially mean an internal glitch for Estonia for this project, let's say. I wouldn't take it. As far as Pärnu airport is concerned, I have an agreement on this subject with Pärnu's active people. If you also belong to these people and show me any credible business plan that allows you to serve 100000 passengers a year, then Pärnu airport will certainly be developed as is Tartu or Kuressaare Airport. However, a convincing business plan that could serve 100000 passengers per year has not been presented. We would definitely cooperate if necessary. If the number of passengers was lower, we would probably make another investment so that once it was done, the Minister for Economic Affairs (whoever he is at the time) would be looked at and asked why no one is flying. That's the problem with the airport. The problem is not so much about making this investment, we have real experience of it, but the problem is whether we can prove that there are enough passengers to be able to cover at least our operational costs. Only then will it make sense to make this investment. In contrast, if we look at the size of Estonia and take into account the density of the population, we see that there are quite a few airports, although we feel that they can be counted on the fingers of one hand. But this is the kind of Estonia we live in, and this is the kind of Estonia we like.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U23	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I'm going back to the Lelle-Pärnu section on the current route. You said the question of reconstruction was open. But as we know, we are moving fast and firmly towards Rail Baltic, and all the signs say Rail Baltic is coming. In this light, how likely is the scenario that two railway sections will go to Pärnu: Rail Baltic and the reconstructed railway on its current route?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U25	I also said in my reply that this question is entirely justified. I think that should be considered. In order for the decision to be justified, we will make relatively simple but essential cost-benefit calculations for the reconstruction of the existing route to find out whether it is worth investing in it for ten years (I do not want to say what amount now, but it is quite decent) or not, but simply hope that in ten years there will be a different quality rail connection between Tallinn and Pärnu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U26	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You said that in a few years, trains on the Estonian railway will be replaced. It is, in itself, very welcome that we will also be able to reach Europe by rail. But I was a little worried when you said that at the end of this year the first train will be coming to Estonia to be tested. What did you mean by testing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U28	This is a routine stage in the procurement of trains. Trains must still be tested on the infrastructure of each country. There is nothing special about it, a testing phase is necessary. A total of up to 40 trains are currently ordered, half are diesel trains and half are electric trains. Of course, the first trains must be tested so that they can all be used in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U29	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U30	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As we have heard from your answers, Rail Baltic has a lot of uncertainty in terms of deadlines. You also mentioned that you do not dare to give firm deadlines for the establishment of a joint venture by the authorities of three countries. But while the route is not determined here in Estonia, different developments are taking place with the countries along the railway line. For example, the same case in Pärnu when a gas station appears to replace a railway station, although the Ministry has expressed its opposition. Can you tell us when to reach a detailed plan in Estonia, where the railway route is defined? What's it behind? Is it hindered by poor contact between the ministry and counties? What's the rush to get the railway line in place? What is your cooperation here with local governments and rural governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U31	Rail Baltic's theme plan is going pretty well, considering when we started it. The theme plan has been initiated. The final date for the thematic planning is 2015. This time seems to be very long, but the work must be very thorough, its substance being the final location of the route and the environmental impact assessments. The path from Tallinn to the Estonian and Latvian borders must be taken into account. In addition, there is a preliminary project that solves a number of issues. Yes, it is right that there is currently no legal or legislative option to prohibit any activity around a hypothetical route within any radius. It's a reality. It's a new object, a new project. The Ministry of Economic Affairs can certainly express its interests in the processing of various detailed plans. The problem of the same railway station and the gas station shows that we can express our views. Whether the municipality considers them or not is in some ways a risk for the municipality and the developer. I didn't say the deadline was vague. I said that three transport ministers have agreed at the moment so that the establishment of the joint venture could be clarified by the end of this year. However, I predict that these joint venture negotiations will be much more complex in the near future. This is for the simple reason that this joint venture is a projection of the future joint business of the three Baltic governments for the next fifty years. This is not just a matter of papering, but in the process we have to decide on a lot of important issues, starting with management and financing. A number of other principles need to be decided in order to create a joint venture. It seems to me that in all three Baltic countries this planning process is well coordinated, thanks once again to the Task Force, which the three Baltic Transport Ministers have formed. The specific question is that the moment of the creation of this joint venture may also be a little later. But it's all a matter of discussion. We have a plan to involve consultants on international transport projects. I believe that in the autumn I will be able to speak more precisely about where we have reached with the negotiations and what issues are on the agenda. But the opinion of the Estonian Government has certainly been that creating a joint venture relatively quickly is a very sensible and serious step. This also requires financial investment. We'll see where we're going this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U32	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I have more remark, not a question. My colleague, Mr Kaljuvee, drew attention to a title pointing to the possibility of increasing the profitability of Rail Baltic. Recently, members of the Czech Parliament and business delegation visited Estonia. They support Rail Baltic because they see Rail Baltic as an opportunity to get other sea passes alongside Hamburg. In fact, they also indirectly support Rail Baltic's profitability calculation. I would like to add the question: how much has this project taken into account with the potential accompanying users that a single infrastructure element can bring with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U34	Thank you. I referred to a study that has been our starting point. This is a very serious study; it is not a traditional study by AECOM, an international consultancy firm. It takes into account the different indirect effects in terms of both passenger and freight demand. The right thing is that infrastructure of new quality creates a kind of new reality for the movement of people and goods. However, it is clear that these goods cannot come from some southern hemisphere, but that moving goods from point A to point B can still take place more or less in the area where we live. I'm sure Central Europe belongs here. If, for example, we look at our northern neighbours and our own trade towards Central Europe and also southern Europe, we see that this is quite remarkable. Of course, infrastructure always creates the possibility of additional investments, which could generate additional trade, which we cannot foresee today. It's always pretty hard to predict these things. But we're looking at this study right now. It contains a comprehensive description of which freight markets have been sought to take account of and how freight forecasts have been derived from different models. In the press, too, a number of transport specialists have expressed a certain cautious attitude, even accusing the figures of being unrealistic. It's kind of hard to argue with them right now. We can now rely on this international study in the government, which has been commissioned as a joint project between the three Baltic States and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U35	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In part, you have already answered the question that I wanted to ask, talking about the joint venture of the three Baltic States, which is currently the subject of discussion. There has also been a great deal of talk in the Committee on European Union Affairs about good cooperation between the three countries. But what happens if this joint venture is not created? If, for some reason, one Baltic State does not participate in this, if, for example, its administrative capacity or financial capacity does not allow it, does this mean the end of the entire project?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U37	I wouldn't be so attached to this joint venture. This company has again been proposed on the basis of this international study as a sensible option for the development, investment and future management of international, transnational, comprehensive transport projects. Here, there are different experiences in Europe. That's the model. If this work leads to some sort of option that this project can also be managed by national companies, then why not? But on the basis of current knowledge, it seems to us that such a joint venture would certainly promote the realisation of this project. Rather, I think it is an obstacle if one of the three Baltic States does not have enough political will for this project. This company is, I think, just one tool on this thing. But at the moment, it is not noticeable that no one has enough will.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U38	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It is mentioned in the inquiry that a railway station building is needed in Pärnu. But there are also station buildings in Estonia that require repairs, for example in Jõhvi, Ida-Virumaa. In this regard, Mr Minister, I have the question: is there a programme at ministerial level or some other document for renovating station buildings, or is this work done differently, under other rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U40	There is no such comprehensive document. It also depends on the ownership of the station building. If this building is part of the railway company's infrastructure and there is a demand or a need to serve passengers or freight, then the Estonian Railway Infrastructure Company will certainly deal with it, say, as we can. But we know that station buildings have different legal status: some have gone to the local government, some are privately owned. That depends on it. They are often architecturally beautiful and conservationable buildings. It is certainly worth considering their comprehensive support in the future. But at the moment, we have not initiated a separate railway station project at national level, at least the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not done so, because these buildings have different needs and different statuses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U41	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Can we conclude that in the direction of Viljandi, Rail Baltic is finished? Or are there other ways that at some point the direction of Viljandi may return to the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U43	Hope dies last, Mr. Understood. You know this as Chairman of the Special Committee on Security Oversight. I was just talking about what the government's work is on right now. We have done this study; different routes have also been discussed within Estonia. But we can never rule anything out. If we can prove that some other option is better, why not? You can always consider that. This is the current situation objectively. I have many friends and acquaintances of my own in Viljandi, who like to think about it from time to time, but the reality is that we are still a pragmatic nation and we can more or less count money. I think it would be better to think about how to find out for South Estonia and what is included in it, and I would now also consider the compensatory measures in the good sense of Mulgimaa and Viljandi County, so that this region does not lose out in any way. We should look at Estonia as a whole. I think that the whole of Estonia would win if we had a better rail connection. I have participated in discussions in Tartu that have tried to make claims that if Rail Baltic starts going through Pärnu, the university will be shut down and other things will happen. You know, let's take the easiest situation: if Rail Baltic doesn't come at all, will the university be shut down? These things aren't that dramatic. It is worth thinking about how to make better use of the opportunities offered by South Estonia and how to come up with innovative ideas on this subject. I don't think we're gonna get any kind of victory over pulling off the blanket. Whether Rail Baltic should go through Tartu or Pärnu has been well analyzed. This different number of kilometres is still such a strong argument. We are already walking on this project only on this side of the centre of success of this project. But discuss these things in Viljandi.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U44	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U45	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I hope that this project, which is very important for Estonia, will someday be realised. We all hope so. But today, the representative of Eesti Pank in the Committee on Monetary Affairs gave an overview of the economic problems and fiscal problems in the euro area. He didn't paint a very bright-eyed picture for us. He pointed out that very many economic trends were on a downward trend and that uncertainty remained. All that has led to the policy of recent days has not improved the outlook for the euro area economy. What are, in your opinion, the most important risk factors, the risks that could lead to this project being unrealised?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U46	I was not involved in this debate and it is very difficult for me to draw any parallels here with the progress of this project. This project is still long-term. Certain difficulties in the European economy are a problem in the short or medium term, not to mention that you brought some parallels to the weekend elections. I think there's still a different time dimension here. For this project, the next financial perspectives of the European Union may be of financial importance. I believe that there is no point in us being sceptical enough to imagine that the European Union is now without a financial perspective. If the European Union has a financial perspective, then it must also have some content so that it is worthy of the European Union. Content means some volume, some kind of development projects, that is, a comprehensive development of Europe. I believe that this certainly includes better integration between the Nordic countries and the rest of Europe through different modes of transport. If you look at this logic and look at the size of this project, you can see that it is not cosmic figures, even if you look at transport-oriented funds from the central European budget over this or the next seven years. It is not such a tiny European economy that it starts packing things up here. We should still look at the figures that show the position of the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U47	Please, Mr Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Your arguments, of course, are clear and quite convincing. It's not like we're going to pull that blanket into that Viljandi with terrible force. But I've also heard of these things, I don't know if these are speculations, so that Latvia could be interested in the direction of Viljandi in regional policy, because then Valmiera and Cesis would stay close to this route. I do not know the difference between kilometres, what this means for Latvia. Is it clear which route Latvia has chosen, and do they have the same preference that it should come from Pärnu and Ikla?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U49	In this respect, I have not heard any doubts from the Latvian official representatives. Latvia has stated at a rather high level that, unlike the initial option proposed by international researchers, they are not satisfied with the so-called Riga solutions, i.e. how this route passes through Riga. I think that the questions raised by Latvia are certainly justified. These are rather national issues. For example, we do not have a final solution to how these trains are going to enter Tallinn, for example, and there are several options for this. But I have not heard from any of the representatives of Latvia that they have questioned this schedule. But I do not rule out that these questions may arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U50	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand you, Rail Baltic is a more distant future. In Estonian terms, Rail Baltic is still the third stage in railway development. But before that, there are stages where the speed of passenger train traffic is increased, rolling stock is improved, waiting platforms are set up and more comfortable passenger trains are introduced. Will all these activities take place as planned in Estonia, so before the first two stages take place and only then will Rail Baltic be here, the choice of which will definitely be discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U52	Thank you. For the first stage, the answer is clearly in the affirmative. In fact, the first stage of Rail Baltic is to move the line to Tapa-Tartu-Valga with a speed of at least 120 kilometres per hour even over full, I dare say. We have expanded this opportunity in the Tallinn region, in the direction of Narva and also in the direction of Viljandi. This mission has been accomplished. The second stage is to increase the speed to 160 km per hour on this same old route. We've got the projects drawn up. They are also a question of the transport strategy for the years 2014 to 2020. The current starting point for experts is to look at the money figures in a very rational and cold way. Excessive investments to reach speeds of 160 kilometres per hour may not give back anything at all. If we are to achieve this speed, it may require very large investments, in essence it means building two sets of rails in many sections. Such investments may not be reasonable, especially if we consider contact with Riga and beyond if Latvia does not come with us. I'm being very careful right now. There's no point in spending money in there. However, we do not rule out some projects to increase the speed of trains going from Tallinn to South Estonia, also for national interests. These are, however, very clearly fixed projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U53	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U54	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! To sum up this conversation, I want to know the following. If you look at the investment wishes and priorities of the three Baltic States, will Rail Baltic be among the first three in real competition for infrastructure sites in all three countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U55	It is now difficult to say, because all countries are renewing their transport strategy. The period of investment in Rail Baltic, when all preparations go smoothly, will run until 2018, the construction will last for five to six years until 2024. The Lithuanian Parliament has, for example, taken different decisions, declared full special status and excluded any other competition. We know that the transport investment financing scheme proposed by the European Commission will make such projects compete with other projects rather than with small national projects. I think it is probably the case that financing the Rail Baltic project does not mean competing for us with one port or another, but rather whether we are doing this project in this corner of Europe or whether this money goes to another corner of Europe. That is the final question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U56	Any more questions for the Minister? No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister Juhan Parts. Do the heirs wish to make a final statement? No, I don't. The first request for information has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U57	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Aivar Riisalu, Deniss Borodichi, Enn Eesmaa, Kalev Kallo, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toomi about the situation of Estonian investors in Ukraine on 4 April 2012. An inquiry has been submitted to the Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet. Representative Yana Toomi of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U58	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry is entitled 'The situation of Estonian investors in Ukraine'. The reason for this inquiry is that Ukraine has developed an unhealthy situation with foreign investors, including Estonian investors. That is the reason for our appeal and our attention. I will briefly describe the situation, although Äripäev and, as far as I know, have written about it several times, so I think that everyone is more or less familiar with it, but I will talk about it a little bit. As an example, I use the Estonian investment company Magarach OÜ, which has invested over two million grivna in the Ukrainian Vine and Wine Institute Magarach. The development and production bases of the Magarach Wine Institute are located in Yalta, Ukraine. This financial assistance included advances paid out of debts arising from the Institute's remuneration prior to the start of the cooperation and subsequent investments in the reconstruction of the winery, such as bottling lines. The financial assistance was issued after an agreement signed in 1999. During the cooperation period the volume of wine production increased 19 times. The increase in production made it possible to significantly increase the remuneration of the company's employees and, in the form of taxes and levies, more than 1200000 grivna per year was paid to the local government's budget. The rate of payment of VAT increased from 6 000 Gryvna to 1165000 Gryvna, etc. In short, there was cooperation until one beautiful day, or rather not a beautiful day, Ukraine's partner failed to cooperate. The consequence is that Estonian investors have stayed in Ukraine with a long nose, as Äripäev called it. The investment protection agreement that has been concluded between our countries does not work in real life. In this context, we have eight questions for Foreign Minister Urmas Paet. I hope he reads the questions when he answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U59	Thank you. I beg the Foreign Minister of the Chair Urmas Paeti!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U60	Good afternoon. The first question: 'What are the real levers that Estonia can apply to a partner country (in this case Ukraine) in order to ensure the protection of its investments in that country? ' Estonia has concluded an investment protection agreement with Ukraine aimed at creating a favourable investment climate and ensuring equal treatment of investors on both sides of the agreement, as well as the possibility of transferring investments, adequate protection in expropriation, dispute resolution, etc. So such an agreement has been concluded, although, unfortunately, there have been problems with its implementation and compliance with its principles. The business and investment climate is an important aspect of bilateral relations between Estonia and Ukraine as well as communication between the European Union and Ukraine. In all high-level bilateral meetings with Ukraine, we have addressed the business environment and stressed the need to find solutions to the concerns of Estonian entrepreneurs who have encountered problems in Ukraine. The last time I spoke to my Ukrainian colleague, Minister of Foreign Affairs Gryshchenko, was in March this year. One of the topics of the Intergovernmental Commission meetings, which was relaunched in 2010, has also been the problems faced by our businesses. The official final protocol of the December 2011 meeting sets out, as a separate item, a list of the problems faced by specific companies in Ukraine. Ukraine has promised to address these issues. In addition, in recent years, we have sent written enquiries to Ukraine and notes on the problems that have hit our entrepreneurs. Both Estonian ambassador and diplomats from the embassy in Kiev have constantly met Ukrainian officials and politicians to find solutions to these concerns. However, it has to be said that the finding of solutions has so far been hampered either by Ukraine's weak administrative capacity or by its unwillingness to seriously change the situation, perhaps for both of these reasons. The same conclusion has been reached by other Member States of the European Union. The deterioration of the business climate is also a public debate in the dialogue between the European Union and Ukraine. The European Union has repeatedly stressed that this situation must change. These messages have been sent to Ukraine in different forms. In Brussels, too, discussions have been held and will continue in the working groups of the European Union. The need to improve the business climate has also been highlighted by the representatives of the European Commission in their approaches. So a brief answer to the first question can be said to have two lines: bilateral communication to solve these problems and communication through the European Union. The concerns of Estonian entrepreneurs are not unique, but there are similar concerns among entrepreneurs in many other European Union countries as well as in other countries. The second question: 'How does your authority generally assess the investment situation in Ukraine and the protection of investments there? ' Unfortunately, it has to be said that the deterioration of the business environment and the investment climate has been an increasing trend in recent years. The situation in Ukraine remains also politically tense and has an impact on the business environment. Corruption is a major problem. This disrupts the legal system and hinders economic development by reducing the perspective of small and medium-sized enterprises in that country. According to PricewaterhouseCoopers' economic crime report last year, illegal company ownership is the most common economic crime in Ukraine. Foreign companies or companies with high foreign participation are the most vulnerable in the context of the situation, as the legal protection of investors in Ukraine is weak. The International Arbitration Court has now presented ten cases against Ukraine, including German, French, Canadian and other companies. International analyses also reflect the deterioration of the business climate. According to last year's corruption perception index, Ukraine fell from 134 to 152th place, or 18th place in a year. The World Bank's and the International Financial Corporation's index of ease of doing business this year decreased by 3 points in Ukraine compared to last year. This country is ranked 152nd in the table of 183 countries in the world. In terms of the total number of taxes, the leader of the Ukrainian list is in a bad way. Question 3: "Is it true that many investors in Estonia and the European Union face such difficulties? " As I said in answering previous questions, the brief answer is yes. Ten cases have been brought before the International Arbitration Court against Ukraine, including those of the German, French, Canadian companies I have mentioned. In addition to the malicious takeover of the company, i.e. raiding, Estonian entrepreneurs and investors are mostly affected by problems related to the refund of VAT, as well as difficulties with legislation, customs services, the tax administration and the judicial system. It is important to know that the same problems as I have mentioned will also be encountered by many businesses in other countries, including those in the European Union. Question 4: 'If this is true, has this practice of the Ukrainian authorities been discussed with colleagues from the Member States of the European Union? Are such discussions planned in the future? " Yes, these issues have been discussed. The business climate and the investment environment are also an important issue within the framework of the political dialogue between the European Union and Ukraine. These concerns and messages have been communicated to Ukraine in different forms. In Brussels, such discussions have been held in the various working groups of the European Union and will continue to be held as long as concerns have not been resolved. Question 5: Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed the European Commission of the situation? If not, why? If so, what is the result? ' Yes, the European Union's representation in Kiev and the European Commission have been informed, they are aware of this situation and of the problem. In addition to many other countries, we have turned our concerns there. The European Union delegation in Kiev is constantly complementing the EU business agenda. So there is a permanent overview of the problems faced by companies in the European Union, which describes the most important problems and lists companies that have difficulties, as well as the nature of these difficulties. To speak more broadly, issues relating to the business environment are important within the framework of the political dialogue between the European Union and Ukraine. Commissioner Füle also identified the rule of law and the reform of the justice system as a key issue in February and mentioned the need to improve the business climate. The same issue was highlighted in December when the EU-Ukraine summit was held. EU Trade Commissioner De Gucht has constantly raised this issue on the EU side. Question 6: 'How do you, as Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, assess the prospects of restoring justice to Estonian investors in Ukraine? " As we can probably conclude from the above, Ukraine's business environment is currently at risk. Even if there is goodwill, the business and investment climate will not change overnight. Therefore, matters concerning the business environment remain on the agenda of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Affairs and other Estonian ministries as well as the European Union. The role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our embassy is to share information on potential risks, raise the issue if problems arise, keep it on the agenda and, to the extent possible, contribute to finding and finding solutions. But, after all, in the light of all this information, specific investment decisions and entrepreneurial risks are to be decided by each individual company. Question 7: "Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to warn Estonian businessmen about the risks associated with business in Ukraine? ' The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has always considered it very important to provide Estonian companies with adequate information about the business and investment environment in Ukraine. The website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Estonian Embassy provides overviews of the business environment in Ukraine as well as information and information for entrepreneurs through meetings and various events. The last such meeting of Estonian entrepreneurs and Estonian ambassador in Ukraine took place in Tallinn at the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on 13 April. Our diplomats in Ukraine are always ready to provide Estonian entrepreneurs with more information about local circumstances. At the same time, all this is possible and easier when Estonian entrepreneurs themselves signal their Ukrainian interests to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If they sense the first warning signs, they should report it as early as possible. The last question: 'How do you think the unhealthy situation regarding the protection of foreign investors in Ukraine could affect the relations between Ukraine, Estonia and the European Union? ' It is clear that the business and investment climate is an important part of communication between Estonia and Ukraine as well as between the European Union and Ukraine. The deterioration of the business environment is a matter of public debate; the debate is also taking place here in the Estonian Parliament today. The message is clear: the situation cannot continue as such, it must change, otherwise there will be a growing distrust of companies against Ukraine, which will ultimately affect both the volume of trade and long-term investment plans. Ukraine is well aware that it needs to pursue structural reforms, that this is the only way to strengthen cooperation with the European Union, to approach European Union standards and to move forward in the process of integration with the European Union. But, of course, the future of both the economy and other aspects of state life and the future of the country at all are primarily in the hands of Ukraine itself and its leaders. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U61	I also gave examples in the introductory text of how in one year Ukraine, for example, has fallen from 134 to 152th place in the corruption perception index. Unfortunately, such poor trends are taking place there. As far as the approach to the European Union is concerned, before we start talking about joining the European Union, we must have accession talks with the European Union. To this end, this country must be granted candidate status. The prerequisite for this, in turn, is the Association Agreement, the Free Trade Agreement and many other agreements, which, once again, assume positive developments within this particular country, in this case Ukraine, so that it can demonstrate, with the development of its domestic behaviour and internal reforms, the real will to reach all the process I described when I joined the European Union. The current situation, as you probably know, is that, unfortunately, progress towards the European Union is going very hard. The Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine has not yet been able to sign, despite long-term efforts, not to mention the next steps that need to be taken to become, for example, a candidate country for accession to the European Union, after which accession talks can start, which is also a very long and often painful process. It is clear that all of this together today we are talking here about the business climate, but unfortunately there are other concerns in this country, such as concerns about the rule of law, which do not bring Ukraine closer to the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U62	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U63	Thank you, Madam President. When Äripäev wrote about this sad experience of investors, the editor's column had such a quote: 'External hypocrisy, which considers one corruption to be better than the other, is in no way in the interests of the entrepreneur. Protecting the interests of Estonian investors in Ukraine and Georgia has remained a voice that has no real cover, so we can only rely on ourselves and the credibility of our partners. ' How do you comment? Why is Georgia mentioned in this sentence? Is there a similar problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U64	I don't remember who said that. Perhaps it is possible for this speaker to clarify why he said so. It is clear that the country can draw attention to the problems, raise them, put pressure on the country, together with other countries, where there are problems. That's what we've been doing all along. What more could be done? There are entrepreneurs who have turned to arbitration courts. If an Estonian entrepreneur feels that this step is needed, of course they can do so and then hope that the judgment, if ever made in the arbitration court, will make something move. That is the situation now. Looking at the wider picture, it is not, of course, in the interests of Estonia and the European Union as a whole to give up on the situation in Ukraine. It is not in our interest that Ukraine's corruption index, as well as other indicators, should fall to the very bottom. So, in addition to raising and putting pressure on the problems, we must try to help ensure that the reform process in this country does not stop completely. This story in Ukraine is not quite hopeless. For example, on 12 April the Council of Europe adopted a new Code of Criminal Procedure, which has also been approved by the Council of Europe, and on 13 April the President approved the Law on Civil Society Associations, which facilitates the registration and facilitation of civil society organisations. It has also been announced that the Constitutional Assembly will be convened in Ukraine. So there are some developments. They will, of course, take time before they produce results. But all of this must be supported so that the situation does not end up in a ditch. As far as Georgia is concerned, I do not have any concrete examples of this at the moment, as I had prepared for Ukraine. I don't know who told that newspaper. If this person has any problems or problems with Georgia, you could report them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U65	Thank you. You mentioned that in Ukraine, this unfavourable attitude to foreign investors may be caused either by a lack of administrative capacity or by involuntaryity, but perhaps by both of these reasons together. Inefficiencies are a concept that everyone understands. But what could involuntaryity mean? After all, this involuntary state is pretty likely to harm itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U66	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U67	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U68	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have several familiar businessmen who started business in Ukraine years ago. They were very pleased with how it worked and how they managed to develop there. At the moment, there is no feeling that there is any European approach, no integration. It's more like it looks the other way around. Tell me, please, whether corruption and any of the problems you have been talking about here can interfere with Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Are there any criteria to be met by the acceding country in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U69	From our point of view, or from the point of view of common sense at all, this situation is damaging to each country. However, if more and more entrepreneurs from very many countries feel that they have been made very difficult or almost impossible to invest in or develop entrepreneurship in this country, it will surely be harder to make new investments. That's how they saw the exact same branch they're sitting on. But I am saying that the Ukrainian economy urgently needs foreign investment. Perhaps somewhere there are specific individuals who take personal advantage of creating these problems. Of course, in the long term, the state as a whole will not benefit in any way if the country's reputation is based on cases of corruption and unfair attitude towards foreign entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U70	Any more questions for the Minister? No further questions. Thank you very much, Urmas Paet. Does the representative of the heirs request a final statement? No, I don't. The second inquiry has also been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U71	We are moving to the last item on the agenda, which is a free microphone. After the hammer hit, you can ask your question. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have a question, but there are some thoughts I want to share with you. In recent days, not even in days, but in weeks, there has been a lot of talk about traffic. This is from the point of view that in four months this year there have been almost a third more deaths than at the same time last year. Traffic specialists have publicly claimed that there are a lot of speeders, so we need to limit speed, lower speed, then fewer deaths. The most important thing is that if, every summer, many good roads have had a limit speed of 100 kilometres per hour, this year it has been decided that more than 90 kilometres per hour will be allowed to travel only on those roads where there is two lanes of traffic. I decided to look at some statistics on who, and for what reasons, has been killed in traffic. It turns out that 13 people killed in traffic were quite easy-to-mobile. It turns out that serious road accidents, whether from the rear or from the front, occur within the settlement. Four people have died because of drunk drivers. In 22 cases, the deceased had not used security equipment. Broadly speaking, these figures show that the most important cause of serious road accidents is not high speed, but other factors. It's very simple, and it's gonna be a good push if we get more speed cameras for the police and measure more speed, claiming that there will be fewer fatalities in road accidents. That is, in my opinion, a completely wrong argument. In traffic, I think it is necessary to find those drivers who are really dangerous, who are drunk, who do not use security equipment, who do not use vehicles properly, and the sum of them hooligans. I am of the opinion that the police are certainly not able to do this alone, but that it requires the help of all citizens, and that information is needed from citizens. But if we make the whole police measure speed on straight sections of the road, it is unlikely that those people who are speeding five kilometres an hour on a straight section of the road will be prepared to give information about serious violations to the police so that they can react quickly. Rather, it creates a conflict between the road user and the supervisor, rather than linking them together and jointly finding those drivers who are really dangerous in traffic. This latter is not an easy task, it requires planning, it requires analysis, it requires a very quick response. When a traffic participant receives a message that he sees either a suspect driver who may be drunk or a driver who is hooliganating, making steep bypasses and driving several times faster than is allowed, a policeman who can react and remove those drivers from the traffic must arrive. This is a difficult task for our law enforcement structures. I very much hope that they will decide to change tactics rather than simply decide to go the easy way of resisting by saying that the speed allowed today is ninety, tomorrow seventy and in the near future maybe thirty kilometres per hour. It doesn't save our lives. Thank you. Safe passage for all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U73	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, the free microphone is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U74	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, About twenty years ago, in the mid - 1990's, a very interesting book was published in Germany. It was a collection of about a hundred documents. The authors of the documents that had signed these documents, those quoted there, formed a separate series of characters. Among them were Hitler, Himmler, Rosenberg, Heydrich, Kaltenbrunner and other quite famous persons. This was the first time that documents had been drawn up that gave an idea of what the infamous plan 'Ost' was. In Nazi Germany, the Germans were usually pedantic by trying to predict what would happen in time. Thus, a plan was prepared, which was a description of Germany's post-war policy in occupied territory. According to this, Eastern Europe had to be divided into seven parts. One part consisted of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Belarus. After Belarus was removed from that list. This plan specifically for Estonia (I cannot talk about other countries) meant that in the next twenty years, Heinrich Himmler wrote about it in a letter in 1942, the Germans, the Dutch, the Danes and the inhabitants of other countries conquered by Germany had to settle the territory of Estonia. According to German scientists, every other person living in Estonia was generally close to Aryans. 50% of the population were scheduled to be deported to West Siberia, the other 50% had to assimilate, which Himmler, as I have already said, gave twenty years. Of course, history doesn't have a consensual way of speaking, and everything went as it was. But that was the chance. It was quite possible that in the 1960s there would have been no language or culture, let alone no statehood. It was quite real, considering how the Germans did all their plans during the war. Today, 7 May, shortly before the European Day, before the day of victory, I came here to thank all those who fought in the forces of the Allied States who defeated Nazi Germany, these people, still living veterans, thanks to whom Estonian language and Estonian minds, Estonian culture and Estonian statehood have so far survived and developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U75	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U76	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in the context of a free microphone, people have spoken about what they have in their hearts about Europe Day and about traffic, depending on who is closer to or who is closer to. I was very close to oil shale last week, in fact, I have been close to oil shale for almost sixty years. But I am pleased that there has been a debate on the additional taxation of oil shale as a resource. Why did I even start this conversation last week? I think people deserve a better life in a country with valuable mineral resources in the ground. Nearly Norway is a good example in this respect. It is not normal for teachers, who basically have the future of Estonia in their hands, to be underpaid and therefore feel in a sense inferior to society. I believe that increased taxation of oil shale would enable the missing money to be found to increase teachers' salaries. The Prime Minister, another coalition leader Urmas Reinsalu and the leaders of companies using oil shale, have now spoken on this issue. Opinions are more or less divided in half. While the Prime Minister and one of the major oil shale processors VKG basically support the extra taxation of oil shale, of course the IRL is opposed to it, whose administration includes the largest oil shale consumer, but also the waster Eesti Energia. Smaller companies have voted in favour of Kunda Nordic Cement and have opposed the Kiviõli Chemical Industry. However, I do not think there is an alternative. The State should tax the oil shale resources that it owns higher levels of taxation so that its citizens can live and operate better. I am convinced that it is precisely the use of oil shale that needs to be taxed. Firstly, the current relatively low price of oil shale allows for this. Secondly, oil shale processors are still a major influence on the environment. Their actions will leave quite a trail. Kunda Nordic Cement is perhaps the only company using oil shale that uses all the raw materials. He also uses ash from Narva stations. The Prime Minister is convinced that oil shale products should be taxed. I am convinced that taxation of production would not serve its purpose, because it does not stimulate the prudent use of oil shale. The state should not penalise a company that contributes time and money to the development of technology; the state should still take what it owns. In a word: above all, mineral resources should be taxed rather than the production produced by one or the other company. The production of oil shale leaves a mark: the remaining mountains of pickling, ash and semi-coke. If Eesti Energia and the Ministry of Economic Affairs always say that the resource tax must not be touched, otherwise the price of electricity will rise immediately, then I would remind you that it is precisely the kilning of oil shale that has a particularly exhausting effect on the environment. Who has so far prevented the production of energy from finding alternatives to oil shale? Against the background of all the laws of the European Union, the further development of oil shale energy in Estonia seems not to be the smartest activity. It's just a waste of oil shale. Appreciation of oil shale as oil and chemical products is the right way for Estonia to benefit from it in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-07_U77	Thank you, Lembit Kaljuvee! There's no more calls. Today's trial is over. I wish everyone a nice evening! Closure of the sitting at 4.30 p.m.
