ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 13th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I am handing over the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels. A few words from the content of the bill. The purpose of the draft is to bring the Liquid Fuel Act into line with the Supreme Court decision of 31 January 2012 and the recommendations resulting from that decision. In paragraph 90 of the judgment, it has been found that the Liquid Fuel Act should further regulate the basis for reducing the security by simplifying the activities of the Tax and Customs Board, making it more verifiable and reducing possible complaints. The reduction of the security should be subject to the same bases and criteria as those governing the increase of the security. This draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels makes the necessary changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U4	Let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the Constitutional Commission's draft law amending the Chancellor of Justice Act and the Civil Service Act 167. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can start preparing the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put draft 167 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 85 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 167 on the amendment of the Law on the Office of the Chancellor of Justice initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Civil Servants' capacity and grading structure law has been adopted as a law. The first item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U5	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr Kalle Jents, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U6	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was completed on 20 March and the deadline for the submission of amendments was set at 3 April. The Commission received two amendments, one from the Social Democrats and the other from the Confederation of Trade Unions. In fact, the second proposal was in the form of a letter, but the Commission considered it as a proposal for improvement, discussed it and voted on it. The Commission discussed the issues relating to this draft law on two occasions, on 9 and 16 April. A vote was also held on 16 April, and the draft was decided to send it to a large hall for second reading, the plenary session today, and to conclude the second reading. This decision was made by votes 5 to 3. The Commission did not support either of the proposed improvements. The contents of the Socialist proposal were brief in order to increase the unemployment benefit rate from the current 40% to 50% and in the first three months to 70%. So at the beginning, the unemployed would receive 70% unemployment benefit and 50% for the rest of the period up to the year. I have some fairly recent analysis of what such a change would mean. In cash, this means about EUR 52 million, which is almost EEK 800 million in old money. The content of the letter from the Confederation of Trade Unions was to maintain the old version and, if possible, to consider a one-month waiting period. It is estimated financially at around EUR 22 million. Indeed, the Commission discussed the matter very thoroughly. Harri Tali, representative of both the Socialists and the trade union Confederation, was still the main argument that there is a fear that employers will force workers to leave. There were no claims that this type of unemployment insurance would simply be necessary for people who voluntarily leave and take the time to think. Rather, it was a concern that employers did not behave legally, exert pressure, etc. We remained in the Commission's view that we really should not, as if, accept the illegal behaviour of employers...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U7	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. Please, let's honor the waitress and those people who want to listen! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U8	Rather, the Labour Inspectorate must improve its work so that such things do not happen in practice. We do not have to pay for it with taxpayers' money, because employers are, as if, forcing workers to leave illegally. Therefore, the Commission did not support the amendments and proposes that the second reading be closed. Should the second reading be closed, it is proposed that the third reading be given to the plenary session on 8 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U10	Thank you. Good performer! You said that the Labour Inspectorate should improve the work so that people are not released in such a way that they put white paper in front of them and tell them to write their resignation. But why do you think the vast majority of European countries still give this support to workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U11	Thank you. I'm saying the opposite. If you unravel the explanatory memorandum to this draft, there will be a list of countries that will pay and who will not pay. Most countries in the European Union do not pay such support. If I remember correctly, Bulgaria, I think Cyprus and some other countries will pay for it. This was also discussed at first reading. Most don't pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U12	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Eiki Nestori, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U13	Mr President, I am certainly asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U14	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U15	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I think you're all familiar with a vital case where people make insurance contracts with an insurance company. They know they're allowed something, they're paying the insurance company money, but when the insurance case arrives, that money's not gonna be paid out to them. This money will not be paid because, in addition to the big text, there was something else under the line with the asterisks and in the small letter. What's left of a person then? He knows he's insured, but he can't get the money, he couldn't read the little text. Either he was fooled or he was a fool who knew it. The draft under discussion is a slightly different situation. The initiators of the bill, who is actually a government union, I ask you, which one of you in the elections in large letters promised that people would lose these benefits? Lately, it has been argued here that, oh, how so, we promised something else, we promised to keep the finances in order. Does it have to be understood, then, that if we keep the finances in order, the small letters below the text mean that people are being pulled over their ears and that the promises they have made before are not being fulfilled? Or are there other ways of keeping finances in order, such opportunities as do not make paid-up insurance premiums nationalise, do not take them away, do not use them for other purposes? In short, in summary, the name of this thing is cheating on people. There's another size in politics called lying. This, I guess, isn't gonna get rid of. It's enough if one genius interprets the word'some' and says it's 3%. A few percent, he thinks it's three. Calculates one number and then writes the tax increases on the Socialist neck, for example, both for those taxes that we have never wanted to raise, and for those taxes that we even want to lower. Writes the sum where you get mystical numbers. The next genius forgets the word 'butter' and then the machine gets all worked up and these numbers are absurdly big. It is left to say thank you to the first author for interpreting the word'some' to 3%. Would have said 10 more, what would have happened then? But nothing, it's already in the loader, the loader's working. That kind of lying is even very difficult to debate, to fight. What are you talking about? Imagine the news coming out of Delfi: "No Nestor is a camel with two humps. " How do you argue with this? That's weird. Did you make a press release that the faction discussed, took the certificate from the family doctor and the zoo, and it turned out it wasn't? That's ridiculous, isn't it? That's ridiculous lies. It's kind of pointless to fight.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U16	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Please, let's honor the waitress and honor those people who want to listen! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U17	Thank you. But there will be lies or deceptions like this. My good friend said, "Did you ever really do that unemployment insurance so that the Reform Party could hide its tax promises, "shlike"? " Let's talk about this change and talk about money. Our change is simple. This agreement, which was concluded in 2008, must be met both in terms of the amount of benefits and in terms of the number of people receiving insurance money. If there is a fear that a leaver of his own will might misuse it, we have compromised and offered a longer waiting period of 60 days. What about the money? In the Commission, I did not tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the government union, the money figures for one reason: you would not have believed them anyway. You only believe in your own numbers. All I read here is from 'State Budget Strategy', page 42. In 2008, unemployment insurance income from payments was EUR 48 million, with 37 million being paid out. In 2009, when unemployment was high, the income was 115 million and more than 139 million went out. In 2010, when the new agreement had to enter into force, the income was 179 million, and 76 were paid out. In 2012, where we live today, the benefits will be EUR 41.9 million, with an income of 206 million. Five times as much. Five times as much! For 2013, EUR 38,5 million is currently earmarked for compensation, and our proposal would increase the cost by 52, a total of 80 million. With a new, lower payment rate (3%), the income will be EUR 158 million in the following year, twice as much as it is necessary to pay the benefits. And then you say you keep the finances in order or what you do. You're cheating on people. In the event that our amendment does not go through today, we have little hope, because the draft explanatory memorandum has also told us today that the aim is to take away, we propose to you: take back time and think about whether there is really much to spend 80 million euros on incomes of EUR 158 million for people, knowing that we are saving public money for income support, saving public money for unemployed state aid, and we have received a large number of people insured with health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U18	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe a few more thoughts. First of all, dear Eiki Nestor, you are an old and skilled colleague, but something doesn't match these figures. You've canceled some of the expense. If your proposal materialises, the total cost of the unemployment fund will be 138 million (this is now according to this fresh analysis), 20 million would be left over and the result would be only 20 million in 2013 (I can then give you this paper). This means that, as of today, it would actually be 3% of this limit, and we will no longer be able to reduce unemployment insurance contributions. So you have canceled some of the costs and probably taken only compensation, but there are also a number of costs, costs for labour market measures and other things that the unemployment fund does. I would, however, stop for a moment, as if the government coalition were lying. I don't know, there have been, especially in the last four to five years, very complicated, often unpopular and unpleasant decisions, but I would say that one decision is always an agreement at a certain point in time, at a certain place. This means that the ruling coalition will make its decision at some point, depending on the economic situation, depending on everything else. The same was true of that decision. If this agreement was made in 2008, then it was taken into account, I would emphasise once again that if the unemployment contribution rate of 1.5%, as it was then, could indeed be maintained, let's say a small luxury, that even in the event of voluntary departure it would be possible to obtain unemployment benefit. The real life turned out to be something else. We've talked about it here. The payment rate had to be increased several times, so now we are going to lower it for the first time. Indeed, at the moment, the unemployment fund has considerable reserves and I hope that we will not end up in a situation where we start twitching every year, that the money ends again, and then we start fencing at this rate. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to another point. Last time, my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, here, said that I did not seem to be clear about these things, and later, in a radio broadcast, he said that, apart from being laid off, it was as if there were no other means for employers to discharge the employee. In fact, § 88 (1) and (2) of the Employment Contracts Act provide for the possibility of releasing an employee if he cannot carry out his work due to his skills or if his health has deteriorated. In addition, there are three other provisions in § 91 as to how an employee can exceptionally cancel an employment contract. So there are a lot of cases where an employee, if the job is not suitable for him, receives unemployment benefit. An employee cannot receive unemployment benefit only if he or she is dismissed because of his or her faulty conduct. And in addition to that, the voluntary departure and departure by agreement between the parties. So, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you, however, to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U20	Thank you. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U21	I'm entitled to a reply, the waitress named my name. There was a very misleading mistake in what he said. He does not know that money from active labour market measures, which is also income from the unemployment fund, comes from other sources, mainly from the European Union. These two things must not be confused. Page 42 of the budget strategy of the Republic: revenue 158 million, expenditure 38,5. If we add up to our costs, there will be EUR 80 to 90 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U22	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U23	Thank you. I want to tell Kalle Jents that I am still of the opinion that his thoughts on the employment contract law are not clear. These thoughts are like mush and cabbages and it's very funny to listen when he comes to teach Eiki Nestor about the unemployment insurance system. As far as the radio programme is concerned, the radio programme stated that Kalle Jents said that the employee could go to the employer and request the release of the parties in agreement. No employer will do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U24	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's a person in this hall who wouldn't have been taught in childhood to be honest and always keep the promises you've made. But tell me, what do you think of a country that doesn't keep its promises? What kind of instruction do our children receive when the government, the government, shows that ah empty of the promises we made at that time, we tricked out the signature and maybe you yourself were gullible and stupid to give it, we do as we do at the moment. This is exactly what the Republic of Estonia is doing now. Four years ago, in essence, the bad employment contract law was defrauded by signing from trade unions, shaking hands, perhaps the glasswork was slashed, and decoyed by putting in the law that 40% of unemployment insurance benefits will also be paid out of the previous job of their own accord or by agreement between the parties. Thus, in turn, the unions gained a positive point that they still fought it out, although the rest of the Employment Contracts Act was generally detrimental to the worker, because benefits were reduced and cut. Why are they doing this today? Indeed, I don't understand. There's no logical explanation here right now. There is a common principle in Europe; I repeat, even in the case of voluntary unemployment, unemployment benefits are paid for, which is done in 16 European countries. If a good colleague said that there is only Bulgaria and someone else here, then I can say that Switzerland, Belgium, Austria, Norway, Germany, etc. are among these 16 countries. So you just don't let a person stay home. All the more so if we had this compensation of 40%. We know it's relatively small money, and it's not so easy to get, there are conditions. And why are they quitting anyway? It is understood that the salary is unbearably low or the burden is too high. However, most of the reason is that relationships with the employer simply do not work out. Usually, then, a person feels that he is not wanted there, that his life is made bitter, and that is how A4 format paper is handed out for the application, and that is how it ends. It has been understood in Europe that in this situation it is reasonable to give some support to people precisely in order to get them back into the labour market more quickly. It's important! After all, the state has no use if these people are at home with a disgraceful little unemployment allowance, which probably cannot be bought by a leg shelter to look for a job, we will spend a small amount of money on it. A working person who pays taxes is useful to the state. The state benefits the person who earns and consumes and pays VAT and excise duties. It is of great benefit to the state that it does not have to pay people poor benefits, that it does not have to pay income support. I recall when social jobs were created in Tallinn. Edgar Savisaar was then asked why you are paying this money and wasting so-called taxpayers' money. He said very nicely whether it would be better to pay benefits. It makes sense. This is how the state got more money into the budget at the time, in the form of taxes, when it was going through very difficult times. The same is true today: it is better to invest in giving people jobs than to pay them poverty benefits and unemployment benefits. Therefore, it is still completely incomprehensible once again why the state is breaking its word as to why the state is cheating. To tell you that there is no money today, there has been a long talk here about the money from the unemployment fund. If, at the most difficult time, we had cut unemployment benefit, we would still have raised reserves in this situation. But I'm not going to talk about this anymore. A long time ago, of course, we could have reduced unemployment insurance contributions, we could have increased turnover and added money to the budget. So I am asking on the subject of today's draft: why does the country not want to revive the economy? It's just another cut. All the previous cuts we've made are in effect, nothing has been removed from them. We have cut our economy to death in difficult times. We all remember how the Centre Party warned in 2008 and 2009 that you should not bluff with the budget that we are going to have a major recession. What was the answer that time? You remember, "This is the crisis I want to live in! " The scream was, " We're going to have a soft landing! " That's what they said about food and food. You saw what happened. Now Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi also admitted that yes, we made a mistake back then. Of course, he had a good time talking about it, he wasn't a minister at the time, he was oppressing the Minister of Finance Padar. So I would like to emphasise once again: let us not cut potential working hands. Don't scratch your promised insurance allowance, don't cheat on the people! The Centre Party Group cannot, of course, go along with this draft, and we propose that the second reading of the draft 180 be interrupted. I would very much like to hope that all those who do not want to get the badge of a breaker of promises will vote with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U26	Thank you. Kalle Jents, say the word!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U27	Mr President, do I also have the right to reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U28	Of course you have that right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U29	This thing takes on quite a comic shade, but maybe a respected vice president may be willing to enter into a competition for a better knowledge of the law of such an employment contract in extracurricular times. I'd be happy to join Heljo Pikhof. However, I state that in the radio programme I did indeed claim that the employer also has other grounds for dismissal or dismissal, in which case the employee receives unemployment benefit, and I referred to subsections 1 and 2 of § 88 (1). My colleague said that there is no such thing. I promised you I'd give you those points of law. I didn't have the law on me, but after the end of the sitting, dear colleague, I will give them, I can print myself new ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U30	Thank you. Basically, this competition is possible. I think we're gonna have to do a group of support or friendships, and after that, we can compete and measure in this yard. After the hearing, of course, and if it does not interfere with the work of the Commission. Heljo Pikhof, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U31	Thank you. I have no appetite to compete, everyone knows how much he knows. But I would still like to say that these paragraphs were not mentioned, so the competition is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U32	Thank you. There are no further requests or speeches. So we can proceed with the procedure of Bill 180. I will conclude the negotiations and we will go to the examination of the 180 amendments to the draft. Two amendments have been received. The first amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U33	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U34	Thank you. We will begin the preparation of the vote on the amendment. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 38, against 51 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the lead committee is to be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U35	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-03_U36	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu, against 51. The amendment was not supported. With this, we have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. At the same time, two groups have requested that the second reading of Bill 180 be interrupted. I'm going to read these requests. 'We propose to suspend the second reading of Bill 180. Group of the Social Democratic Party. ' The Estonian Central Party Group has also proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Employment Contracts Act 180. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on these proposals. I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group to suspend the second reading of the 180th draft. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu, against 51. The proposal was not supported. The second reading is closed and the second item is dealt with. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.36 a.m.
