ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the sixth Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Dear colleagues, if there is a desire to submit inquiries or drafts, please! Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U2	Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two draft laws to hand over on behalf of the Reform Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. I daresay both of these are very good draft laws. Both the Riigikogu Plenary Assembly and the Legal Affairs Committee have already gotten to know them once and have been a beautiful consensus on these issues. The Riigikogu is able to process them again and express its understanding by voting. These are the following drafts: firstly, the draft law amending the Commercial Code and related amendments to other laws; secondly, the law amending the matrimonial property register, the notary's fee law and the law amending the Civil Status Act. Successful and quick processing!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U3	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. According to our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Good fellows, we're conducting a presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U4	77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24. Let's get to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U5	The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Estonian Centre Party to the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U6	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a draft that we would like to oblige the Government of the Republic to develop by 1 June next year a package of measures which would restrict or even prohibit the sale of energy drinks to children. Let me be brief as to why we are doing this. Energy drink is a relatively new product both in Estonia and throughout the European Union market. According to the definition of the Institute for Health Development, "energy drinks" are beverages containing carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals, as well as other active substances. Energy drinks differ from other drinks in significantly higher levels of caffeine, taurine, glucuronolactone and herbal extracts. Energy drinks are often confused with sports drinks and lemonades. It is no secret that consumption of energy drinks is very popular among children. If one of the good colleagues sometimes travels by public transport in Tallinn, for example, you have certainly noticed that in the last two weeks all bus stops are thickly filled with advertising of energy drinks, with both the National Institute for Health Development and international experts proving that the promotion of energy drinks is particularly effective for children. A number of Estonian pediatricians believe that the sale of energy drinks should be restricted primarily at children's sporting events and school buffets, and, if not completely prohibited, put energy drinks on shops next to beer rather than lemonade. Due to the negative impact on children and young people, the sale of energy drinks to children is completely prohibited in France, Ireland, Sweden and Denmark. Only pharmacies can buy them in Norway, and it is established in Finland that energy drinks containing more caffeine than a certain dose must be labelled accordingly and on special counters. Our wish is for the Government of the Republic, or probably the Ministry of Social Affairs, to develop some kind of procedure to protect our children from the effects of energy drinks. I'm just saying as a little remargina, as a parent, I know very well what this is all about. My daughter studied at ballet school, and it was our ballerina diet, which often ended in hospital beds, when she was 10 to 12 years old. This is actually a very serious problem. I am asking for this bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U7	Honourable waitress! You have at least one question. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Can you tell us all what the world is like, at least Europe's practice in these energy drinks, to broaden your horizons? Are there countries where bans have already been imposed or sales are restricted?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U9	I just said that. I'm sorry, I can't remember, but I can find this place in my papers. The sale of energy drinks to minors in France, Ireland, Sweden and Denmark, Norway can only be purchased from pharmacies and in Finland these drinks are specifically labelled. All this has been done on the basis of research.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U10	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Really, I don't even dare go to the bus stop to take the bus, all the places are full of ads, inviting the energy drink to drink. But will your good party partners in Tallinn take advantage of the possibility that advertising is the scope of local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U12	The substance of the draft has nothing to do with this issue. But if you have such a great desire to regulate it, you will be able to stand as a candidate for the next municipal elections in Tallinn City Council and make it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U13	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U14	Thank you very much. Do you also have any view of the position that local authorities, for example, should take if energy drink producers wish to sponsor youth events? Should it be prohibited, or should it be avoided for ethical reasons? Have you formed a position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U15	We haven't discussed it, but I don't really see much difference. Look, I've been smoking for 25 years. Every time I miss smokers, for example, I see a smoking Borodichi, I say to him, "Ah, you support culture and sport? " We all know where these excise duties come from. But my own view is that local authorities could certainly review their schools and, in any case, ban the sale of energy drinks in schools. We very much welcome the Rimi supermarket chain, which recently banned the sale of energy drinks to minors.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U16	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U17	Thank you, Honourable Leader. Good waitress! This is certainly a good initiative; there are problems in this area. But you have one point in this draft decision: to develop an action plan. What are the specific views of your group, as the initiator of this draft decision? What solutions have you proposed to address this issue more specifically?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U18	My own position, and I believe that the group, too, is that energy drinks must not be sold to minors and information on energy drinks must be done more effectively. It's done now, but very modestly. This communication cannot in any way compete with these big ads, cool parties and other things, for example. So communication, prohibition of selling to minors and especially labelling. And there's no way they should be standing next to a soda on the counter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U19	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U20	Thank you. Good waitress! My question is motivated by your answer to Peep Aru's question. I believe that Peep Aru will most certainly apply as Viljandi person in Viljandi, but I assure you that I will most certainly run for office at Tallinn City Council. There are a lot of things in Tallinn that deserve to be repeated, a lot of things that are currently out of order. I'm asking you about your rather cheeky answer. You're the one who brought up the ad theme. You yourself said that it was a problem that there were a lot of advertisements at bus stops calling for energy drinks. And when Peep Aru asked if it couldn't be regulated by the local government, you said it was absolutely irrelevant. How do you figure that out now? You yourself spoke about this in your draft presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U21	Thank you, Honourable Asker. You know, your question is best illustrated by a Russian proverb like'sam durak'. There's one thing I'm talking about, and you're telling me another thing. I agree with you that large energy drink ads on the streets of Tallinn do not decorate the city, but I believe they will not do so in Viljandi, for example, or anywhere else, in any Estonian city. That's why we came here with this bill to take care of this whole country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U22	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U23	Thank you. I am pleased that the Centre Party is dealing with such an important health issue and is also thinking about young people. For some years, representatives of parliamentary parties represented in the Riigikogu have been invited to the discussions and round tables on the Public Health Development Plan, to the working meetings, and to the parties' representatives there. Unfortunately, we have not met an authorised representative of the Centre Party in these discussions, but perhaps you have given your input and proposals in a different way. I am asking you what your proposals are to deal with this issue in the Public Health Development Plan and how you are satisfied with the handling of this issue, the commitments, tasks and objectives set out and undertaken in the Development Plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U24	Thank you for your question. This was also discussed in the Commission and you are partly right in the sense that the Public Health Development Plan is indeed a document through which this issue can be resolved. But in this case, we are of the opinion that this is a very concrete step which is not very difficult to do and which can significantly improve the health of our children. We do not necessarily have to wait for this large document to be completed. One does not rule out the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U25	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U26	Thank you. Dear waitress, There are some issues that have been said about the promotion of energy drink. Is there a right now to restrict the advertising of energy drinks more than, for example, the advertising of lemonade or the display of lemonade in a shop? I understand that the purpose of this decision is to distinguish energy drinks at the so-called government level. In the current situation, where he is equal to soda, no restrictions can be imposed on him.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U27	Thank you for your question. That is a very legitimate question. You're right, there's no limit. As we know, there are certain rules in the case of alcohol advertising; strong alcohol cannot be advertised on the front page, for example, but there are no prohibitions for energy drinks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U28	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U29	Thanks! Am I right to understand that advertisements for energy drinks do not decorate Estonian cities except Tallinn? In such a case, it is none of the business of all those who, for some reason, are not in the Tallinn Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U30	Thank you for asking! Good Juku-Kalle, you misunderstood. Although Tallinn is a very beautiful city, I think it is the most beautiful city in Estonia, it does not decorate the city of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U31	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U32	Honourable Chairman! Dear waitress, I'm sure it's a commendable initiative you've come up with. In my experience, my children and I have been practically banning the consumption of these drinks a few decades ago. But have you learned what the term 'energy drink' means?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U33	Thank you! This has been made clear to all of us by the Estonian pediatricians and I think I have already said what is the definition of energy drink and what must be included in this drink. I'm not just going to list all of this in terms of time savings, but if you take off our explanatory statement, it's all right there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U34	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U35	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The information leaflet currently distributed to the Riigikogu also shows that everything is actually stuck in the concentration of how many milligrams per litre. If the concentrations are too high, the effects are getting bigger. But you have also pointed out here that we can extract these same concentrations from other substances, not just from an energy drink, for example, how many cups of very strong espresso is equal to the same amount of caffeine that we could get from an energy drink. So can we just look at the level of energy drinks, maybe we should look at the level of active ingredients, look at it a little bit wider? You've drawn a lot of parallels with alcohol. Have you thought, perhaps the energy drink should be, for example, excise goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U36	Thank you. We haven't discussed the issue of excise duty, but it doesn't make any sense to me if you say 'we'. If you and I go to the cafeteria and have an espresso, we'll definitely get that caffeine, but barely a 10-year-old kid goes for an espresso. The point is that the effect increases depending on how much a person weighs. Kids are usually small-weight, and when they drink this can, the effect on them is many times greater than on you or me. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U37	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U38	Thank you. The dangers and ease of access to energy drinks for young people with undeveloped wisdom and organisms are certainly a very big problem. But are you convinced that the Government of the Republic, to whom you wish to propose, is not already involved in health plans? It is absolutely unthinkable that this issue has not been reflected in general action when the government deals with health issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U39	Thank you! I am not sure that this issue is reflected in these 'working papers' at this angle. Secondly, I can simply repeat what I said to my colleague, Mrs Iva. This is one particular thing that can be done without having to wait until this substantial document is completed, which is undoubtedly very necessary. But our desire to approach everything in a very complex way sometimes just means that we spend more time than we really need to make reasonable decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U40	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. You said you did not want to wait for the public health development plan to be completed. However, the Public Health Development Plan has been completed in 2008. The implementation of the accompanying action plan will be monitored and updated annually. Perhaps you have overlooked a large and important part of the situation in the preparation of the draft? Maybe you've been too shallow.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U42	Thank you! I believe that we have not been too superficial, because there is currently no document in the Estonian country that regulates the advertising and sale of energy drinks to minors.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U43	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, In the world, health risks and health promotion are dealt with very much by an organisation such as the World Health Organisation (WHO). They play a very important role in preventing a number of diseases and promoting health in general. I remember when Estonia was struggling with cardiovascular diseases a few decades ago, the influence and scientific basis of this organisation was very great in preventing all these problems. Has this organization taken any position on energy drinks? Do you have any information?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U45	Thank you for asking! Unfortunately, I have to admit, I owe you an answer. I believe it is, but here I cannot give you a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U46	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I certainly agree that setting the subject is extremely important, and I myself have never bought energy drinks, either for children or for myself. But I'd be more pragmatic. If you are proposing an action plan by 1 June, and it is also known that several members of the Riigikogu, including yourself, visit schools very often to talk about different subjects, which may be political and not always the most objective, then I would suggest that members of the Riigikogu who visit schools take as a mission to explain to students the harmful effects of energy drinks at school. How do you feel about that? This could be done much earlier than on 1 June, even tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U48	Thank you! This is actually a very good proposal. Believe me, we all do this when it comes to talk, it makes perfect sense. As far as I'm concerned, I have to admit I rarely go to schools. But now I will certainly take note of your request, and that is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U49	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When I read about the draft decision to develop, by 1 June 2013, an action plan to reduce advertising and sales of energy drinks for children and young people and to raise awareness of the health of children and adolescents, I have a very simple question for you, as rapporteur at the Commission and vice-chairman at the Commission: for what reasons or how could anyone possibly oppose this draft and what were these basic arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U51	Thank you. In fact, you have already heard these arguments in this Chamber, and I believe you will hear them again when the Commission's rapporteur arrives. Yes, the right approach is that there is a health development plan that should solve all the problems; it involves the representatives of all the parties; that is how the debate went. I don't have a good answer for you, but I'm not the right person to give you these answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U52	Treasure Heinvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am very much in favour of this subject being erected, but at the same time it would be a bit broader. In the case of the decision-making of the state and local governments, classical confrontation is ongoing. It's always in the air that the state takes the decision-making power away from the local governments, centralizes them. With regard to this issue, the municipality has almost exclusive competence to regulate either the advertising rule, the regulation, whatever the matter is, and I know the municipalities, where it has been done very clearly, are regulated and these things are not allowed. Isn't there a little duplicity in the politics of one party?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U54	Thank you! I'm telling you, honestly, without being ridiculous, that I'm thinking about it, maybe there's a little bit of truth here. But we're not just talking about the city space, we're talking about the bigger picture. We're talking about the media, the television channels. In Tallinn Television, you do not see this ad. We're talking about schools, school buffets and store chains. So urban space alone isn't enough. You are right, it should be reviewed, but here I come back to what was asked of me by Kadri Samson: the current legislation does not really provide an opportunity to restrict this advertising.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U55	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is the question of continuing Tõnu July. I also agree that the issue is topical and needs to be addressed. But aren't we confusing two issues? One is a drink containing active substances that are harmful to the body. The general term 'energy drink' may not be quite correct. The question is whether we can treat it as a topic of energy drinks, because it is not drinks that add energy to the body, but it is precisely those that increase the so-called better use of the available resource. Hence the question: is "energy drink" not a misleading term?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U57	Thank you for asking! Actually, it's not. If you read the explanatory statement, you'll see it through. That's where I started, that energy drinks are often confused with sports drinks. It's not the same. In fact, the term is used incorrectly in the national language. The energy drink is what essentially drains the organism, as if it deceives us that we have gained more energy. Actually, it's not. A sports drink is what restores the body's reserves. These are different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U58	Good fellows! Before we move forward, let me just say, as information, that when we propose to the Government of the Republic, our Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that a question can be put to each of the rapporteurs within this item. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I still want to make it clear that I didn't understand the previous answers. If the central government makes such an action plan, what are the possibilities or means of the central government to interfere with the competence of the local government? Organising and trading sports events, street advertising, issuing trading permits are all the competence of the local government. This list is not exhaustive. How can a central government interfere with the competence of a local government, what are these levers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U60	Thank you! I repeat: it is forbidden to sell alcohol to minors at national level. This has been done not at the level of local authorities, but at the level of the state. This is the first step. As far as marketing authorisations are concerned, for example, I do not know of any sales company dealing exclusively with energy drinks. We take any large chain of stores, and there are energy drinks next to other goods. So there's nothing the local government can do. These are the steps here. I agree with you, I understand that the background to your question was that local governments could contribute, and you are right. But if there were some kind of central government work programme, it would be easier and more logical to do it all over Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U61	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U62	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I am completely in favour of your theme setting and I see that advertising and sales of energy drinks need to be regulated, but isn't this an open door break-in? In the summer, the people of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the head of health policy of the Public Health Department, Ene Augasmägi, confirmed that the restrictions on sales and advertising are already being developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U63	Thank you! If that's the case, it's very nice. This is all the more reason for me to vote against our proposal, because we are simply setting a time limit so that this action can finally be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U64	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U65	Good manager! Good waitress! I think this is the very right subject that has been brought into this hall today. But I myself wondered why we are trying to give this task to the government for half a year. I mean, why don't we make the same bill ourselves and come to this hall with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U66	Thank you! There are two reasons. First of all, as far as half a year is concerned, you see, this bill has been introduced a little earlier, there was a little more time. Secondly, as we often hear here, the government, rather the Ministry of Social Affairs, has the authority and resources to deal with it. Not that we come here with this bill, and then we get blamed for having done it and doing it wrong. All the more so as information moves within the ministry, and if they are really doing so, it would simply be very logical to give them a deadline by the Riigikogu so that this work can finally be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U67	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U68	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You are proposing to ban the sale of energy drinks to children, but at the same time there are various other chemicals available in stores, such as cleaning products, acetone and other things. Would it not be appropriate to ban them too?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U69	Thank you! I've never heard of children drinking them, but you're older and more experienced than me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U70	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U71	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, Here you have quite often been approached with suggestions that advertising and sales decisions should be made by the local government. Are we only discussing advertising and sales restrictions today, or are we talking about the issue of freely available energy drinks in youth centres and during children's events, as these drinks can be dangerous for children? In this case, it certainly cannot be done separately in every village and rural area, but this debate must be at national level.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U72	Thank you! That is a very correct question. First, every municipality and every city behaves as it sees fit. Secondly, I already mentioned ballet school here and I also know other institutions, sports clubs, where coaches themselves often do not know the dangers involved, where they themselves bring energy drinks to children and drink them before big competitions. These are not individual cases, this is happening all over Estonia, and that is why we are discussing this issue in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, not at city or parish council level. This is the right place to discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U73	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The questions raised by the Coalition began in a mass of introductory words such as 'the subject is topical', 'in favour', 'in favour', 'needs to be addressed'. After 'but' came up and they figured out a reason why they shouldn't be working on it. There are three versions. One is fantastic that coalition is fantastic at the wages of energy drink producers, of course it can't be what money they still have there. The second is that there is an agreement not to assign any tasks to the government under any circumstances. The third is a certain indifference to what is happening to us in the area of health protection, and especially to children. What is your version of why this question is viewed in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U75	Thank you for asking! I'm trying not to be paranoid. This first version, of course, is no good anywhere, even though energy drinks are produced by both Saku and A.Le Coq and they advertise them. I understand that this is a large part of their market and their revenue. According to my own version, the attitude is simply that one opposition bill should not go through. I am very pleased that, after this vote is over, another party would come up with a similar bill. As long as it's done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U76	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, In my opinion, my colleague, Mailis Reps, asked very rightly, the question being raised is very correct. You talk about the sale and you talk about advertising, but we do see how these same energy drinks, as well as the power drinks, are freely available at various events. I understand that the question of Mailis Reps went in the direction of banning drinking these drinks, not only sales and advertising, but also drinking. You didn't answer how you could stop it from drinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U78	Thank you! I will, just in case, read out two lines: 'To develop by 1 June 2013 an action plan to reduce advertising and sales of energy drinks for children and young people and raise awareness of the health of children and adolescents. ' As you can see, there is no mention of banning here, for the simple reason that there is no point in putting in place a language that you cannot control. That's stupid. So what we are offering is to raise their awareness and limit advertising and sales.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U79	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presentation. No further questions. Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft decision submitted by the Centre Party to the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 15 October. On behalf of the initiators, Yana Toom introduced the draft. Next, let me refer to the debate that took place in the Commission. The Commission has agreed that consumption of energy drinks needs more attention than has been the case so far. The own-initiative regulation of the Rimi store chain was also positively highlighted in the Commission. At the same time, it was noted that we do not need a separate action plan, because the issue raised can be regulated through a population health development plan approved by the Government of the Republic, whose steering group includes representatives from each political party represented in the Riigikogu. To remind colleagues that the population health development plan sets out strategic objectives for the continued improvement of population health and plans for the annual action plans for the implementation of the plan plan for the implementation of these objectives. A significant part of the loss of Estonian health is avoidable. The three main causes of early mortality are cardiovascular diseases, tumours and injuries. Health behaviour and environmental factors have a significant impact on all three. The population health agenda provides orientations and recommendations for action at different levels for good health and combines action as a whole. Activities related to energy drinks are therefore very relevant in the context of the population health development plan and it is certainly worth thinking about how to give them even more attention. The topic raised by the Centre Party fits the "Healthy Lifestyle' in the fourth area of the Population Health Development Plan with the second action "Improving the eating habits of the population'. The next steering committee meeting will be in December, and I believe that if our good colleague from the Centre Party, Viktor Vassilyev, proposes this, he can certainly count on my support as well as on the support of all the other members of the steering committee. On the basis of the above considerations, the Commission proposed that the Plenary Assembly reject the draft decision. It was supported by 5 and against 4 members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U81	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The subject is important, which is also signalled by the fact that the subject matters to all parliamentarians. There are indeed questions and there are those who have so far not been able to ignite the state budget, the increase in electricity prices or the future of Europe. I have a specific question for you, which the initiator of the draft could not answer by saying that this will be done by the next Commission representative coming from the remote control. The question is simple: for what reasons should I oppose this bill? It seems to me that this'main line of force', that this topic should simply be included in the Health Development Plan, although otherwise it is a very good draft, is not adequate. What are the three specific reasons why I should vote against this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U83	Thank you. I think that the issues should be addressed within the framework of the action plans that we have. In 2008, the Government of the Republic approved the development plan for the health of the population. A large number of people took part in the drafting of this document and were prepared for a very long time. It has five thematic areas that will be addressed, and concrete actions are foreseen under each thematic area. Under the Healthy Lifestyle Action, specific actions are foreseen to improve the health awareness of children and young people. We have a document that shows concrete actions. The Steering Committee must now assess whether these activities are adequate and, if necessary, make improvements. I would ask in return what our purpose is. Do we want to do something together, or do we just wanna beat the drum here? There is a population health development plan, its steering committee involves an authorised representative from each political group, and it allows all these activities to be carried out. Why do we have to duplicate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U84	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U85	Thank you. Dear waitress, In a question addressed to the representative of the initiators, the claim was that someone in the Ministry of Social Affairs was preparing to ban the advertising of energy drinks, something like that. Did you hear this information, and was it checked in the Committee on Social Affairs? Do you personally know anything about this? And to sum up the question: is the statement that the Ministry of Social Affairs is already dealing with this problem at the very legislative level true?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U86	Thank you. This issue was not discussed in the Commission. However, the population health plan provides for activities for each year and has an implementation plan where specific activities are planned. The issue of energy drinks has been addressed in relation to child obesity. However, I do think that the steering group, when we meet in December, should consider putting a separate point in the action plan for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U87	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U88	Honourable Vice President! Dear waitress, Has the Committee on Social Affairs not discussed at all the control of food in our trade, which I believe is limping on several legs now? A number of examples can be found here. For example, the milk we consume every day has apparently been sold in a product sold to the head of fresh milk with an numb addition of milk powder. Meat that has probably already exceeded its strategic deadline in the refrigerators of other countries and which we have in full normal use. In addition to today's point, the Commission should probably look in depth at food control as a whole, improving it in Estonia. Has this been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U89	These issues were not discussed in this draft and have not been discussed in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U90	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U91	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! Understandably, the government has proposed that this draft decision should not be appropriate. But since you are in the steering group for the development plan and you are also a rapporteur for the Commission today, I will ask you what interests me much more. Will the Commission, the Steering Group and the Ministry continue to address the risk of energy drinks for our young generation, then they will be under 16 or under 14 years of age? The society's awareness of these threats is very low, and it is certainly a considerable problem, especially among our very young children, because there are also constant consumers in the 10-year-olds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U92	Thank you. There were two questions. Firstly, since the content of the draft is to propose to the Government of the Republic, the Government of the Republic does not express an opinion here. So this isn't a government guideline. If it was a question for the steering group, as a representative of one of the steering groups, I can say that this is an important issue, and I think that at the next meeting it will certainly come through the debate that has been raised here. We need to look at what has been the activities to date, particularly those relating to raising the health awareness of children and young people, how precisely the issue of energy drinks has been addressed. It has been dealt with, but enough, it needs to be analysed. It would certainly be worth considering a further proposal for a fourth area, i.e. a second measure of healthy lifestyles. In order to regulate the sector, proposals should be drawn up based on international research and practice in other countries. In any case, this is an important issue for further action within the framework of the population health agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U93	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U94	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I come back to the same thing I've already been trying to find out from Yana Toom, but I couldn't. Did the Commission discuss that we should still address this issue on an active substance basis? In fact, energy drinks are known as "municipal" as specific brands, specific products, be it Red Bull, Battery or something like that. But at the same time, we know that in Italy and France, for example, any gas station can buy energy drink components in the form of either an ampoule or a powder that you can add to your favorite drink, be it Coca-Cola, juice or whatever. If you don't like the taste of a particular product, like Red Bull, you'll still get the spanking. If we're just talking about an energy drink right now, we're going to rule out these components. As far as medical treatment is concerned, each product has its own chemical name and brand name under which it is sold. If we don't talk about these active substances and we're just talking about an energy drink, then we're actually going to rule out these active substances. Did the Commission discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U95	Thank you. This was not discussed by the Commission. When we compare alcohol and energy drinks, alcohol science has been discussed over time. Energy drinks are a relatively new phenomenon and therefore there is less research. I think that, within the framework of the population health agenda, it is worth bringing together the results of research, studying international practice and making concrete proposals based on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U96	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U97	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Here is a proposal to increase the health awareness of children and adolescents. In general, we have recently introduced the task of raising awareness among children and adolescents in various institutions, though schools, though different non-profit institutions. Was the role of the family also discussed in the Commission? For centuries, parents have been teaching children what is beneficial and harmful. Do we completely forget this role? Perhaps we should organize how to raise parents' awareness so that they raise their children so that they can take the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U98	Thank you. This was not discussed separately in the Commission, but there are five important areas in the population health agenda: social cohesion, the safe development of children and young people, a health-friendly living, working and learning environment, healthy lifestyles and the development of health systems. As you can see, in the first area of social cohesion, the whole population of Estonia, the young and the old, are together. These activities, which are in different areas, should also increase coherence within the family. There are also activities for a healthier development of the population, which means that parents will receive more information to make their own healthy choices and guide their children to make healthy choices. It should be noted that the population health development plan is a development plan adopted by the government and a steering group is made up of representatives from all ministries, which means that it is a coordinated action to avoid duplication between them. The proposals made there also reach schools through curricula and various projects. So the subject is very broad.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U99	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the beginning of your presentation, you mentioned that the Rimi trade chain has itself started to 'good trade practice', by generalising, restricting or regulating the sale of energy drinks and advertising. Did it turn out from the responses of the initiator's representative or from the Commission's discussions that, for example, this issue has been discussed with the Traders' Association, that understanding and the will to regulate the sale and advertising of energy drinks will grow from there, within the sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U101	Thank you. This issue was not discussed in the Commission, but it certainly deserves to be considered. I think that all the good ideas that have been heard here today can be taken to the steering group of the population health development plan and then found an application.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U102	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Do you consider it normal, as a representative of the Commission, to share energy drinks free of charge in public sports events involving children? If you say it's normal, I don't have any more questions. But if you say that this is not normal, I ask why play ping-pong in this hall, if children are harming their health at the same time every day, and why go behind bureaucracy, if it is right today and do it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U104	I'm really glad you're saying we should do this right now. I am pleased to recall that the population health agenda has been adopted for this purpose in order to improve the health of all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U105	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! The subject is certainly topical, and it saddens me that some colleagues make it a joke. The news of this week's Estonian National Broadcasting showed that the US family blamed the child for the death of an energy drink. The parents sued for death because the girl's death was caused by cardiac arrest due to caffeine poisoning. According to the U.S. food administration, there have been four similar cases this year. In particular, parents require the authorities to regulate the consumption of energy drinks. In America too, the authorities are required to regulate, so I think that Estonia has a good example here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U107	There was no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U108	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U109	Thank you, President-in-Office. I will take this opportunity to add the question to what Mr Tarmo Tamm said. Look, we filed this bill on 7 June. Now it's been five months, and we're hearing from this remote control that in December it might be possible to add it to the next year's work programme. So what does that mean for us in time? When could practically the time come when the sale of energy drinks to children in Estonia is still regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U110	Thank you. The Steering Group on the Population Health Development Plan can also make earlier proposals to consider. As I said, the steering group has been meeting since 2008 and various specific activities have been foreseen. The wording of the proposal, so that this issue should be given special attention, can be finalised in December. Until now, the issue of energy drinks has been addressed in particular in the context of raising awareness of the health of children, young people and our people at all. This issue has been analysed in relation to the problem of overweight among school pupils. These are the actions that have been carried out so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U111	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U112	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I, too, would like to be thorough and receive complete information in order to make a decision. Mr Vakra asked three reasons why this government should vote against the draft proposal. You mentioned one, this health development plan. Are you saying that the other two reasons you can't tell me? Perhaps I would also like to support the government coalition and vote against this proposal, but then tell me two more reasons why I should do this. The health development plan alone can't possibly be the reason, it's not enough for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U113	When you read the proposal made by the Centre Party, it consists of two parts. Firstly, to develop an action plan to reduce advertising and sales of energy drinks for children and young people by 1 June 2013 and, secondly, to raise awareness of the health of children and adolescents. The Population Health Development Plan provides for activities to raise awareness of the health of children and young people. And if we have one document that has been adopted and whose implementation is monitored by representatives from all political groups, there is no point in duplication of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U114	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U115	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I would ask for clarification on a matter in which there has been confusion in the debate in the Chamber. It has been argued that there is nothing anyone can do today to limit the consumption of energy drinks. I know that the city of Tallinn has actually made a very good effort, for example, energy drinks are not allowed in school buffets. Is there any way that Tallinn school buffets behave illegally? Please specify which options are, in fact, already in place to limit this consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U116	If my memory doesn't fool me, in 2008 health protection requirements were adopted for school food and also for school buffet. They provided what could be done, what was recommended, etc. This regulation of the Minister for Social Affairs must guide school buffets. To date, many things have already been done in this area and activities are continuing. Certainly, even more attention is paid to energy drinks. In the past, such a proposal has not simply come to the Steering Group of the Population Health Development Plan. Energy drinks have been dealt with in other areas, as I said earlier, with the problem of overweight among school students, with the recommendations of general health awareness. So it's been done, but only energy drinks have not been given special attention. It can be fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U117	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Today's rapporteur-general, Mrs Yana Toom, had to answer a number of questions concerning the right of local government to regulate this area and, as Liisa Pakosta said, to restrict the service and sale of such potential risk drinks or meals in schools. Did the Commission also discuss this, or do you have good examples of where such a right has been exercised on the ground, the possibility for local authorities to regulate matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U119	Thank you. This was not discussed by the Commission, but local authorities are also involved in the implementation of the population health development plan. Health promoters have been employed in local governments, one of their tasks is to increase health awareness and share information. I am pleased to say that there is one of the most advanced cities in Tallinn, where there are health promoters at work, who share relevant information and act to make people more aware that they make better choices that save health.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U120	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U121	Thank you very much. I find it difficult to monitor a situation where questions about the life and health of children and the possible risk of death have been made a tool where someone is trying to be the first to talk about this subject and to oblige others to do something for it. It's even a little embarrassing to watch. There is no doubt that these are things that need to be done as quickly as possible. My question is this: is the meeting of the Steering Committee on the Population Health Development Plan in December not a much earlier date, where something can be done than 1 June, where, according to this draft, the government should just start working on the subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U122	Thank you. I would like to emphasise once again that, within the framework of the population health agenda, attention has been paid to energy drinks and that this issue has also been raised by various parties. I believe that it will certainly be stressed in December that this must also be included as a separate measure in the action plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U123	Thank you. Well, there could be two reasons. The first reason may be that the President's dictation or statement was unclear. Another reason may be that there was simply a confusion in the Chamber, which led one of the officials to ask for clarification, and then the only way is for the President to stop voting. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U124	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U125	Thank you, good manager. The rapporteur from the Commission. Can't be quiet. The subject has become so interesting that everyone is expressing their opinion. For my part, I would like to say that the argument that the government is already engaged in does not gain trust. I can personally give a number of extremely painful examples of how the government reports on actions, but afterwards it turns out that it has been forgotten to take action. Psychologically, it is exciting to see how some of the characters put forward exactly the opposite argument according to who is talking about the draft proposed. If you sum up what the coalition ambassadors said in today's debate, shouldn't the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act be amended and the Riigikogu's right to make proposals to the Government of the Republic should not be significantly restricted? To determine that Parliament will only propose to existing steering groups, local authorities, parents, committees that exist somewhere? Do you not get the impression from the Coalition's proposals that one very clear, simple and legal form of work is currently being restricted?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U126	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! We know that today's Estonian political culture will not allow the opposition to make proposals to the government, nor will it allow good proposals. Have you discussed in the Commission or in your company that exceptions could be made, especially with regard to the necessary laws or proposals? This proposal seems to be one that would require serious attention because this attention has been in this Chamber for an hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U128	Thank you. This issue was not discussed in the Commission. However, I do think that, according to good political culture, the population health development plan started by Minister for Social Affairs Jaak Aab, which was adopted in 2008 and hundreds of people took part in it. To ensure that those people appointed by the Social Affairs Committee to the Steering Group of the Population Health Development Plan take their work seriously and also introduce to their colleagues what is the population health plan that has already been carried out within this framework and what is planned for the future, because the population health plan is a long-term document.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U129	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U130	Thank you. Good waitress! It seems to me that sometimes we approach life too black and white, as we do here. If we do not support this draft in this form, then it is as if we do not want to address the problem or feel the nature of the problem, and the only reason is that it has come from the opposition side. It has been repeatedly said that the problem exists and is dealt with within the framework of the relevant development plan. Since opposition matters are not always dealt with in black and white, but in substance, it is also evident that it was only recently that the opposition's proposal to the Government of the Republic on the pay gap was recognised here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U131	I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U132	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U133	Good waitress! I would also like to reject this draft because the performers do not know what they are doing. Here Mr Tarmo Tamm said something about the United States and how the government will ban it. It's a common wrongful death lawsuit, completely private, nobody thinks to ban anything, and it's federal, and so on. I mean, people are not familiar with the subject and it is quite enough to reject the draft. There's not much to read here, either, if the bases are wrong. But let's assume that Tarmo Tamm suddenly knows what he's talking about. So let's ask this: do we have any moral obligation to go along with all the American fools because they're coming from America?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U134	Thank you. I repeat, we did not have such exciting discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs. Therefore, as a Commission rapporteur, I do not know how to respond to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U135	Good waitress, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Tarmo Tamm, a procedural question or a rejoinder?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U136	Thank you. Since my name was mentioned, I'm not the one who came up with it. I read it on the Estonian National Broadcasting News, quoted the article.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U137	Thank you, waitress. Good fellows! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask the representative of the Central Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U138	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'm not gonna talk for long. I just want to respond to a couple of lines that came out of the hall during the debate, which made me wonder. The first is that I asked the Commission rapporteur a very clear question as to when it could be expected that steps have been taken to limit the sale of energy drinks. I didn't get an answer, like no one got it in this hall. We have heard that there is a health development plan, there are various specific activities, there are current activities, but there will be more and then there will be gathering in December, etc. Mr Rummo then tried to accuse the opposition that we were here to beat the drum, in fact it was the drum behind the waitress's expression, and that December was earlier...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U139	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows! There's too much noise in the hall, so please respect those who want to listen, and respect the waitress! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U140	Good fellows! First of all, I would like to thank my fellow official Eiki Nestor for bringing attention. I'll extend the break by another five minutes. The sitting will be resumed at 11:34 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U141	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! The break taken by the manager is over. We will proceed with our debate and the procedure of the draft. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U142	Thank you. A procedural question. Years ago, my colleague, Tõnu Kauba, asked Toomas Savilt, the Speaker of the Riigikogu, to answer him in Estonian and to understand the questions that are being asked to him. Thomas Savi smiled at it and said: you realize that there are things that are impossible. Here's the procedural question. If the President of the Riigikogu formulated exactly what we are voting for and half of the hall did not understand this, then I conclude that the Estonian language is really in danger. Why must we interrupt this vote, which so beautifully demonstrated our drive towards democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U143	Mr Rummo said that December was earlier than June 1, as if the Centre Party had not known. We're aware of that, thank you! But 1 June is the final date, not the start date, which means that by 1 June this action plan should be ready in our minds. If we started today, for example, there would be more hope for this to happen. With regard to prevention, and all of this, we know very well that everyone is clear that alcohol and smoking are harmful to health. And we can tell the kids how much, but the kids are still trying alcohol and smoke, but that doesn't mean they can be sold. One measure supports the other and it makes perfect sense. When we have talked to social workers at youth centres, for example, we have learned that we have, at least in Tallinn, dozens of children, very young children, 8-, 9- and 11-year-olds who are addicted to energy drinks, who drink three, four or five bottles of energy drinks a day. If we vote against this bill today, I would hate to be the bad messenger, but at some point we are discussing here that something very bad has happened in Estonia too, that someone has consumed too many energy drinks. The news that Tarmo Tamm has just quoted to us is no longer from the United States, but from Estonia. And I think this day is not too far, because communication is communication, but we have troubled children, troubled families, and there is not much time to wait. Honourable coalition ambassadors! Since Mr Stalnukhin rightly pointed out that every other speech started with the problem being raised right, let us think about it and let us not think about whose initiative it was. It doesn't matter, it's important that we protect our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U144	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U145	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, a little clarification of the question left in the air here. Yesterday Forbes describes a little bit more about what happened in the United States with regard to energy drinks. Indeed, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has carried out initial studies on the content of energy drinks and will continue these studies. In September, this topic was also discussed in the Senate. On the same day that the Senate discussed the issue, Monster's energy drink producer fell by 7% on the stock exchange. I believe that our debate here, too, is grateful and has some result. Just a small mid-term note that by September, or nine months, the share of the same company had risen by 54% in total. The problem is seen there in the same way that Estonian food scientists and pediatricians see it. Indeed, caffeine is addictive to children and minors, but even more dangerous is the high proportion and interaction of various substances in energy drinks. For example, one cup, not the whole jar, but one cup of energy drink, gives an adult 8333% of the daily amount of vitamin B12. Caffeine is up to 14 times more in one cup of energy drink depending on the brand than in one jar in Coca-Cola, where caffeine is also in it. Much of the substances in energy drinks are not related to energy or energy consumption at all. So continuing research is certainly necessary and the best thing we can do today is that we, both as parents and as members of educational institutions, are directly monitoring the availability of this drink to children. I would also stress that we have another problem. It is indeed sponsoring sporting events, cultural events. I also want to praise the city of Tallinn, which has indeed been one of Estonia's most advanced in restricting energy drinks. But if we look at this year, there have been several direct energy drinks popularising for young people: Red Bull Music Academy, Saku Suurhall Simpel Session. In Tallinn street space there are events of very aggressively advertised and sponsored tricksters by energy drink manufacturers. We have a number of video games on the Internet that are directly sponsored by energy drink manufacturers. There is a certain contradiction here as to how many people who directly decide on the organisation of youth events each day can resist this publicity. As the United States has been discussing several times, it is a positive example of New York, where, as a separate topic related to coach accreditation and work ethic, energy drinks must be excluded from sports events and coach work at primary and primary school sports events. So much can also be done at local government level. But we are getting to the point of this particular draft. According to its world view, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union believe in human responsibility and responsibility, but we also believe that national regulations are necessary in any case if the consumption of some substances is clearly unhealthy for a person, when health damage becomes a burden to a person and thus to a whole society. We fully agree that energy drinks, especially for children, young people and pregnant mothers, are an issue that needs further regulation. However, we would not like to start every morning by repeating again that the mayor of Tallinn should continue his work, the Prime Minister should continue his work and the Minister of Social Affairs should continue his work. This thing is fully operational. Today's debate has been very grateful. He's probably not rocking the stock market, but he's sure to give a very important signal to all the people on whom this job depends. And as Maret Maripuu has assured us, it will go on in an accelerated and ever-increasing manner. We want to continue and strengthen all those who are already doing this work. This task is already underway, hopefully with an ever-increasing success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U146	Thank you. I understand, Paul-Eerik Rummo, you have a rejoinder?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U147	Thank you. Just because the esteemed Yana Toom gave me an expression that a drum would be hit here, beat a drum. I don't usually use that kind of blurry expression. The idea of my previous reply was that instead of initiating a complex and time-consuming, partly bureaucratic procedure here, everyone who was interested in the subject and who was aching for it would have the opportunity to do something in December, passing their proposals on to the steering group of the population health development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U148	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party Igor Gräzini!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to talk about energy drinks, which are bad things. The fact that this has arisen as a problem is not disputed by anyone. I'm actually a little scared by that attitude. Look, if we don't like something, how can we ignore it? We forbid it and forget it as we did today. We'll hand it over to the government, let them handle it. The government forbids, and then with the help of the Lord, we can forget about it again. Energy drinks remain on the counters, they are sold to minors, beer summers remain, all other bad campaigns financed remain, because banning without a complex approach is not the answer. I would like to draw attention to a very important moment in the speech by my colleague, Liisa Pakosta. He stressed that effective restrictions on energy drinks had been achieved where the state of New York was very correct. I would add a few more places: the county of Saint Joseph in Indiana, Las Vegas, Sierra Nevada. It is precisely there that, with the help of local authorities, there is a restriction on the sale of alcohol, alcohol-like drinks, energy, caffeine-containing drinks. It's been effective, by the way, even on native reservations. I say one very simple thing: if you want to regulate something, if we want to regulate something, then this regulation cannot be the same in Jõhvi, Elva, Haapsalu and Muhu. The problem is that we are trying to relieve the local government of its responsibility for its inhabitants and we want to raise this responsibility in the House of Stenbock. We do not come up with this for the simple reason that the objective is not achieved. When we come back to the US example, the US learned from the ban law that all forms of alcohol, tobacco and other regulations at federal level are doomed to failure. The law on alcohol bans raised Finns to the front row of the countries most intoxicating. I would like to stress from the report that the abuse of all kinds of substances, substances of pleasure, or other fun things, is a complex problem. We forbid one, the others will replace it. Sniffing instead of strokes, strokes instead of drinking, sniffing back instead of drinking etc. Estonian public health is a complex phenomenon. I think that the very important point of today's debate is that we have found and negotiated one important health component, but it needs a complex solution. I am opposed to the considerable separation of responsibility, the complexity of things being solved simply and, after simple solutions, they tend to be forgotten. Lembit, this is a very important subject, but the method is not exactly it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this item contains only presentations by the representatives of the political groups, and Liisa-Ly Pakosta made a presentation as a representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Good colleagues, we've had a round of negotiations. The position of the commission is to reject the draft 246 at the final vote. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows! I'll take the manager's break for three minutes. The sitting will be resumed at 11.23 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U151	Good fellows! The break taken by the manager is over. We interrupted before the final vote, so we will start preparing the final vote again. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 246. Please take a stand and vote. I interrupt the vote. A procedural question. Igor Gräzin, please! A microphone for Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U152	How'd it go now? Did you vote for or against the Commission proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U153	Thank you, good fellow Igor Gräzin! I repeat what I have put to the final vote. The final vote was worded as follows: 'I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. " Then the hammer struck. Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U154	I thought it wasn't as long as you announced. I'm still asking you to stick to what's been announced! That break was shorter. This break wasn't as long as you announced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U155	The intermission lasted three minutes. Took a while. Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U156	Thank you. Do I remember correctly that the adoption of this draft requires 51 votes in favour?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U157	From the perspective of the Governing Commission, this is not going to work. Any more procedural questions? Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U158	Director, there's nothing the lead commission can do here. This is a proposal to the Government of the Republic. This should be a draft, in which presence will also be checked before the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U159	Thank you. I'll take the manager's break for two minutes and let's get this straight. The sitting will be adjourned at 11.28 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U160	I'm saying the formulation was completely accurate. If something goes wrong because half of the hall didn't understand some things, well they didn't understand the idea of this bill, as I understood it, but they didn't understand the exact formulation of a single sentence, so why does everyone else have to suffer because of it? Why must our rules of procedure suffer, how could such a fair occur?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U161	Thank you. As a rapporteur for the Commission, there was no such development in the Commission. However, since you have emphasised the steering group, I would not want to underestimate it. The Government of the Republic has approved the population health development plan and there have been representatives of the political groups from and from the previous Riigikogu. As members of the Riigikogu, we can observe what the executive power does and give direct instructions. I think this is a very good opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U162	Thank you. I myself chaired this part of the sitting and suspended the vote; the President must always ensure that the procedure and its procedures were in place in the Chamber. It seemed to me that there was a big misunderstanding, and that is why I suspended the vote. Any more procedural questions? If not, we will return to the vote. Dear colleagues, before the vote, let me briefly describe what we are voting on and how we are voting. We are in the process of processing the draft decision 246, I will put this draft to the final vote and we will either vote in favour or against it. The second question that was asked by a good fellow official, Eiki Nestor, was whether or not it was a draft requiring a majority in the Riigikogu. This is a draft requiring a majority of the members of the Riigikogu. So thank you for that clarification. Dear colleagues, before the vote, we will carry out a presence check! 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 246. Please take a stand and vote. For 40 members of the Riigikogu, against 8 members of the Riigikogu and 2 abstentions. Since the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party did not collect a majority of the Riigikogu's membership, this draft decision has not been adopted and falls out of the procedure. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U163	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by a member of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the Social Democratic Party Group's draft amendment to the pharmaceutical law. The draft provides for a cost-effective and innovative way to equip medicines sold in Estonia with Russian and English-language leaflets to improve consumer information about the product's properties and safety. I'll start a little further. A year ago, the Salvation Board posters decorated the city of Sillamäe, giving people the opportunity to get a free smoke detector. This was, of course, an extremely welcome campaign that went all over Estonia, but in the city of Sillamäe, the posters had quite extensive and specific information, unfortunately only in Estonian, although the share of Estonians in the city of Sillamäe is only 3%. You can guess how many bridgemounters that really needed information about the benefits offered by the state. Before anyone wants to say that let us learn Estonian, please think seriously about the following figures! In the first four months of this year 32 people died of fire in Estonia, 10 of them, or a whole third of them in Ida-Virumaa. By comparison, the population of three times the size of Harjumaa had five, or twice the number of victims of fire. I don't know, maybe adding a Russian text to that poster would have prevented one of those victims. There is certainly a need to learn the language of the state, which is not disputed by any person in Estonia, but can the ability to speak the national language of the 21st century in Europe be a condition of survival? I don't think so. Why am I talking about this? Often, especially after certain events five years ago, we are told that Estonians and Russian Estonians live in different information fields. That is a lot of the case, but I think that the problem is a little too narrow. Rather, we should talk about the overall informational inequalities between Estonians and those speaking Russian. Of course, Estonian sociologists have noticed this, and unlike previous integration plans, the current integration plan for 2008-2013 includes a separate chapter on economic and social integration, in addition to the focus on linguistic and educational integration. According to this, the broader objective of the integration plan is to ensure equal opportunities for social coping regardless of nationality, mother tongue or place of residence. Among other things, one way of achieving this objective is to improve the availability of information as a public service for people speaking different mother tongues, of course, in their mother tongue. The government has agreed to the recommendations of sociologists and to the integration plan. The current coalition agreement also says: "The goal of the government union is to ensure equal opportunities for successful livelihood and well-being for all people living in Estonia, regardless of nationality and mother tongue. " I would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister, who agrees with the need to provide people speaking in another language with the information they understand. On 28 May, he replied to the Social Democrats' inquiry from this very point of view, saying that it was essential to provide information to citizens in such a way that it would also be acceptable for it to be understandable and unambiguously interpreted. Therefore, this draft is indeed a good draft, which (a) helps to meet the objectives set out in the National Integration Plan, (b) is in line with the Coalition Agreement, and (c) the principle of which is also supported by the Prime Minister. In addition, a survey was carried out in the framework of the 2008 integration monitoring by the Estonian public, which examined, among other things, whether the guidelines for medicines and health information should be translated into Russian. 90% of the Russian-speaking respondents, as expected, said that this information should definitely be translated into Russian, and 9% said that perhaps it would. But also among the Estonian respondents, this percentage was high: 62% said that this information should definitely be translated into Russian, and 28% thought that it might be. In other words, only 10% of Estonians and 1% of Russians are not in favour of it at all. For most medicines sold in Estonia, pharmaceutical manufacturers have placed us in the so-called Baltic Package Group, which means that our leaflets are generally in Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian. The bill provides that when buying a medicinal product, the consumer may, if he wishes, receive a Russian or English-language leaflet in addition to the Estonian-language leaflet. The draft is motivated by a real problem. For example, several members of the Riigikogu have also been written by Russian-speaking citizens who have added their medicine leaflet to the letter and asked them to explain to me what I got from the pharmacy and how to take it. There have been cases where such a question is addressed to local government officials or to lawyers providing legal aid. I'm sure it's a waste of time for these people. But the problem is even greater: most of the consumers of the medicinal product, without understanding the Estonian, Latvian or Lithuanian texts, do not, of course, go anywhere and simply take medicines without knowing the exact effects, side effects and contraindications of the medicinal product. If you don't take the wrong dose, sometimes nothing happens to you but to waste people's money on medicines, but in some cases it's obviously dangerous to people's health. § 28 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that everyone has the right to health protection. This right is not only for a third of Estonians who speak Russian at home, but also for all foreigners who stay in Estonia temporarily or for a longer period, whether they are foreign students, Scandinavians who consume health services, top specialists and foreign entrepreneurs or just tourists. From the point of view of the Estonian state, it is pragmatic to make these people feel good and healthy here, and that is why we have also proposed the possibility of receiving English-language newsletters in the draft. If you have ever had to obtain medicines in a foreign country in case of a more specific complaint, you will know how important it is to have a leaflet in a common European language. In order to prevent some questions about the rise in the price of the medicinal product and the additional burden on the manufacturers, I would like to say a few words about the history and technical content of this draft. We have worked on this bill for a long time and very thoroughly. The original version of the draft law envisaged a very simple concept whereby distributors would be obliged by law to include Russian and English texts in the newsletters. We sent this draft to the coordination circle and received very important feedback from six organisations. The coordination table is available in the draft explanatory memorandum; you can read the opinions that are literally set out in the draft explanatory memorandum. In conclusion, most organisations basically supported the idea, but saw two errors in our draft. Firstly, there is the possibility that putting translation obligations on distributors would not be in line with the European Union Directive. Secondly, the imposition of an undertaking on the distributor will ultimately increase the price of the medicinal product. Neither of these options was acceptable to the initiators, of course, and that is why we have substantially revised the draft. According to the new draft, which is in front of you, the Agency will organise the translation of factsheets and the inclusion of translations in the Register of Medicinal Products. This does not, of course, mean translating all texts from scratch, as for most medicines these leaflets already exist in other countries, in Britain and Russia, respectively. These texts simply need to be received, checked and confirmed. The coordination circle also raised the problem that adding two additional languages to the leaflet may not be physically possible for some medicines because the package of medicine is very small. Therefore, in the spirit of the Estonian e-Governance, we have offered a solution that the buyer of the medicinal product can ask the pharmacist, if he wishes, to print out a leaflet in Russian or English from the pharmaceutical register directly at the pharmacy. Given that all our pharmacies need to be connected to the Internet to manage digital prescription, it requires only a small IT development. Therefore, with the new concept, we have removed all the objections raised by the social partners to us, and I believe that they will all support the draft as it stands. However, this bill is not supported by the Government of the Republic. Since the opinion refers essentially to the opinion of the Agency on the draft, it makes sense to comment on the latter. Firstly, it should be noted that the Agency agrees with the Socialists that better information on medicines is clearly needed for non-lingual consumers and welcomes our initiative. The negative view on our draft therefore lies not in fundamental opposition, but in two important misunderstandings between the initiator and the Agency. In its opinion, the Agency states that the expenditure needed to implement the draft is too high in a situation where they lack the means to improve initial supervision of medicines. On behalf of the initiators, I would like to confirm that we have never thought that the costs necessary to implement the obligation to carry out translations should be found by the Agency at the expense of internal resources. No, additional resources should be provided for the Agency in the state budget for this purpose. Secondly, the initiators of the draft have foreseen the need for two additional posts for the Agency, which would then arrange translations in Russian and English. This would cost, in our opinion, nearly EUR 50000 per year. Since, unfortunately, the initiators and the Agency did not understand the draft text in the same way, the Agency has seen the preparation of new documents as a duty not only to obtain and validate translations of the factsheets, but also to implement the draft. They have therefore taken into account the need to create four posts in order to fulfil the additional obligations. In this case, the estimated cost would be close to EUR 100000 per year. This misunderstanding is due to a lack of definition of terms in the pharmaceutical law, which I referred to in the Committee on Social Affairs, and on which I have put a written question to the Minister for Social Affairs today. There is no answer to this yet, but I assure you that the initiators aim to give the Agency the maximum freedom to carry out translations so that they can do so as cost-effectively as possible. We don't want any new certified documents. We therefore believe that this work will be carried out with two additional posts, and the cost of implementing the draft is EUR 50000 per year, not from the internal resources of the Agency, but from the state budget. The position of the Agency and the Government also refer to some other technical nuances in the implementing provisions. In this regard, we are certainly open to constructive cooperation and ready to introduce changes to the draft. Thus, the Agency basically supports the implementation of the draft if the Riigikogu finds the necessary additional resources for this purpose. I believe that, following the clarification of the misunderstandings I have referred to, the Government of the Republic would also support this draft. Ladies and gentlemen, All I have to say is that you and I can do one big, beautiful and important thing for many Estonian residents and Estonian guests, gradually providing information on all the medicines sold in two languages, in addition to all of them, for just 50,000 euros a year. Think how often we can do something that is so good and at the same time so cheap. I'm counting on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U165	Thank you, good waitress. You have a lot of questions. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! According to the Constitution, Estonian is the official language of Estonia and therefore the obligation to add information in Estonian to all products. There is no constitutional obligation to add information in other languages, but there is no obstacle, which means that the seller can always add information in other languages if he considers it appropriate and necessary. If you look at the many products that are sold in Estonia, that is the case. In most cases, they have information in perhaps 10 or 15 languages, and it is not legally sanctioned or compulsory at all. Should it not be the same in the case of medicinal products that the information remains the responsibility of the seller, because the seller is interested in understanding this information, and this should not necessarily result in an obligation under the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U167	Thank you. As regards your reference to the Constitution and the fact that information must be available in Estonian, of course, no one will argue against it. As far as volunteering is concerned, it would, of course, be very nice in theory if it were, and we should not regulate it by law. But in practice we see, and in our opinion the pharmaceutical industry also pointed out, that in general our medicines are in the so-called Baltic package, and there are no Russian and English texts there. It is also debatable whether pharmaceutical companies are very interested in the extent to which medicines are used safely and correctly. They would probably not be too upset if, for example, their medications were consumed more than they were supposed to be. Ultimately, it is still a question of us helping our Estonian compatriots to cope socially. Of course, all constitutional values must continue to apply, but, as I have pointed out, the integration plan provides that, at least at the current stage of integration, it is necessary to inform our citizens in other languages as well, in order to ensure social equality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U168	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U169	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! I, too, believe that if problems arise, especially with understanding the content of a medicine, then the state, not the private sector, must take responsibility and put instructions for medicines into Russian and also into English, because we have a lot of tourists. You said that, in principle, the Agency supported this proposal, but provided that additional resources were made available. When you defended the bill in the committee, did you think that the debate was substantive and really everyone agreed that it was necessary, and it started to discuss where the money could be found, or was it the reason you were looking for to sink the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U170	Thank you. The following rapporteur, the Commission's rapporteur, will certainly be more specific about the Commission's discussions. During my presence in the Commission, these issues were not discussed and the coalition ambassadors, must say, did not ask any questions. So they probably agree with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U171	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U172	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! There was this debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, but I remember the comments from the coalition, your answers I don't remember. There was, among other things, an argument that, first of all, every pharmacist is obliged to provide information, though only in Estonian, but still, and on the box it is written, how many times a day you have to take one thing or another, whether it is not enough. Please respond to these arguments here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U173	Thank you. When it comes to pharmacists, they're like doctors. They must help people, no matter what language they speak, that is clear, and in that sense, many of the colleagues who have referred to this point are right. The question is, of course, that the professional requirements provide for the proficiency of Estonian at C1 level, but there is no requirement for any other language. Once again: through self-regulation, some pharmacies, in fact very many pharmacies ensure that their pharmacists speak foreign languages. However, this is not a statutory obligation and it does not work like that everywhere. As regards the fact that we do not need any leaflets there at all, because we have pharmacists who explain the matter, I think we all know about the practice that limits the explanation of pharmacists: to write on the box how many pieces must be taken from the recipe or from the box itself. But the information about the substance of the medicine, side effects, contra-indications, etc., is of course not available at the pharmacy and the pharmacist does not give it to him. That is why it is the obligation of the package leaflet that a person should take this page home and read it peacefully before he or she starts taking the medicine.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U174	Thank you very much. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U175	Thank you. I have a lot of experience where I've gone to buy a drug I don't know before, and the seller has offered me very thorough prints without even asking for it. They are written in considerably larger letters than the package leaflet accompanying the medicinal product and introduce this medicinal product in all its aspects in a very thorough, far more comprehensive manner than these leaflets. In my opinion, this attitude is very strong for Estonian pharmaceutical sellers. I also very much doubt that pharmaceutical manufacturers, pharmaceutical distributors, would be interested in misusing the medicines they produce or mediate, because it is quite certain that if someone's health is harmed by misusing, cases are imminent. So I'm asking you, isn't it...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U176	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U177	I did not hear the question, but as regards your first remark that some pharmaceutical manufacturers have gone beyond the obligations laid down by law, which is what the law obliges consumers to be informed, it is partly correct. But once again, this is not a common practice and the language question remains here. As regards the interest of pharmaceutical manufacturers in the proper use of medicines, perhaps I expressed myself badly. I certainly do not think that pharmaceutical manufacturers would be interested in consumers of these medicines developing serious health problems or dying. However, it is rather the responsibility of our social system to ensure that consumers still take medicines correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U178	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U179	Thank you. Honourable waitress! After all, we have a provision in the Law of Obligations Act that says that if you go to a doctor, you have the right to ask him for written instructions on how to proceed or for explanations that are more accurately wrong with you. When you come out of the hospital, for example, when you come from an operation, you usually get paper that you have to do, how to take your medicine, etc. My question now is that the pharmacist may explain to you what you are asking about the medicine, but all these contraindications, sometimes there are 20, 30, maybe you shouldn't take one or the other medicine with the drug that you're buying, it's not something anyone can remember. And if the pharmacist, the pharmacist, was going to explain everything exactly, it would be a long line. Don't you think there should be an analogous situation here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U180	Question time is over! Ladies and gentlemen, you really are not here to ask for the first time. The question must be asked within a minute, not a speech. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U181	I was already referring to the logic that we have pharmacists and doctors who explain everything, you could say that we don't need any medicine leaflets, that that's when everything will be explained. In reality, of course, it is exactly as you said. Even in a situation where a pharmacist is able to explain the medicine in a language that he understands, this explanation is never comprehensive enough and does not deal with very important things, as you said, interactions, contraindications, etc. That is why this draft is partly motivated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U182	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U183	Thank you. When you answered Yana Toom's question, I think you clearly misjudged the work of pharmacists. I personally have experience to the contrary that due to the client's language skills, all possible effects will be fully explained both when prescribing prescription medicines and when purchasing prescription medicines. Do you really have the experience that you have been prescribed a prescription and that no one has given any explanation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U184	I'm not saying it's a general practice. And, as I said, a lot of pharmacists and pharmaceutical companies consider it important that they can explain to buyers how to use the medicine properly. However, since this is not regulated by law, language skills are not always the case in practice. There are certainly good examples, there are bad examples. As Tallinn-centred people, we certainly have more good examples than in some rural areas where it is not possible to get people to work who speak these languages. And since there is no such obligation in the law, it is clear that there are very many cases where there are really problems. In the end, I repeat again: even if the pharmacist can explain to you, the fact that he is not going to explain the entire leaflet to you does not change the fact that he does not know what kind of medication you are taking yet and what other contraindications you have. It would be unreasonable to oblige a pharmacist to tell you for an hour how to take the medicine. This includes leaflets that can be read peacefully at home and then safely use the medicine.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U185	Thank you, dear waitress. A few weeks ago, when we were discussing a proposal from the Chancellor of Justice regarding the pharmacy, several of your party associates found that over-the-counter medicines could be sold in shops alongside pharmacies. I'd like to ask for your assessment. Should such a change actually come into force in Estonia at any time, in a situation where people have to ask for information about dosing, contra-indications and side effects, not from the pharmacist, but from the seller of the shop, the need for a Russian-language leaflet, for example, which says whether to take the medicine before or after a meal, or what other medicines to avoid it, increases or decreases?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U186	Thank you. This issue was not discussed in the Commission, and I hope that the Members of the Commission will not mind if I bring out my personal opinion here. I think that allowing over-the-counter medicines to trade, gas stations, requires a very thorough analysis. We should also look at what has been the practice of countries where it is allowed, what these effects are. But, of course, when such decisions are made, it is necessary to review very precisely how information is provided to the consumer and how much to train people who sell these medicines, because the initial advice must in any case remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U187	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U188	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I called my family doctor today and asked him how much he was exposed every day to the fact that pensioners and people were even taking the medication wrong from ignorance. He said it happens from time to time. Therefore, I ask: did your committee not intend to ask before this bill was referred to as a red light, for example, by the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Health Insurance Fund for an analysis of the cost to the health insurance fund of treatment procedures related to the misuse of medicines? Perhaps this ratio should be out of there and EUR 50000 or even EUR 100000, depending on how to deal with it, would not be such a cost, given the potential benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U189	Thank you. We didn't ask Social Affairs and Health Insurance for an analysis. However, we did have the opinion of the Agency, the view that this EUR 100000 could be used more effectively to improve supervision of medicines, as well as to promote medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U190	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U191	Good waitress! The greatest initiative of salt-blowing is all the cover letters contained in the medicine packs, which give everyone the impression that they understand how this medicine works, and that is where this misuse comes from. As a patient, I really care about one thing: how many times and where to put it and where to call if I feel bad? But while we're talking about these things, now I'm representing my Russian voter here. I mean, we Russians have a very big tradition of salt-blowing, and there are all kinds of them. President Medvedev has said a great deal about this in his time. In this connection, I ask: did this matter run through the Commission in any way? How has Russia, in its multi-ethnicity, resolved the issue of translating and making these prescriptions well into many languages? How are we, say, the Russian majority trying to solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U192	Thank you. This was not discussed by the Commission. Perhaps the initiator would have been able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U193	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U194	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Since this bill was indeed dealt with for quite a long time or at least before the draft was submitted, the subject was discussed for quite a long time, I communicated with foreign students studying at Tallinn University. As an example, they too pointed out that they have been struggling to get medicine from the pharmacy, even digital prescription, because they cannot read everything in Estonian. They have asked for help from their fellow students. Estonia is a well-known and well-known country that is trying to help the peoples of Europe and everyone at all. Can we not see that the draft has been presented in support of both Russian and English translations? This is also a problem for our guests and the people coming to work here who are increasingly arriving here. Was this also discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U195	Thank you. This was not discussed in the Commission. However, I do recall that the 2005 Decree of the Minister for Social Affairs No 30 sets out exactly what and how pharmacists should advise when buying a medicine. When we talk about foreign students, residents of other languages, I believe that while living in Estonia, they know at least one Estonian, and this could be the first opportunity to ask their friends or neighbours for help if they cannot read this leaflet on their own. Until we get so much richer that we can translate it into all languages.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U196	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U197	Thank you. Dear waitress, Releading to what you just said. As you have noted, I have pointed out that especially in my constituency, i.e. Ida-Viru County, it is often not close to taking the Estonian to ask for help. That is why the members of the Riigikogu, the officials of the city administration and legal assistance are addressed to lawyers. The argument that you can go to a friend is doubtful. You have read well the position of the government and the Agency, but since you have already expressed a personal opinion here, which you personally believe: is EUR 100000, if there is even so much, a huge cost for our residents and guests to ensure that there are two additional languages? Was it discussed in the Commission how much this cost is and could it not be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U198	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U199	Thank you. In your presentation, you quoted the opinion of the Agency that it is unreasonable to implement this draft as it concerns only a small part of the population. Considering that nearly a third of the Estonian population speaks Russian at home and does not generally speak Estonian on an adequate level, it is a bit strange to think that it is a small part of the population. Am I right to understand that this view is that this is a large proportion of the population, but this smallness is due to a certain moral assessment that it is not as important to protect the health of these people as it is to protect the health of any other part?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U200	I don't think that's the correct interpretation. The question was that when we talk about EUR 100000, which is a large amount, how to use this money to make the most of it. The Agency pointed out that if they had the extra money to use, it would be most important for them now to channel this money into improving the quality and safety of medicines, as well as to increase the monitoring of advertising for medicines. That was what the Agency pointed out in its reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U201	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U202	I would like to ask: did the Commission also have the idea of making an amendment to the increase in the costs of the Agency when dealing with the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U203	Thank you. We did not deal with this in the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U204	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U205	Thank you. My colleague, Deniss Borodich, quoted a section of the Constitution that says that everyone has a right to health protection. How do you feel about this right arising from the ability to possess a national language or is it universal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U206	Thank you. Everyone has the right to health protection, a separate question is how we incorporate this legal term. I think one important issue is that we know that the medicines that are sold at the pharmacy are really high quality and safe. And as I said earlier, when a country has scarce resources, we need to see how best to use them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U207	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Maret Maripuu! Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U208	Thank you. I have a very short line because I basically told you everything about this bill. Overall, the opposition's draft is rejected for three reasons: firstly, it is a very good initiative, but implementation is too expensive; secondly, it is in conflict with the coalition agreement; thirdly, there is no point in implementing the draft because the government is developing a complex solution (this we saw when we dealt with the previous item on the agenda). This draft does not contain any of these elements. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to me how it can be said to support the view of the Agency that the implementation of this draft is unreasonable. There have been various opinions here since the fact that basically there is no point in informing our other - language countrymen. The main argument has been that it would be nice if we did it, but there is no money. Well, come on, it's $50,000 a year, according to the Agency's calculations, $100,000 a year. Of course, every euro is in healthcare and everywhere else, but it is still a ridiculously small amount, compared to what we would achieve: we could supply all medicines with leaflets in two additional languages. By comparison, we could probably follow Mikk Salu's call from a couple of weeks ago to take our mother-in-law out of the closet, but that's not what I'm doing. Let us compare that, even in the case of 100000, this amount is the same per year, even less than the total cost benefits of members of the Riigikogu in one month. By this I do not want to say that we must certainly reduce the cost compensation, although it would probably be very popular. I would like to say that the argument that we cannot find 100,000 out of a budget of EUR 7.5 billion in order to do an important thing is still completely insane. So I can identify two reasons why coalition ambassadors could potentially vote against this draft in the Commission without any internal questions or objections to the draft. First of all, the opinion that Parliament is a rubber stamp is well-established in the public eye, and if we are a rubber stamp of the government, what are we still arguing about here? If the government said no, we vote the same way. The second option is that, despite what has been written in our integration plan, despite the beautiful words on the points of the coalition agreement, we do not want to do anything for Russian-speaking and non-Russian compatriots in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U209	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U210	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk about a number of things. I'll mark those parts. Part one, domestic policy. I understand that over the years, all the opportunities to do something useful for the Russian-speaking population have been rejected because some of our leading parties have an idea that they will then lose their voters. Perhaps this was the case at one time, but today we heard that if the Russians would rather support or strongly support this leaflet 99%, then among Estonians 90% will support or rather support it. This dull rejection may come back as a political minus, because even the Estonians can no longer understand why this is so excited when a particular problem needs to be solved. Rather, we need to see how these problems are resolved elsewhere. Seven years ago, I was in New York and visited a municipal institution that was involved in disseminating information to the people of New York. There I saw with my own eyes the printed brochures in twelve languages. Unfortunately, I do not remember that in the New York population this ethnic or language group had to exceed 2% or 3%. When this figure was received, the same information was mechanically printed for them and transmitted in other forms in their language. A few years ago, I read that there was a thirteenth such a group of national languages, and accordingly it was reacted. When I asked you how many languages the phone answered, this number was three digits, over 100, I can't remember exactly, seven years have passed, but it was more than 100. What problem do these leaflets solve in normal life? Yeah, really, if I've been to the pharmacy and bought some kind of medication, it hasn't been that long since I've had a pharmacist to tell me how many times a day and how many pills I have to take. The problem arises later because medicines, such as pills, have a strange habit of sometimes being left over and gathering in a box somewhere. At a certain point, for example, when a child gets sick, there is a problem to give him. And when it comes to Friday night, you have no longer to rely on anyone but yourself. There are a lot of pills and boxes there, and a person who does not speak the Estonian language or other language in which the instructions are given cannot simply remember or explain what kind of medicine needs to be given. That's a problem! I wonder how this thing is rejected on the pretext that there is no money. If any object is built and more than 100 million more money is spent than was planned, such as the cross of freedom, this is not the problem. We demand back, we demand about EUR 7 million from those who wasted this money, and then we have the means to solve a number of problems! The Constitution has also been discussed here today. It has not been said that a third of the population is just like all the rest of the taxpayers. They also pay social tax, and it goes in the direction that ensures that we receive medicines. This is a restriction of human rights! Finally, I kept this information that every two years the Euro Committee will be the subject of reviews. The latter specifically mentioned that there is a lot of useful information to which no translation has been added and there is limited access. So today we are solving a very important practical problem for the second time, and for the second time in this Chamber there is a purely political tantrum where it is not wanted to be done, where a member of the Riigikogu in the course of debates promises to offend the people of North-East Estonia, and it seems to me that this is already going beyond all kinds of borders. Colleagues, I call on you! That's a very long time ago. You understand that the Agency doesn't object. You do realize that the amount of 50,000 is not a problem to find out about the budget, the volume of which is 7 billion. Support! Be good and help the people of Estonia, some of them are your voters!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U211	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U212	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, especially fellow parties, fellow coalitioners. I would like to emphasise that everything that has been said here has nothing to do with this, with medicines, languages, etc. That's not the issue at all! I say what is the subject and why it must be categorically opposed: it is pointless, it is illegal state subsidies from one industry. Its idea is to ruin the market once again and the problem of market violations is not in the million; there would even be ten euros of illegal subsidies too much. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U213	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject this draft at first reading, we must vote on it. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 41 votes for, 28 against, no abstentions. The proposal has been supported. Bill 252 has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for today's sitting has been exhausted. I wish you all a beautiful day. Closure of the sitting at 12.51 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U214	Thank you. The manufacturers and distributors of medicines are certainly interested in having their goods, in this case medicines, sold more and the buyers being informed people. The manufacturers and sellers of medicines are certainly not interested in creating dangerous situations due to the inability of the patient or client, which bring them very costly cases, as has happened repeatedly in the world in the case of the distribution and sale of medicines. Why should such producers' and sellers' interests be covered by the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U215	Thank you. I think I already told you that by answering your previous question. We see in practice that producers and sellers do not have enough economic incentives to organise translation and offer leaflets in Russian and English, as this clearly means additional costs for them. I do not want to argue about the motives of pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors. I'm not saying they're all evil people who only think about how to make more money, but practice is practice. We receive most of the medicines in the so-called Baltic pack, where the leaflet is in Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U216	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U217	Thank you. First, the line. I think that the pharmacists in the country pharmacies are doing a fantastic job in all the languages they need. But now the question. In your response, you stressed that the patient will see from the leaflet what the contraindications are for the use of the medicine and that some medicines may be contraindicated in humans at all. Should it not be known to your doctor that the prescription can be contraindicated in humans? If there is a problem in this area, should we not solve another problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U218	Thank you. In the case of prescription medicines, this problem is likely to be lower. However, this draft concerns all medicinal products, including over-the-counter medicinal products, which have not been subjected to a thorough medical consultation. I do not know what kind of statistics I can bring here, what an important problem this is when the doctor has been consulted in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U219	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U220	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Do I have the right impression after the discussion and examination of these materials that the Ministry of Social Affairs' main objection was that it would do it, but the money is scarce? Fortunately, this time I did not read from the government's point of view that language and other things, but that it was just about money, if there was money, it would have been done. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U221	I have already referred to the fact that we had a misunderstanding with the Agency on the use of certain concepts. I hope I cleared that up. In addition, the main objection was, I quote the Government's decision, which you have not read: 'The costs of realising proposals are considerably higher than the benefits expected from the draft. '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U222	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U223	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The reason why I raised the issue of the QR code, or as a minimum program, at least a specific, precise web address, is that these outer packagings and leaflets tend to disappear, but what is definitely in the hands of a person is the same grass itself with its own label. QR codes are cross-cultural, linguistic and transnational, they are unambiguously understandable and take you to a very specific website with product information above. The pharmaceutical companies are currently placing on the manufacturer, but it is very difficult to find explanations on specific grass on the GlaxoSmithKline website, for example. It is precisely the reference to the leaflet that should be made unambiguously. Are you willing to consider this as a complement to your bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U224	Sure. However, there might be the same problem as the original version of our draft. Pharmaceutical manufacturers may say that the QR code does not fit on their packaging and therefore larger packages, which require high costs, are needed. I'm not sure if that's the case, in any case, we should negotiate with them. But basically, I'm sure we'll agree. I think, of course, that ultimately, in some distant future, this issue is the issue of the regulation of the European Union, that there is a single Register of Medicinal Products in all the official languages of the European Union, and that it would be possible to obtain it either through a QR code or through a web address.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U225	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U226	Thank you, good waitress. Liisa-Ly Pakosta asked me if you should have talked to the doctor before you bought the medicine. It is often the information in the leaflet that can cause headaches, blood pressure may rise, etc., that the person then knows that these pills are more harmful to him than useful to him. I understand that that is why the leaflet is particularly useful afterwards. Is that what you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U227	I have already answered a similar question several times. Yeah, that's what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U228	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Evgeny Ossinovski. I would like to ask for a co-report from Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U229	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Drug Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, 252 at its meeting on 16 October. Evgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, introduced the draft to the Commission on behalf of the initiators. Tairi Välinurm, chief medical specialist at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Kaili Lellep, legal adviser to the Agency, were invited to the meeting. The Agency's representative noted that the Agency welcomes this idea, but the main problem with its implementation is the lack of money. In a situation where the state lacks funds to improve the supervision of primary medicines, to ensure better protection of public health, it is not appropriate to direct a significant part of the state's resources towards translating information into Russian and English. Such a change is justified only if the country has carried out initial surveillance activities to improve the protection of human health. The Agency was not only in favour of translating partial information from the package leaflet. The package leaflet contains significantly more information than the formulation, indication, posology and maintenance of the medicinal product for safe and effective use. The Agency considers that, if translated, the information in this leaflet should be fully translated. If the Agency has to translate itself or arrange for translation, it is not enough to create two additional jobs. They estimate that four jobs would be needed and the total cost would be EUR 100000. The Agency also considers that the proposed reduction in costs and workload in pharmacies is not feasible with the draft as the obligation for pharmacists and pharmacists to communicate orally the correct and safe use of the medicinal product is maintained. The initiators' representative here replied to the Agency that the costs of the draft are not to be covered by the Agency's available resources, but are to be covered by the state budget. The initiators said that the primary aim of the draft is certainly not to reduce the workload of pharmacies but to better inform them. At the same time, the Agency noted that the draft provides for an obligation for pharmacies to include, at the request of the recipient, a print-out from the Register of Medicinal Products with information in Russian or English on the formulation, content, use and maintenance of the medicinal product. Therefore, all pharmacies must have the possibility to print out this information, which could entail considerable costs for pharmacies in smaller regions. The originator asked the Commission what the assessment of the Agency means that the cost of implementing the draft is higher than the expected benefit. The Agency's representative replied that the proposed changes affect only a part of the population, and it is more important to focus primarily on activities that concern everyone: supervision of medicines, their quality, improvement of safety, and more and better supervision of pharmaceutical advertising. On the basis of the above, the Commission made the following proposals: Firstly, send the draft to the plenary agenda for first reading on 25 October. There were three members of the Commission in favour of the proposal to close the first reading, five against and no abstentions. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U230	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U231	Thank you. Did the Commission not find the same last sentence that you said that the cost of this draft is greater than the benefits there would be too cynical?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U232	The Commission discussed that when resources are scarce, choices must be made. The Agency considered that, should there be any possibility of additional funding, this should in particular contribute to the supervision of medicinal products, as well as to the prevention of illicit circulation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, as well as to the promotion of medicinal products and the improvement of pharmacovigilance. So these were the weights that were compared. However, as I said at the beginning, the Agency thinks this is a worthwhile proposal, but since they have not received any additional money in five years, the priorities I have outlined are now more important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U233	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U234	Thank you. I think every member of the Riigikogu will be happy when the voters turn to him. If you communicate with people in this way, it will only provide a more secure guarantee that you will be re-elected and can continue to deal with the important issue. I think that there is also a very large euro in the social field when we look at how much money is missing in our area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U235	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have a very simple question. You pointed out that this information is in three languages, usually in Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian. Here is the question: is Latvian and Lithuanian more justified than this proposal for information to be in Russian and English? Can English and Russian not be justified as well as is currently justified in the case of Latvian and Lithuanian?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U236	Thank you. The initiator here explained that these are the packages produced for the Baltic market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U237	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U238	Thank you. You said that one euro is also very important in the social field. This bill costs a little more than one euro, and as you mentioned, the Agency estimates that there are very many things that have not been resolved reasonably in five years. How do you feel about whether we will ever have so many resources, or whether we will be able to solve our social problems so well that there will be enough euro available in the future to set up these newsletters?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U239	Thank you. I think the answer depends on whether the respondent is an optimist or a pessimist. I'm trying to be an optimist.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U240	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U241	Here under the window, a colleague said that EUR 1.5 million in health care is to sleep and sleep, no matter who comes up to who it is! But in my opinion, the problem is that selling a drug is a pharmacist's interest. He wants to sell the cure and make a profit. In my opinion, it would be extremely foolish to sell a drug that no one understands, and especially that could lead to a fatal outcome. It's the second time a person doesn't want that kind of medicine anymore. But I am actually terribly disturbed by another thing, that the Estonian explanatory memorandum accompanying medicinal products is not quite understandable to the majority of people. Did this come up in connection with the language issue? Perhaps we would use this money, if not 1.5 million, at least 1 million so that the explanation can be understood in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U242	Thank you. We were talking about EUR 100000. All pharmaceuticals are complex and intelligible, I think it is a subject that can always be argued over for a long time. I don't know how to comment here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U243	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U244	Thanks! When it comes to the Russian-speaking population and Ida-Virumaa, it is strange, on the one hand, that people who do not want to comply with the laws of the country want absolute treatment from the state. Another thing I doubt is that if Ossinovski is called by a patient and asked to translate how to use the medicine, Ossinovski could kill him. Thirdly, the question is that, if it has come up at all, maybe the seller should be obliged to put this information on his own and leave the country alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U245	Thank you. I think that if we advise our acquaintances or translate the leaflet to them, it cannot be harmful to health, because the doctor has, above all, prescribed the medicine and after that, the pharmacist will advise you on how to take the medicine. You offered to let the manufacturer or the seller do it, but then we have to consider that we have to pay for it ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U246	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The medicine package has so-called Baltic information on it, and the door also asked for an opinion on how Russia would solve one question or another. Has the Commission discussed how, for example in Latvia or Lithuania, Latvia in particular, because the share of the population in other languages is much higher than the share of the information on the packaging of medicines has been resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U248	Thank you. This was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U249	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is very difficult for me to ask about the issues discussed by the Commission, because when I examined the protocol, it turned out that there were no questions for the rapporteur, although there was a vote in favour of rejecting the draft. However, I ask: do you not think that pharmaceutical instructions, national instructions would really help to protect health better, and this would be in line with § 28 of the Estonian Constitution that everyone has the right to health protection. These instructions for medicines would also give this protection to people who may not understand Estonian, Latvian or Lithuanian.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U251	Thank you. I think there's been some confusion because there were questions for the initiator, and I quoted them earlier. As I said, pharmacists are obliged to tell the person who bought the medicine how to take the medicine and what to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U252	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U253	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U254	Thanks! I have a question of two parts. First of all, the technical side. I didn't understand, once you said it would cost 50,000 euros a year, and the second time you said 5,000 euros. It needs to be specified. And another thing. There are many interesting languages and great nations in the world, such as the Chinese people. We can't legitimize the printing of all these languages on our medicine boxes. This thing's already working, what's the point? It's a waste of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U255	Thank you. As for the first question, I was still thinking 50,000. If I said 5,000, I'm sorry! As for the fact that there are many languages in the world, of course. Such legislative initiatives must, of course, consider whether it is reasonable to introduce an additional language obligation. Given the percentage of our Chinese-speaking population, it is likely to be disproportionately costly. However, since one third of our citizens' home language is Russian, this question is completely different. I cannot agree in any way that this is a pointless thing that nobody cares about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U256	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U257	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Unlike my colleague, Yana Toomi, who claims that the pharmacist writes on the package how many times a day he has to take the medicine, I have had many times that the pharmacist has forgotten about it. It's human, too, that you can't always remember such a thing. Furthermore, outside packaging is usually discarded and content is avoided. Have you, the drafters, also thought that maybe the information should be available in a mandatory digital way according to the QR code on the drug itself or the website that a person can access? These same leaflets tend to be very small, there is a lot of information, the leaves are thin, they disappear, so there is nothing left of this information, not to mention how many times a day you have to take the medicine. If all this information is available on the web, you can increase the writing point there, you don't have to look with the glass or the glass, maybe it'll help, what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U258	Thank you. If you look at the draft, the concept is that the Agency organises translation and puts translations in a pharmaceutical register that is online. So that's what our goal is to have digital access to information. Your proposal for a QR code on the pack may also be considered. We have foreseen that the package leaflet will in general remain the same as it is now, but if a person goes to the pharmacy and asks that he or she would like to receive a leaflet in Russian or English, the pharmacist will print it out of the pharmaceutical register for him or her. This is for people who cannot access the Internet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U259	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U260	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I am pleased that the Social Democrats continued to take the initiative of the Centre Party, which came out a few years ago. I think you're familiar with the materials, how this discussion went, what the pros and cons were. As far as I have heard the debate in the Chamber at the moment, there is practically the same scenario. Or do you think today, when you brought this bill before us, you have new arguments, and if so, what?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U261	I think I actually explained it, but I'll repeat it once again. It is not possible or unreasonable, perhaps not possible, but it is certainly not reasonable to impose such a burden on pharmaceutical manufacturers by law, the obligation to translate the leaflets into additional languages. As I was referring to, there may be a contradiction with the European Union directive, which states that the requirements for the package leaflet must not complicate cross-border trade in the internal market of the European Union, and the addition of additional languages could do so. On the other hand, it would probably also increase the price of the medicine. To what extent this would increase, we haven't analyzed it, maybe it's a very small amount. However, in any case, it is perfectly understandable that if additional obligations are imposed on the manufacturer, the manufacturer will simply increase the price of the medicinal product in order to come out at its own expense. In our concept, translation is organized by the Agency and carried out in a cost-effective way. They are digitally placed in the Register of Medicinal Products, the translation is not directly included in the package of medicinal products, but printed out to the consumer at the pharmacy on request.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-25_U262	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, second question!
