ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! Thirty-eight delegates registered as present, 63 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U2	Let's start by answering questions. Ladies and gentlemen, since you have quite a number of questions today, I can promise at most three questions registered on the ground. The first question is put by my colleague, Mr Simson, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U3	Prime Minister! The last time we exchanged views on excise policy in the same format, you replied that the Estonian state is collecting excise duties on fuel for paying salaries to teachers and paying social benefits and pensions. We also know that the financing of road maintenance pursuant to § 16 of the Road Act is directly linked to the expected receipt of excise duties on fuel. Is the money from excise duties still used for the purpose of improving roads, or have we reached a situation in Estonia where money from excise duties on fuel is used to pay teachers' wages, social benefits and pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U4	Good questioner! As you are well aware, 75% of excise duties on fuel are used for road construction and 25% for other costs. The collection of excise duties has a dual purpose. Firstly, excise duties are intended to regulate people's behaviour in society. In order for people to behave more environmentally friendlyly, excise duties are levied on certain goods or services. And secondly, excise duty is needed to fulfil the state's obligations. The excise duty on fuel goes to 75% specifically for road construction and 25% for other tasks of the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U6	Prime Minister! The members of the Government of our Republic are unable to negotiate with the European Commission that agricultural subsidies equal to the so-called old European farmers would be paid to Estonian farmers. At the same time, an Estonian farmer is currently paying excise duty on special fuel at a rate of 5.2 times the minimum set by the European Union. For example, Denmark, Spain, France, Ireland, Portugal, Romania and Finland have lower excise duties on special fuel than Estonia. Why are our farmers put in a much worse position than many other European farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U7	Negotiations are ongoing and I hope that they will end successfully for Estonia. After all, there are quite a number of reasons why the rates of direct payments vary for the countries of the European Union and they still exist in part, but we believe that the transition period should end much faster than the European Commission has proposed. At the same time, the use of land as a resource in Estonia, for example, is much cheaper due to lower land prices than it is in many Western European countries. So the European Commission does not have any arguments on the basis of which it can be said that in some EU countries the level of direct payments should be lower than in some other Member States. Of course, this approach does not satisfy us. We want equal treatment for all farmers. We do not explicitly require higher rates of support, but equal treatment is what we insist on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U9	Thank you. If our farmers have to pay 5.2 times the excise duty for the fuel they use, then on another issue our excise policy is rather modest compared to that of the rest of Europe. The Faculty of Economics of the University of Tartu was defended last year by a doctoral thesis, the author of which, after a mathematical model was drawn up, recommended to increase alcohol excise duty by nearly a few hundred per cent in order to compensate for the harm caused by excessive consumption of liquors. Do you consider such a suggestion realistic, or rather agree with the position of the head of the Estonian Alcohol Producers' Association that the state should focus more on fighting the alcohol secret market and collecting its money in this way, but not constantly increasing alcohol excise duties in order to obtain the excise money lost because of the secret market?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U10	I also read about this proposal, and I would not like to condemn the proposer immediately. We know that in many countries of the European Union, the rates of excise duty on alcohol are indeed twice as high as those in Estonia, for example, Ireland and Belgium. In some European Union countries they are three times higher than in Estonia, for example in Finland, and in some European Union countries they are almost four times higher than in Estonia, for example in Sweden. However, in the case of Estonia, I do not consider such an increase to be reasonable. Currently, alcohol excise duties have been received more and more each year, whether or not they are years of crisis. We have been able to ensure fiscal discipline and the revenue from the state budget has increased steadily as a result of the increase in alcohol duty. However, if alcohol excises are exponentially increased, this level may be unreasonably high, then legal alcohol trade may die out. Of course, it would be a good thing if we were to be able to control borders very properly and alcohol consumption exponentially decreased, but I do not have much faith in this under the conditions of a liberal market economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, three issues now registered on the ground. Let's start with my colleague, Heimar Leng. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U12	Honourable performer! I agree with you that excise duties affect behaviour and maybe make drivers drive less and pollute and people smoke less and drink less. But don't you think the excise duties on fuel, especially car fuel, are very high at half the price? It also affects human eating habits. As transport money is included in food prices, this is how we read it in the media right now, that people are already cutting their food tables and eating poorer food, because prices are too expensive. Is there not such a boomerang effect that we are raising excise duty and getting more money to the Treasury on the one hand, and people's quality of life on the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U13	The rate of excise duty on unleaded petrol is lower than that of Estonia only in Cyprus, Romania and Bulgaria. I do not think that driving cars in Estonia could die out if excise rates were so low. The excise duty on fuel must be so high as to allow roads to be constructed and repaired from its receipts, but since the burning of fuels does not only require roads to exist, but will inevitably lead to other environmental damage, the excise duty must also be left over to compensate for the costs incurred as a result of damage to nature and the environment. Obviously, it is also known to non-chemists that the combustion process of an internal combustion engine is always damaging nature because combustion takes place in an atmosphere. There is a lot of nitrogen in the air, and at high temperatures nitrogen oxidizes, nitrogen oxides that are harmful to human health are produced, and our health therefore deteriorates. Since these oxides are more in the air and our life expectancy is shortening, it is only natural that the money from excise duties must compensate for the damage caused.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U14	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U15	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I knew it all very well. Five years in a row it's been said. When we talk about excise increases and housing excise duties, you start talking about alcohol duty. I would just like to talk about electricity excise duty and that it is nearly five times higher for a private individual than the minimum requirement of the European Union, and for a company almost ten times higher than the European minimum requirement. In my opinion, it is purely for the benefit of the Treasury. Don't you think our tax system is quite regressive? Those with low incomes must spend much of their money on everyday activities so that the wealthy can consume better things.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U16	I do not know where your passion is to compare all kinds of tax rates with the European Union's minimum standards. In many cases, the European Union's minimum requirement is zero and compares something with zero is beautifully useless. That doesn't add much, except for propaganda success among people whose ability to think is limited to comparing a larger amount to zero. I would advise you not to focus on comparison with the minimum rates, but rather to analyse whether taxes are high enough to guarantee the salaries of teachers, police and rescue officers, pensions for pensioners. Are excise duties so high that they regulate to some extent harmful consumption to human health? I am thinking, above all, of smoking, which I do not see in any way benevolent. Are the excise duties so large that the sums they receive can be built and repaired? This would be more useful than comparing the EU's minimum rates, especially if the minimum rates were not set, set at 0% or slightly different from zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U17	I would like to ask you now for the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U18	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! My question concerns specially labelled fuels. As we know, we are in the process of reforming these specially labelled or painted fuels. Some sectors such as mining and construction have been changed, some sectors are under reform. How far is this thing? And can you also say anything about the compensation provided for?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U19	Specialists are working on this subject. Replacing specially labelled fuels with compensatory direct payments is not an easy task. It is easy to imagine that we are better able to provide a farmer with a per hectare support instead of allowing him to buy some amount of specially labelled fuel. But one hectare can develop a wide variety of activities. One hectare can only be cut once a year, and one hectare can be planted with vegetables that use much more fuel to grow than a piece of wood once a year. There is currently no good and very reliable system for replacing special fuel labelling. But the specialists of the Ministry of Agriculture are working with farmers to establish this system. I hope that this action will lead to a result, but it cannot be quite certain.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U20	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U21	Next question, please, Mr Olga Soldier, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U22	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In recent weeks, a number of articles have been published in the press about the confusion in the Estonian Internet Foundation in your area of administration. On the weekend there was also news that one of the board members of Jaak Lippmaa had been removed from office. My question is that, on the one hand, the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Kauts, is writing about the abuse of the foundation's money, buys generators, buys trailers, but another board member, Mr. Lippmaa, becomes vacant. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U23	I brought with me the decision of the Estonian Internet Foundation Council, which you asked about. The reason for recalling the board member Jaak Lippmaa was that a conflict of interest had arisen in his case. Namely, three years ago, we decided in many ways, under the pressure of Endel and Jaak Lippmaa or on demand, to reorganize the organisation of the very outdated Estonian Internet domain, which had been in place since 1992. According to this concept, the Estonian Internet Foundation was also to become an administrative or technical contact point in ICANN, an international organization based in America, which organises the administration of the Internet and the Internet domain. The ITL, or Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, appointed Jaak Lippmaa to its board of directors, and his task was to complete the so-called 'delegation'. So far, the trustee was the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics, the contact persons were Endel and Jaak Lippmaa, and Jaak Lippmaa remained responsible for this. He has not carried out his task and the Council has decided to recall him. With regard to the press' claims regarding the activities of another member of the board, the same board decided to examine all these accusations, whether the expenditure has been inexpensive or illegal. If the Council terminates its scrutiny, it can be announced. I don't have any additional data. This article was published in the Estonian Express, about which Juku-Kalle Raid called me two weeks earlier and introduced some planned press attack. That's all I know about it. But everything it says may not be the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U24	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! As you said, three years ago Mr Lippmaa became a member of the board. So there has been three years to complete this process of redeployment. Why did it suddenly occur last week that he would no longer be trusted and that this process would no longer be moved forward in a friendly manner, but that force measures would be used and one board member would be expelled? What's the incentive? What's the reason? It's not the articles that have appeared in the press, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U26	No, it's not. This process has been long. I dare say that two years have passed since the implementation of the new internet domain arrangement. On a broad scale, we can say that if we look at the relevant bill or process arrangements, it has been successful. We can say that we have domain names in Estonia that have a great asset, it is partly intellectual property. All registration, law enforcement and everything else are organised in Estonia as foreseen by the leading international internet community. It's hard for me to comment on why there's no redeployment. I guess the Council lost the hope that this last step would be completed, which is all I can say. I do not know of any serious argument that this redeployment should not be done. All the substantive initiatives have, in my opinion, been quite well done compared to the early days of the reform, and this last step should also be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U27	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U28	Thank you, Madam President. In addition to the fact that there is a huge confusion with spending money in the foundation, quite a few employees have recently left the foundation. Last year, another member of the Council left ITL. There's been a lot of confusion. But the third question I have is this. Former employees of the Estonian Internet Foundation claim that the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Kauts, has repeatedly said in front of several of his employees that while Mr. Parts is in charge, no one will take him down. Tell me, please, have you heard of this? What do you think of that? And if so, what have you promised this gentleman or what is his assurance that nothing will happen to him as long as you are the minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U29	That, of course, is not true. The board of directors still appoints the foundation board. I believe the same company that sends me bananas from time to time will spread such stories. You can find all sorts of interesting stories on the Internet. I suggest you read them, but don't believe them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U30	I would now like to ask two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Kadri Samson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U31	Thank you. Dear Minister for Economic Affairs, You are here justifying the resignation of one of the board members, while defending the other who is a member of the IRL and has applied for the last local elections on the list of IRLs in Nõmme. But I'm interested that when the Estonian Internet Foundation Council called one member back last week, what is the plan to fill the vacant board member's seat? Has the new candidate already been selected or is there a public competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U32	I'm sure there'll be a public competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U33	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! On 5 May, the Board of the Estonian Internet Foundation decided to examine the activities of the Chairman of the Board, Marek-Andres Kauts. In this context, I would ask you to respond to who is investigating his activities, what is the deadline for carrying out the investigation and what specific accusations or actions must be investigated during the investigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U35	He's investigating the council, as far as I know. Yesterday, too, the Council was together. It is likely that the accusations that appeared in the Estonian Express story will be examined whether all expenses incurred have been suitable for the intended purpose. The costs to be questioned are listed in this article. The public has discussed the backup diesel generator and there were other costs. I believe that the Council will take an adequate position on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U36	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U37	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! On 1 May, the e-domain registration fee entered into force. The new fee is EUR 17 per year, i.e. EUR 1 and 42 per month. Why did the Council adopt such a price of EUR 17 and value added tax? Have you seen any cost calculations behind this? While the Foundation has promised to keep the price on a cost-based basis, at the same time the Council had not even seen the budget when it adopted this price.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U38	One of the changes brought about by the current internet domain regulation is a fundamental restructuring of funding. So far, the organisation of the Internet domain was financed mainly from the state budget until the foundation became operational. There is a principle that Internet domain administration, law enforcement management must be organised independently of the government. This is a very important principle. Consequently, the necessary money must be provided for the provision of services for domain management, i.e. domain registration and legal protection. This fee depends, of course, on the number of domains to register. In fact, this is not some long-term process, but every year the domain has to be re-registered. If this is not done, the domain will lose its legal protection. The Foundation has a long-term financial plan with more or less calculated costs, reserves required if the economy has a setback and fewer domains are registered. The Foundation must still be able to be financially independent. As a result, this remuneration has developed. If we look at the practice of other countries that have reorganized this system ten years ago, it can be concluded that this remuneration is likely to fall in the future if there is a stable volume of domains that can be considered reliable. So, in the coming years, I believe there is reason to hope for a reduction in this EUR 17 fee, as we have seen in Finland and Sweden. I believe that the Council is competent in this regard, is making its decisions responsibly, including thinking about more difficult years. At the moment, the foundation already has a small reserve, so if one year fewer domains are protected, they will have enough money to continue their activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U39	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U40	The next question is from my colleague Enn Front, Mr Paet, will answer the Foreign Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U41	Dear Minister, Normally we talk about these stories in the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs, where you are a frequent guest, but it is also worth discussing these topics in front of such a much larger audience today. It is clear that the recent elections in France, and in Greece in particular, gave the European Union a very serious signal. I think colleagues know the very elegant statement by the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, that greater emphasis must be placed in the future on both the larger aid funds and the very strong austerity policy. In the current European Union, this is a relatively difficult task to fulfil. Do you think that such a reasonable solution in form is possible in essence?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U42	I think that at this stage there is nothing else to do but try to move on with these things. However, it is clear that tensions exist in a large number of countries where cuts have been made and where the trend in economic growth that has lasted for years or decades is breaking and it is understood that it is no longer possible to increase living standards by simply adding loans or spending more. All this knowledge reaches out and creates political tensions, the clear expression of which is also the result of the fresh Greek parliamentary elections, but there are also signs in other countries. It is clear, therefore, that politically, meeting these only possible goals in economic terms is becoming increasingly difficult, but there is not much else to do in this situation. An extraordinary European Council meeting has now been convened by 23 May, where the leaders of the European Union countries are again discussing the results of these last elections in some European countries, as well as the possibilities for further implementation of existing plans. It is important that the things that have been decided between the countries of the European Union and at Council level over the last year, in order to control budget deficits and credit increases and to implement austerity measures, are still implemented consistently. Of course, at the same time, internal political processes in many countries must also be closely monitored against this background.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U43	Please, Mr Enn Frontland, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U44	Thank you. When analysing election results, many commentators and analysts tend to forget quite a few times that it is really the will of the people. The results reflect what the majority of the people or a very large part of the people really want. Greece is likely to have new elections coming up, France will have new elections coming up in June. Has it also been mentioned in the European Union that perhaps we need to start talking about Plan B?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U45	So far, there have, of course, been no very serious discussions on this matter between Heads of State or Foreign Ministers or other ministers at formal meetings. As far as Greece is concerned, for example, everything that has been agreed applies and no one has announced that the agreements should be amended. It is very clear that many European leaders have also said after election day that Greece, of course, must keep its promises if it wants the aid packages of other countries of the European Union to remain in force. But the election results in Greece, of course, do not predict a very simple government assembly. Indeed, more and more of this is also about the possibility that perhaps it will not succeed and that there will be new elections. And as long as the government continues in office, until a new, majority office has failed to be put together. However, today there is no basis for deciding on other scenarios, because so far no one has withdrawn from the agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U46	Please, Mr Enn Frontland, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U47	Let me ask you more about Greece. When new elections come and this 'turn' that has taken place becomes even clearer, perhaps it is also worth considering an approach in the European Union, as young Hegel once suggested, that freedom is a negative attribute and freedom in this sense would also mean giving up, in this context, Greece's withdrawal from monetary union? Or do you think it's a little late? Perhaps it would have been less painful to do it before?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U48	I don't think it's too late. Everything that concerns the relations of individual countries with other countries of the European Union and their membership of this organisation is, after all, the final choice of each individual country itself. However, I do not know any rational explanation how leaving the euro zone or the European Union as a whole would improve the situation of one or another European country, whether it is an economic, political or security situation. Regardless of what is allowed together in the fine elections, there is still a harsh reality and living beyond power is unsustainable. If a loan is already taken to cover fixed costs, it is clear that this is a major problem. And if there were an attempt to solve problems, for example, by leaving the euro zone or the European Union, I think that it will not only exacerbate economic problems, but also make matters more difficult in many other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U49	Now three issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, these other elections are presidential elections in France. I was watching a very popular BBC talk series 'Hardtalk', where a man who was in his time 'intermediate' between President Sarkozy and Dominique de Villepin said so, don't forget, young man, that you have democracy in Britain and we have monarchy in France. By this he wanted to say that the President's power in France really is extremely extensive and strong. Now, despite being the new president, the Fifth Republic is still in force and all the same agreements are in force. I wonder if, now, before the next Council meeting, there will already be meetings with Chancellor Merkel, which would actually provide the first indication that will happen on the French-German axis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U51	Both countries have expressed a clear interest in maintaining close contacts and cooperation, so I am convinced that the leaders of these two countries will certainly meet in the near future. The nearest such international event, in which both Heads of State are represented, is the NATO Chicago Summit. So if there is no separate bilateral meeting before this, this is definitely one of the events where they are both present.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U52	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U53	Thank you. There is a great deal of talk in Europe that cuts have been painful and people are tired of cuts. However, the reality is that in only a few countries the nominal volume of public expenditure has decreased. So there's been more talk than action. How do you feel about whether the latest election results in this light will deepen the gap between northern and southern Europe? So there will be a rapidly growing, rationally and rationally acting German axis and somewhere southwards such unemployment-driving and debt-living southern Europe. What are the signals today that are going to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U54	First of all, I would not draw such a dividing line within Europe that there is a north and a south or some other division. All situations must be analysed on a country-by-country basis. To make, even according to the geographic location, any generalisation of responsibility on the subject I do not think is right. As regards the specific recent elections in two countries of the European Union, i.e. France and Greece, as we all know, the criterion of truth is practice. I have no reason to believe that France and its new elected President will not continue to pursue a responsible policy for the entire European economy, including the eurozone. After all, the descriptions of various situations and the search for possible solutions have been carried out very thoroughly at all possible levels to top national management over the last few years. After all, the French left wing, or socialist camp, has also been actively involved in these very discussions. In fact, there is no special news in this regard, all the keys to the solution and the nature of the problem have been discussed several times. In the case of Greece, as has been said, we do not yet know whether, and if so, which government will be able to form there and what will be the political programme of the cabinet. But, as I said from the very beginning, of course, domestic policy risks in Europe have obviously increased. For a very long time, however, very many societies were used to the fact that the standard of living could only rise, that it could only get better at all times, that incomes could increase. But as life has shown, there is another side that inevitably needs to be used to.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U55	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have heard and read that there is a lot of news in Europe lately. In France, the president of the exchange, elections were held in Greece. In Setumaa, however, for a long time we have been following very closely everything that has taken place in Russia. Russia became the new Prime Minister, Russia became the new old president. All of this, however, which has taken place in connection with border crossings, has far from brought good solutions to all those who wish to cross the border more times and for longer periods than are currently the case. My question is about Russia. Will the fact that the old new President was appointed also bring us some sort of simplified border crossing and, from this point on, perhaps visa liberalisation between the European Union and Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U57	First of all, yes, there are indeed many important elections in Europe this year. Two elections we have been talking about, but there are also elections going on in Serbia, there were elections in Armenia and, as far as I know, there will be another election in Setumaa at the beginning of August. So this is a serious, tight election year. However, as far as Russia and visa liberalisation are concerned, there is a visa dialogue between the European Union and Russia. There are clear criteria and conditions that Russia must meet in order to achieve visa liberalisation. It's all known, this process continues. If the result is achieved slowly or quickly, Russia's will and the speed of the process will depend in many respects. The second thing is that, like many other countries, Russia can unilaterally impose some kind of visa relief on the citizens of the European Union. We've talked about this before in this hall. For example, while Estonia has for some time been issuing most of its visas to Russian citizens in long-term and multiple-entry situations, the reverse is mostly that Russian visas are issued on very specific dates and generally on a one-off basis. In itself, there has always been the possibility of relaxing visa policy towards the European Union in Russia. But it is clear that their main objective in their relations with the European Union is to achieve full visa liberalisation. Perhaps the somewhat stricter system of issuing visas is being maintained precisely because of the fact that it is so difficult to obtain a Russian visa to exert pressure on countries, that maybe a quick transition to visa liberalisation will be accepted. Once again, however, there are clear criteria in the visa dialogue between the European Union and Russia, and it is possible to talk about visa liberalisation once these criteria are met and all European Union countries feel that this visa waiver does not jeopardise their internal security, for example, with illegal immigration or otherwise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U58	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U59	The next question is from my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U60	Prime Minister! In Estonia, people's concern at the moment is certainly the number one, which huge surge in domestic costs has been made since both the IRL and the Reform Party promised to significantly reduce home expenses in the run-up to the elections. I will read the words of Ken-Mart Vaher in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. He said that the Competition Authority would be given full control of all Estonian heat producers and water companies in order to bring down prices related to home expenses. And here I also have one ballot box where it is said that the price restrictions on monopolies cut the heating and water costs of homeowners by up to half. The question is: what has become of this very nice election promise, and why has everything gone the other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U61	Indeed, energy saving measures can reduce heating costs up to twice. I am pleased that we have already been able to make many homes more energy-efficient through the proceeds of the sale of Kyoto allowances, so that heating bills in these homes have decreased considerably. It is not conceivable that some political parties, government or Riigikogu in Estonia would be able to control the change in energy prices on the world market, but making houses warm is in our hands and we should take this issue very seriously. There is nothing to justify that heating one square metre or one cubic metre in a dwelling or office takes twice as much heat energy in Estonia as in Finland. The climate in Finland should be colder than in Estonia. I don't understand why we accept that we're still blowing air. Our housing associations should be much more active than KredEx in applying for funds under the energy saving measure for houses. If money is used for its purpose, home expenses will decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U62	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U63	Thank you. Your advice reminds me strongly of the advice that you want to warm, then buy a expensive coat. In order to reduce home costs, the IRL really recommended thermal insulation of residential buildings, in itself, is a good idea, but in order to achieve 50% of energy savings and receive 25 to 35% of state support, very large bank loans must be taken to renovate buildings. Relatively small houses with 20 apartments do not have this possibility, especially in rural areas. Today, we know that 50% of the total price increase is still an increase in home costs. The election promise was something else: we're bringing home expenses down. But right now, a lot of people aren't gonna be able to use that advice. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U64	You don't have to generalize like that. Can't say people don't use that discount. People use this discount, but they could use it even more. In life, it is not the great expenses that must be feared, but the low incomes that must be feared. If large spending leads to even greater income, spending is justified. Yes, it is true that investments must be made to make houses warm. However, these investments do not disappear into thin air, like taxpayers' money disappears into thin houses. These investments save people's money, their heating bills will be smaller. In addition, life shows that the price of renovated, heat-resistant real estate is mostly 25% higher than the price of non-energy-saving housing. So we need to think about tomorrow and we need to invest today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U65	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U66	Most of the residents of Estonia cannot afford the large expenses you recommend. But let's talk a little bit about electricity. I have an interesting article here. Economics doctor, electrical engineer, once Minister Väino Rajangu has written it and its title is intriguing: 'Does electricity bring down the Reform Party and the IRL? '. But not on the subject of this title, I do not want to talk, it is simply stated in this article that if we compare the prices of electricity in kilowatt-hours and how many kilowatt-hours of electricity can be purchased for average wages in Estonia and Finland, we will see that we have a much smaller quantity. Of course, now that the market is open, the price will rise even further, plus the payment of online services. The state will receive taxes, but the price will be expensive. What do you say that an Estonian person consumes more expensive electricity than in Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U67	Now, of course, this is the discovery that the standard of living of Finns is higher than in Estonia! That's the discovery I made! Every time you ask me a question, you tell me a long story, and then you finally say, "But that's not what I wanted to talk about." If you don't want to talk about it, don't talk about it. Just talk about what you want to talk about! The question of why the standard of living in Finland is still higher than in Estonia has, in my opinion, been repeatedly answered in the last 20 years. Yeah, once before World War II, our standards of living were more or less equal, but then we split up. Finland did not have to survive 50 years of occupation and therefore the standard of living in Finland is now much better than it is in Estonia. Unfortunately, in the fertile conditions of Estonia's planned economy, our economic and living standards have been stunted and 20 years have not been long enough to make up for lost time and achieve the standard of living that is possible in Finland. But let it be said that our development has still been relatively rapid. Compared to GDP per capita in the European Union, we are relatively at 68% of the Union average. But only ten years ago, our standard of living was 45% compared to the European Union average. Thus, progress has been rapid. Give me some time, and we'll catch up with the Finns.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U68	I would now like to ask three questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Tarmo from Leinatamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U69	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Tomorrow, hopefully, the Riigikogu will adopt a very important law, which represents a powerful step in the educational landscape of Estonia and will certainly give many teachers the hope that they will see this increase of 20%. I ask: has the government discussed similar powerful steps in the field of culture in order to bring cultural workers from the level of survival training to a slightly viable environment in terms of their income? I mean, has the Minister of Culture, at least in his office, initiated some kind of initiative so that in the field of culture, too, people could start to get a little higher mouth corners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U70	The income of all Estonian people will grow as the Estonian economy grows. The Estonian economy has started to grow since the crisis. Last year's economic growth in Estonia was 7.6% and it was the fastest economic growth in the European Union. It is true that, at the moment, we have enough uncertainty and ignorance in Europe. We cannot be very optimistic and say that our economy is growing again by 7.5% a year, and nothing can reverse this growth. We know that the crisis is still deep in many countries of the European Union, but we also know that Estonia's public finances are in very good shape. Our general government debt is the lowest in the European Union at 6% of GDP; there is nothing to compare with Greece at 160%. We have also had a balanced balance between current expenditure and revenue. Last year, the government surplus was 1% of gross domestic product; in the past year, there was also a surplus, though only 0.1%, but while very many European countries are struggling with very large government debt, Estonia can go into the future with a debt burden on the government sector and a balanced state budget. These are very important development advantages and provide a very good basis for the growth of incomes of all Estonian residents in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U71	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U72	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister! Without any irony and with all due respect and without wanting to cut the slightest cheap political popularity, I want to ask you about a subject that really hurts my heart. This topic is children living below the poverty line or at the poverty line in Estonia, with tens of thousands. I'm not even going to name the numbers because it's probably possible to add them up and argue about it. But it is clear that something needs to be done and urgent action needs to be taken. What's the government plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U73	It has also been said repeatedly from this speaker that the face of poverty is a face of unemployment. Unemployment is the biggest cause of poverty. In Estonia, unemployment has almost doubled over the last year and a half, so the situation is now much better than it was a year and a half or two years ago. True, the Ministry of Finance's forecasts of the fall in unemployment this year are not the most optimistic, but the tax receipts over the first four months confirm that life has progressed much better than forecasted. The increase in foreign direct investment in Estonia is still quite good, and this means that unemployment will decrease further. When unemployment decreases, poverty also decreases. However, there is certainly a need to restructure the child benefit system. It is not justified to provide all parents with child support in the same way, regardless of their income. Taxpayer money should help those in need and those in desperate need of state assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U74	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Tuiksoo.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U75	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! In the context of this issue, there has been an increase in heating costs. Is there, and if so, when does the government plan to support the conversion of boiler houses to chipping wood? It is a cheap fuel type and, at the same time, it also makes it possible to create jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U76	The Environmental Investment Centre has a measure in place and, as far as I know, there is money there. A project should therefore be drawn up and resources requested. And if the project is tangible, viable, it will probably receive support. In itself, switching to or giving more attention to local fuel is certainly the right direction. And this is not only a matter of energy, but, as you have pointed out, the issue of employment in general and the question of making better use of our natural resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U77	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U78	The next question is from my colleague, Kalle Laanet, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! This year has been an unhappy year in this sense that 36 people have been killed in traffic within four months - that is almost a quarter more than last year. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is one of the ministries responsible for road safety, and specifically for preventive measures. What do you think is the cause of these serious traffic accidents?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U80	Thank you, that is a good question that would require a longer time to answer. In short, when we look at the statistics on the victims, the number of pedestrians has increased the most. In the case of pedestrians, the main reason outside the cities is that they do not make themselves visible. Another group that could be highlighted are accidents involving a single passenger car, in other words, not collisions, but accidents involving a single passenger car. There are two reasons behind: alcohol and misdirected speed. These are things that stand out compared to the improved trend of the past few years. There are still three main causes of road accidents: misguided speed, alcohol and non-use of security equipment. I am not going to talk about wider social changes. This will require a more in-depth study of the extent to which the number of road fatalities is linked to an improvement in the economic situation, including a reduction in unemployment. We also know countries where the economic situation has improved, but fewer people have died in traffic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U81	Please, Mr Kalle Laane, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U82	Thank you. Dear Minister, I agree with you. When you read information about the causes of road accidents on the Internet, it turns out that these are the three reasons. In recent weeks, the media has had a discussion about whether our main roads could be run at 100 km/h or 90 km/h in the summer. And one of the most important arguments alleged to have been put forward is that driving at a speed of 90 km/h has less casualties in road accidents. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U83	This was the result of the debate in the Committee on Traffic. As an intermediate remark: in addition to six ministers in the Committee on Traffic, our biggest traffic specialists are the chief police officer, the experts of the Road Administration. But the main reason is that in traffic we have to achieve uniformity and keep it. The fact that we started implementing practice in the summer of 2001 or 2002 that we allowed five- or ten-km sections to pass at speeds above normal speed is 90 km/h in Estonia made traffic uneven. Such a thing automatically changes the behaviour of drivers, and it also has many other effects that are very difficult to measure. It is not a question of whether accidents occur specifically in one paragraph or the other. Traffic requires uniformity, sort of routine. That was a very strong argument for scientists and experts against our practice. By the way, when you look at other European countries, it is relatively unique that some passages are allowed to speed more than usual. So that was the position of the experts of the Road Transport Committee and we passed that recommendation on to the Road Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U84	Thank you very much, Minister. I will stop dealing with this issue because our Question Time is over. Thank you, colleagues, for asking questions. Thank you, representatives of the Government of the Republic, for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U85	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday on the 14th working week. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U86	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Me and seven other members of the Central Party Group have an inquiry to the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. We inquisitors have the impression that, in recent times, national broadcasting, namely the "Spectator" of national broadcasting, is more concerned about what is happening in the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture than the Minister of Agriculture itself. In this regard, we have a question for him. A few months ago, information reached the Estonian public via the National Broadcasting TV programme "The Spectator" that the Aardla Rural Improvement Association, which received more than 7 million kroons of support from the PRIA, used the grant money improperly. Now, 'The Spectator' has come up with a new story that PRIA funds may have been misused. This is an Estonian Eine company that has not submitted documents in time and has thus made false declarations. In this regard, we have six questions for the Minister for Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U87	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Here's the news. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated on 7 May, the Committee on Social Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft of the Riigikogu's decision of 7 May on 'Acceptance to increase the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund', Senior Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. And now, please, your attention! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting of the Support Group of Motor Friends in this Chamber. The caller is Peter Võsa. Now, please, let's do the presence check! Eighty-four MPs registered to be present, 17 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U88	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the first reading of the Act on funded pensions initiated by the Government of the Republic, the State Pension Insurance Act and, in connection with this, the draft Act amending other laws. Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is a great honour for me to introduce you to the Act on funded pensions, the State Pension Insurance Act and, in connection with it, the draft Act on the amendment of other laws. In a slightly simpler form, this law could also be called the Parental Pensions Act. The purpose of this law is to establish the basis for the payment of parental pension. Parental pension is a further development of parental benefit. The aim of parental benefit, which creates security for workers and families, is to help reconcile work and family life. The average salary of the parent shall be retained for the duration of his or her temporary cessation of employment in relation to the care of the child during the previous calendar year. More generally, the draft Parental Pensions Act also serves the purpose of supporting families in childbearing and helping families to secure their future while they are at home with children. The parental pension system provides assurance in such a way that the person who raised the child will be provided with an additional income at retirement age. If we look at the amendments more closely, we can talk about three different groups. The state will pay for a child born in 2013 and later to parents who have joined a compulsory funded pension, 4% from the average salary to the second pension pillar until the child reaches three years of age. If, for example, the child is born in early 2013, we can now calculate that the contributions to the mandatory funded pension fund amount to approximately EUR 1134 over a period of three years. The second group of draft proposals concerns children who were born after 31 December 1980 and are still born on 31 December 2012 at the latest and parents who, during this period, do not receive a two-year pension entitlement and who raise their child for at least eight years. For these parents, the supplement is calculated at two annual rates. For the first time, these parents acquire the right to receive a pension supplement for raising children; they were not previously known to have two years' pension entitlement. The third group of proposals concerns all those whose child was born before 2013. For them, the pension supplement will be calculated as of 2015 at one annual rate. Once again, on the basis of current calculations, we can make such an up-to-date adjustment that for one child, this represents an increase of EUR 5 to 6 per month. We have proposed that the draft should enter into force in two stages. First, on 1 January 2013, starting with a payment of 4% for the first two groups and a two-year pension supplement, while on 1 January 2015, an additional one-year pension supplement would enter into force. If we look at the costs involved in implementing the draft, we have foreseen that these costs will be covered by the state budget. The estimated cost of the state budget in 2015, i.e. the full implementation of the draft, is EUR 37 to 38 million, of which nearly EUR 25 million is attributed to the addition of an annual pension supplement. Implementing measures will, of course, also be put in place following the adoption of the law. Above all, people need to be informed that new rights are emerging, but of course it is also essential that the implementation of these new rights brings all the necessary changes to both implementing legislation and IT systems. We certainly support the Social Affairs Committee's proposal to conclude the first reading. I hope that the bill will also come well to adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U90	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. But there are a lot of questions for you too. Let's start with my colleague Mikhail of Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U91	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In the 1980s, more than 20,000 children were born each year in Estonia, and there were even three years in which more than 25000 children were born each year for three years. In the 1990s, this figure fell to 12,000, and the last few years have been a certain increase: 15,000 the year before, 14,000 the previous year. Now it is likely that this number will begin to decrease, as the generation of the 1990s will soon reach birth age. In fact, our very small positive age for the country is a problem. How much do you think this law will help to increase the birth rate? How does this affect ivet positively?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U92	Thank you for a very good question. I would be a little more specific: in the 1990s, the birth rate did not fall to 12,000. When we look at 1991, about 25000 children were born in Estonia during this period, which was very good. This figure then started to fall steadily and fell until 2004. In 2003 and 2004, we had this 22000 birth, a very poor result. From there, after the entry into force of the parental benefit in 2004, the birth rate started to rise again. As a percentage, the increase is pretty good, 25% from 12,000 to 16,000. This is undoubtedly not enough given the wishes and wishes of the Estonian people. Especially considering the birth age of a generation born in the early 2000's. If we make a simple calculation that there are a little less girls among the 12,000 born and, unfortunately, not everyone is able to have children, then we must assume that young women of this generation, who reach the fertile age, must have at least three children in the family. It will then be able to maintain at least this 15,000-to-16000 birth rates. This must be a very big challenge. As a result, both parental and parental benefits, any measure that enhances family confidence to have children, is only positive. It is, of course, very difficult to assess whether this measure means 100 or 200 or 1000 or 5000 children by number. However, we can say very clearly that this measure will give all young families confidence that they will not lose their pension insurance years if they have a child. The state values having a child by both parental benefit and contributions from the average salary to the second pension pillar until the child reaches three years of age. The most important objective of this draft is undoubtedly to give confidence, to give a signal that having a child in the family is valued and that a person can be sure that, when he reaches retirement age, he has reason to assume that he has not lost years of work because of his child or his children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U93	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U94	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will continue the same subject, albeit from a slightly different angle. It is only natural that parents regard child benefit, child care allowance and birth allowance as equally important. Many of them are concerned, above all, by the small size of the first two contributions. We haven't been able to increase child support in a while. As a minister, can you expect, perhaps even promise, that child support will increase in the future, perhaps even in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U95	That's what we're working on. We have agreed that more should be done, above all, to help those who need more help in paying children's benefits. That's one. Secondly, according to my own personal conviction, we should focus our efforts more on supporting the third child, at least the second child, either further or very clearly. In such a negative, or worst, period in 2002, 2003 and 2004, at 12000 births, our birth rate was 1.4. Now we've got a birth rate of 1.63. In fact, the birth rate coefficient should be at least 2,1 in the so-called classical sense or according to international concepts for the reproduction of ethnicity. It is clear that we must, above all, motivate families to have second, third and fourth children. As a result, my personal opinion is that no matter what the changes to the system of child and family benefits are, in fact, very clear about the government's work plan, that within a year or so the Green Paper on family benefits must be completed, these changes must focus most on motivating families to have other, third and fourth children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U96	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, One of the objectives of the parental pension is certainly to increase the birth rate, as we know. At the same time, the current economic situation is forcing a delay in having children. Have you carried out cost-benefit studies, or how much do you expect to increase the percentage of ivet by this measure and for how long?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U98	When I answered the first question, I was just trying to say that it cannot be measured and that it cannot be claimed that there is an additional 100 or 200 or 500 births. In addition to giving confidence, this bill also aims to eliminate injustice. We remember that when we went over the principle of funded pensions in 1999 after the entry into force of the State Pension Insurance Act, the principle of funded pensions was left out of the idea that if a person is on parental leave, he will be paid into the second pension pillar. It was only the 1% at the time of receiving parental benefit. In this sense, today's draft has several objectives. First of all, as I said, the loss of injustice. Secondly, of course, to motivate families to have more children, give them confidence. However, what is the birth rate behaviour, of course, does not depend on just one bill. This depends very much on the overall economic environment, depends on the livelihood of families, depends on the value of families and children, and on the attitude of society towards young families and children. There's a lot of actors. But we are firmly convinced that, as a continuation of parental benefit, parental pensions are a very good and necessary measure to provide family security.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U99	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U100	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi has claimed that maternity pension is a ridicule of monetary policy. Could this mean that public funds for parental pensions can be used much more effectively in other areas, for example by increasing family benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U101	Thank you for your question. The country's political choices, including those that we have here today at first reading, are always the subject of discussion. You always have to consider whether to do one thing or another. For example, we can argue about whether money should be put on the roads, perhaps it would be more appropriate to channel these sums into family benefits. These are the political choices that this hall can and must make. The bill put on your tables, as I said, consists of three parts. The first part is very clear and suggests that we must give confidence to young mothers who stay at home, or to fathers who decide to stay on parental leave, that if they are at home, countries will make payments on their average salary to their pension assets. The second part of the draft is aimed at eliminating injustice. This concerns people who would lose out on the existing pension system compared to the old pension system. This injustice must be eliminated. The third part relates to what we say to all parents today, whether the state is able to pay extra for children already raised to them or for children who are raised to them. This message depends on the choices this hall makes. We have suggested that this additional payment should consist in adding one pension year to the service, as it would coincide with the pension system in force in Estonia for very long years. As I said, we have a very clear trend towards improving the existing pension system and the parental benefit system, i.e. making contributions to the funded pension account. But political choices are always for the Riigikogu to make in plenary. In our opinion, these proposed changes are reasonable and necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U102	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U103	Thank you. Dear Minister, After all, no one has a problem with parental pension. However, experts and insurance companies are now asking where the money comes from. In particular, the pension insurance budget is also currently under 2% of GDP. We know that a generation of "afterwar" is about to reach retirement age. But then there was a real baby boom. They are now reaching retirement age. Estonia is the fastest ageing country in Europe. Today we have 17% of people aged 65 and over, almost 1/3 already in 2050. Tell me, where does that money come from? Maybe it's like a couple of years ago that we promise, but we can't do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U104	Thank you for your question. It is worth recalling, of course, a number of budget negotiations. The two sides of the hall have come with a considerable variety of interesting ideas. I would like to say, by quoting some of the people who spoke earlier on this board, that money comes from the state budget. That's what I'm saying. I'm not going on this slippery road, though. It is clear that pension insurance is already in deficit and this deficit was actually foreseen as early as 1999. But we are in a small pension deficit, thanks to the very good economic development that Estonia has had. And if we take out, for example, the explanatory memorandum to the Pensions Act from 1999 or even earlier, it was predicted that pension insurance would be much earlier in the minus. And the amounts involved were still very high. The fact was that in 2007, if I remember correctly, or was 2008, I don't remember, I think, 2007 instead, we still had a surplus of pension insurance. So, yes, it is true that the pension fund as a whole is in deficit, but as in previous years, the potential deficit will be covered by other public revenue. And, of course, the revenue from the state budget does not come from anywhere other than tax and non-tax revenues, i.e. from the taxpayer's pocket.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U105	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U106	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! It has been known for several years that the risk of poverty is significantly higher in families with three or more children. Families with many children and only one parent are particularly vulnerable. Support is also much lower for families with one parent and many children. Have you planned additional measures specifically to support families with a single parent and at least three children?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U107	The short answer is yes. The longer answer is that, as I said in answering one question here, the Green Paper on family benefits is in writing and its clear aim is to help more those who need more help. There's no retreat from it. What specific solutions are there when we come to the Riigikogu with possible amendments. But the objective of this draft is undoubtedly to give single parents confidence that if they are home with a child under three years of age, their pension assets will increase. If a single mother or a single father is at home until the child is three years old, he/she knows that contributions are made to his/her pension assets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U108	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U109	Thank you. Dear Minister, If we read the draft, from 2013 onwards, additional contributions will be made to the second pension pillar until the child reaches three years of age. Of course, the parents have agreed before whose pension they make them. At the moment, one parent can also pass on years of pension entitlement to another parent, i mean two years for each child, one parent can opt out for another parent, but this right does not arise in the case of funded pensions. I mean the second pillar. Is it not appropriate to move forward with the old system and not to change the system from 2013? That would be fair to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U110	Thank you for your question. The answer is no. But if I comment on this 'id', it is very clear that we chose the principle of funded pensions in Estonia in 1999. And the logical continuation of the principle of funded pensions is that if we want to make some kind of contribution to a person's pension assets according to the number of children, they can still be made into funded pension assets. The system that we're working on right now, I'm not willing to turn back. The only solution that can be found in the case of parental pensions is that, from 2013, we will make contributions to the second pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U111	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U112	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Is this bill not the next scam of the government union? In 2008, the Employment Contracts Act agreed that, from 2013, those people would receive support who would be forced to quit. Last night, unfortunately, the law was lifted. What gives people the assurance that they will receive this money in 2015?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U113	It will be a fortress if today's government continues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U114	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, We were all shocked by the news published some time ago that over 60,000 children live in poverty or at risk of poverty in Estonia. Is there a measure to reduce child poverty in the Ministry of Social Affairs in parallel with the creation of the Parental Pensions Act? Today's bill provides parents with a slightly higher pension, but does not save current and birthing children from poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U116	For the third time, I will explain: this draft does not deal with this. The purpose of this bill is something else, as I said. But more generally, it should provide confidence. I do not want to open up this number of children living in poverty again, this is relative poverty indicators. But once again, this is the subject of a separate debate, and it has been held here and there and there. Yes, we are dealing with the issue of greater family security. In the same case of child poverty, one very important factor is whether parents are working or not. If the overall economic environment is so good that parents find work, then the number of children living at relative risk of poverty and not in poverty will automatically decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U117	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I really like this bill. I'm gonna be a rich pensioner if I live that long. But my question relates to a very technical matter. The costs necessary for the implementation of the Act, EUR 981432, relate to information and organisation for people. I'm a media person, and I can see that the amount is really, really big. I know that the government coalition very much likes to blame Tallinn for high media costs. But for example, the last information campaign in Tallinn, where there were 13 different video clips and information was also in the newspapers and street posters, cost exactly five times less.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U119	Undoubtedly, if these amounts are not used up in this form, then they also need not be included elsewhere, say, in the notification. However, this draft has taken account of the fact that information needs may arise. Since this is a new right for people, there may be a need to inform everyone. Secondly, there are significant IT costs related to this draft, thirdly the costs of training people. Jne, et cetera. If you also read the text before the number you mentioned, you know that it has been calculated very accurately. According to the Social Insurance Board, this bill costs them just as much. If they are not all there, of course they are very positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U120	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U121	Thank you. Minister of Social Affairs! I've got your coalition partner's IRL homepage on this computer right now, left over from the last election. As you will remember, they signed a contract with the voter and created different TV clips. Here is a TV clip, where our esteemed speaker shakes hands with his advisor Anneli Entson, and promises that a mother's pension means that the mother of two children will receive an average annual retirement pension of 13. You have now mentioned that this bill will bring more than €5 to €6 per child. Can you explain how the 13th pension will develop? Or is the IRL doing the same thing in that contract as reducing home expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U122	It's definitely not my job to take a clip and start interpreting or explaining it to you here. You and the speaker can discuss this in the coffee corner. We've done our calculations, and if you look at it, there are different components involved. Let's take out the parental pension in that sense in three pieces, like I said. And if you look at pension assets, I said in my presentation that the parent's contributions will be about 1134 euros over three years. Suppose this is a child born on 2 January 2013 and that the average wage rises as much as the Ministry of Finance has predicted. We also assume that this is a young mother your age. When a young mother your age reaches retirement age, this EUR 1134 in the funded pension fund is expected to have earned a significant amount. Of this EUR 1134 and, of course, of a larger amount in the future, plus one additional pension year, these things come together. Do not take this EUR 5.1 out of the entire context of the parental pension. This EUR 5.1 comes from adding a purely one year to retirement benefits for those whose child was born before 1 January 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U123	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U124	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The draft states that, as from 2013, a two-year pension supplement for children born between 31 December 1980 and 31 December 2012 will be implemented. Would you please explain why this is the time frame?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U125	I'll give you a reason. For a child born between 31 December 1980 and 31 December 2012, for whom the parent does not receive a two-year retirement pension and who has been raised by the parent for at least eight years, the pension supplement shall be calculated at two annual rates. For the first time, these parents acquire the right to receive a pension supplement for raising their children; they did not receive a pension period of two years in the past. That's the main reason. Why didn't they get paid sooner? Because retirement was calculated until 31 December 1998 and these parents had not been able to raise the child for at least eight years by that time. Such a logical reason. If you look at the coalition agreement, it actually said a second year, but during the drafting process, it looked at who had been able to raise a child for eight years, who had come up for two years, and then it came to the conclusion, through a recalculation, that the child had to be born during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U126	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U127	Dear Minister, I would strongly disagree with the conclusion on funded pensions. There is no need to transfer pension supplements to funded pension, there is no connection. But the most serious problem is what? We will treat pensioners who have raised children born in 2013 and before, because then we appreciate that the parent actually raised the child for at least eight years, but later on, when we enter the second pillar, we appreciate that the parent raised the child for three years. Maybe after that, he said goodbye, forgot about the baby and his mother. This is the biggest substantive problem of this bill. How do we explain that until 2013, we appreciate that the child has actually been raised for eight years, but after that, something else entirely? Why the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U128	I'm sure that question might come up. I say again: there is one simple logical explanation for why we chose the pension path. We have passed on to the principles of funded pension in our pension system. Secondly, it is very clear that if the parent is on parental leave with the child, contributions will also be made during this period. In that case, it is not necessary to identify afterwards who has been involved in raising a child, either the mother or the father. At present, there are some legal disputes where, after a very long period of time, it is necessary to determine whether the parent was the mother or father. Such litigation will fall away, as parental leave can only be completed by one parent. I hope that the new system will be very clear and transparent in this respect. Of course, you can always ask whether this eight years is fair or not. Perhaps the limit should have been set for the child to become an adult, so that we would not add retirement age for the child until the child was of adult age. If we take your example of an elder raising a child for three years and then going away, the same is the case for eight years. A nine-year-old child is incapable of coping with himself. But these are the kind of disputes that we can and may not hold. The question is whether we can keep the parental pension system reasonably transparent and clear. And in my opinion, there is still a very clear connection to the length of parental leave: if a person is on parental leave, be it a mother or a father, then during that period contributions are made to his pension assets. It is clear and understandable to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U129	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm not going to repeat my first question, I hope you remember that. Only, in answer, for some reason, you distorted the facts: you claimed that in the 1990s the birth rate had never fallen to 12,000 levels. A brief look at the website of Statistics Estonia shows that just over 12,000 children were born in 1997, 1998 and 1999. So I was right, not you. But the question is different. This extra money comes from our common wallet. What about people who, for health reasons, cannot give birth to children who cannot even do so through medicine? Isn't there some kind of discrimination here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U131	No, it's not. This pension supplement is clearly linked to having a child and raising a child. Of course, it is necessary to address the need for a general pension for all. However, there is no discrimination in pension insurance systems until 1999 and beyond. The two-year pension supplement was also taken into account in the previous period only for the parents who raised the child. On the basis of your reasoning, you could also ask whether this regulation is discriminatory or not. And actually, in most cases both parents are raising a child, but we already agreed in the 1990s, and the current principle is that the child is paid for a parental supplement to one parent. No, there's no discrimination.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U132	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I will return to the bill's expenses. You mentioned IT costs. IT costs are estimated at around one million, so the total amount is actually EUR 2 million, and this is a very precise amount, which ends at EUR 32. So somewhere there's been a very precise adjustment, and I'd like to get to know it sometime. But my question is a little different. If I fill out the required form, I'll prove that I've raised a child until I'm at least eight years old. I will receive a parental pension if I have not been formally deprived of custody before the child reaches the age of eight. That means I may be a very bad mother, but I'll still get that compensation in the future. Doesn't this regulation need any additional condition, I don't know, about the quality of cultivation or whatever? We have very different parents, as we know. We have parents who let kids walk at night, anything. Has this been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U134	We can rely on objective facts. If someone feels that a child is not being raised well, it is a subjective assessment. An objective assessment can be made by a court and, if custody has been deprived of anyone, by a court. These are the reasons why this path has been chosen. Subjective assessments, whether or not one or the other child has been well reared, must eventually be carried out with objective assessment. Even if the case reaches the courts on the initiative of the school or kindergarten staff, or on the initiative of someone else, the juvenile commission and from there, it will still end with an objective assessment. And an objective assessment is made by a court in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U135	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U136	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You answered me earlier that it would give people confidence if the same government coalition continued. I would remind you that in 2008 there was the same government coalition. But my second question is: how much will it all cost the country in 2013 and 2014 about?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U137	These figures are available in the explanatory memorandum: page 18, if you make an explanatory statement. What I'm going to read to you about these numbers is all the years in a row: 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017. You can look over there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U138	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U139	Thank you. Dear Minister, In fact, in view of Eiki Nestor's question, it has to be decided now within three years, and in three years, there are some choices that can be made about who gets these years for raising a child. The current system also allows for the change of these pension years from retirement to retirement. Now if it turns out that a parent has only been with a child for three years and not after that? Let's say Mom gave Dad that right, Dad was at home with the baby, and then raised and supported him until graduation. This is not equal treatment compared to the current situation. I still don't understand why it needs to be transferred to a funded pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U140	If you make an amendment, we can discuss it. I will come back to the previous question for a second. I'm sorry, page 18 has an impact on the person and page 17 has an impact on the state budget. According to the explanatory memorandum, the impact of 2013 is 2.7 plus 0.1 or 2.8 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U141	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry if you've already talked about this, I wasn't always in this Chamber. But here's what I'm asking you. With this system, when additional contributions are made to the second pension pillar, there is a high risk that a person may lose all the savings he has collected if the funds are not doing very well. Why are contributions to the second pension pillar preferred instead of guaranteeing a single pension supplement for all current and future parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U143	Yeah, I've explained that. Whenever it is possible to raise the pension in general, it is of course done. This specific draft concerns this period when the child is at home with his or her mother or father. During this period, as a parent cannot work and earn, the state pays for him the contributions of compulsory pension insurance to the second pension pillar. That's the logic. During this period the person is not in the labour market, is at home. And all children are taken on an equal footing, based on average salary and based on this calculation, contributions are made to the second pension pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U144	Thank you. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U145	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman. Good minister! But your logic doesn't make any sense. You explain very clearly here that these are the parents who are actually at home with the child. Then why do you still want a deal? I mean, you could just be on the basis of facts. But my question is that this bill introduces a link to parental benefit. At the same time, parental benefit is voluntary and does not take part. There are, for example, self-employed people who did not benefit from taking it out at the time of the minimum and who did further work at the same time because the minimum was not sufficient. So I have a question: why are you linking this to parental benefit? Is that justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U146	However, the first part of this question should also be answered. The system takes the facts into account. We have three components. Children born in 2013 and later are important for those who are actually at home with the child and are not asked for consent. The consent is sought from parents of children born earlier, who want a different situation than they do now. As an elder who is now receiving a pension, the years have been established and the husband and wife agree that the one year that is added will not be added to the one who is already receiving the pension, then their agreement will be necessary. Not on other occasions. In other cases, it goes automatically. For those on parental leave, payments are made to the second pillar. Returning to the parental benefit, there is no more connection to the parental benefit than the draft states that 1% is paid at the time of receiving the parental benefit. It is now necessary to start paying 4% of the average wage. That's the change. And the parental benefit is paid until the child reaches the age of one and a half years, then until the child reaches the age of three. If the parent does not complete the parental benefit, he or she will, of course, receive 4% of the average salary in the second pillar of the funded pension. In that sense, there is nothing illogical about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U147	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U148	Thank you. Good minister! Having known you for years, I can see that there is a great deal of enthusiasm, as is not the case with this bill. Maybe you don't quite believe it yourself. It wasn't your election promise either, it was like the other half. But it's still about the money. You understand very well that few people are born and that the Estonian people are aging. There is nowhere to take the money so that we will pay even more in the future. The only policy that is now likely to be implemented is to put the so-called 'young old's to work, those who are already retired, so that tax money still comes in. But I'm just asking you, it'll be easier to answer. This pension supplement will be granted either by the mother or by the father, and they will have to agree between each other. If they don't agree, then what?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U149	I am very enthusiastic because this is a very good bill. Seriously! I stand like a lion on this board with every bill that helps to increase family confidence, and I fight for them. Families now have the assurance that the other parents will be able to stay at home after having a child and at that time their pension assets will not be reduced, in many cases actually increasing compared to their employment. This is if their average salary is below the national average. After all, the pension payments are calculated on the average wage of the state, so the contributions of these people and their pension assets increase by this amount. For this reason, I am certainly defending this bill with great ferocity and with great pleasure. This is a good bill. When it comes to how parents agree, it is very simple. The current system will remain in force, in other words, in the event of a dispute, it must be decided by the court. Fortunately, these disputes are few. As a result, we have also made a compromise on this draft point. When discussing with various experts, it was understood that because of this new, emerging right, it is as if the will of a person should be expressed each time. We have come to a compromise here and decided that it is not necessary to express the will of the people if the parties agree by default that this will is the continuation of the situation. Elik, if she's been added two years, she's going to have this extra year. If, for some reason, Mom and Dad can't agree, we're gonna have to go to court and we're gonna have to argue. That is still the case. Some litigation may seem funny, but they're real. For example, one of the parents reaches retirement age early, goes to the pension institution to formalise the pension and says that he has raised the child, please consider the years of his child. The second parent reaches retirement age later, goes on to complete the pension and discovers that the divorced spouse has already completed the child's years in his name and says that he actually wants to get it. If no agreement is reached, there will be an argument in court about who actually raised a child for eight years. Such litigation may also take place in the future; this cannot be ruled out. But we have tried to do everything possible to keep these disputes to a minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U150	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to come to a subject that already appeared in this Chamber, and namely the possibility for the state budget to cover possible costs. When we are talking about these expenditures, it will take EUR 37 to 38 million a year, as you mentioned here. You said it was from the state budget. This is about the same amount that we are going to pay for the European Stability Mechanism over EUR 30 million. That's where we're gonna make a financing transaction, and we're gonna make an account of the shares, we can't do a financing transaction here, we can't take out a pensioner's balance sheet. However, we have not met our previous obligations, for example, the subsidies for disabled people are extremely low, but this is a new burden on our state budget. The government certainly discussed the sources of revenue, and that is my question: what are the possible revenue items to cover these costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U152	Thank you for your question. I am a little different with you in this sense that I believe that this is a very large investment in the future of the Estonian people. Yeah, we're not taking anyone on the balance sheet, but we're keeping very accurate records of births. Any step that helps a young family to build confidence to think first about having a child and then to have a child is an obvious investment in the future. In this sense, these costs should not be feared. But you can compare with anything you want. When we take the state budget apart, I've already made a comparison with road maintenance costs, investment in roads. Similarly, you might ask: Concrete or children? Do you or do people with disabilities? Maintaining the state is expensive fun, especially for a small country like Estonia. It's hard to make choices, but I believe that this investment in our future, in our children, deserves to be done. And so either we have to tighten our belts or we have to be ready to accept this cost as a society.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U153	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U154	Unfortunately, the explanatory memorandum to the draft has been drawn up in the way the initiators like it. I understand that the social tax paid today on parental benefit, this additional 1% there, is part of the source that will cover this 4%, which will be an additional contribution on average. But I am still asking the Minister for his pure interest: is there a difference between the fact that the parent raised the child for at least eight years, or do we appreciate that the parent raised the child until he was three years old? Does it matter in principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U155	Three and eight of course have a difference, Eiki. Of course it is! There's no two ways of understanding here. I'm saying we could have a debate on whether eight years is enough, but maybe after the official part. Why don't we set 18 or 15 for that line? It was eight. Our proposal, I say it again, is directly linked to who is raising a child during this period. And during this period, the parent who is on parental leave is at least responsible for raising the child, and I think, in 99% of cases, in fact, the parent who is on parental leave. And whoever is on parental leave can be both a mother and a father, and I very much hope that more and more fathers will be able to receive 4% pension contributions while he and the child are at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U156	Please, Mr Mailis Reps, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U157	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! When you answered my colleague, Yana Toomi, you spoke about the committees of minors and other fine things about the upbringing. But the discussion went on, and now I'd like to clarify the question. Suppose the person is paid a child is born after 1 January 2013 with 4% additional contributions from the funded pension fund. But a few years later, I don't want to call him a mother, for example, injects an overdose of drugs into his child, causing him very serious health problems. He or she will be deprived of his or her parental rights in court, while the State has paid for him or her for the funded pension. Shouldn't this option already be taken into account as an initiator? We're taking away people's rights to special national pensions. Perhaps in such a case, such an elder should not be entitled to that additional allowance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U158	I believe that this is a completely separate subject worthy of debate. This, however, is not just about this bill, it also concerns all the other subsidies that we are paying. We pay child benefits, we pay parental benefits, we give different types of rights. These issues are undeniably very sensitive and complex. How much can we take away from a man's acquired right, and can we? The same is true of the principle of funded pension. And we can further develop theoretical discussions on this soil. For example, if a person has paid taxes all the time and leaves us before he or she reaches retirement age, should he or she be entitled to his or her state pension? Jne. Such debates are very, very sensitive because they concern the rights that a person deserves and the possible withdrawal of these rights. Right now, I wouldn't say no to my final decision, would I? But according to the law, family benefits have been paid out. For example, suppose the parent has been raising the child wrong for a year or even taking a very complicated case: the parent has abused the child for a year, but in a year, family benefits have been paid out. Should he take away these family benefits now? What's the situation, we don't know. We do not know what this money is spent on, whether the parent has spent the allowance on himself or on the child. This is a sensitive issue, but it is certainly worth discussing a little more widely, but then in the context of the withdrawal of all such rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U159	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I now call on Mr Tsahkna, a colleague of the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to act as rapporteur for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Just in case, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U161	Ladies and gentlemen, For the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the most important issue is the survival of the Estonian state and people. Estonia needs children to last Estonia and its people, we need families, we need families to survive, we need families to cope. Only the birth of children, the upbringing of children and the desire of children who have grown up to love can guarantee the survival of the people and, in turn, the foundation of a new life through love. Raising children is a hard job. I was somewhat surprised by the questions of good opposition colleagues as to whether parental pensions make any sense as regards births. But together, let us imagine the next situation. You will be offered a choice between two options. One is hard work, long working days and a smaller pension. The second is lighter work, shorter working days and even higher pensions. Do you really think that the first option, the parents' own hard work, long working days and a lower pension, is what increases the birth rate? I dare confirm that we are different from yours on this issue, and we also have a different view of equal treatment for people. The Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance will fulfill their promise. We believe that parents must be able to feel secure throughout their lives. They must feel like equal people, equal pensioners also in retirement. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association believe, in the same way that population scientists confirm, that wider security, which is not limited to the moment of birth of the child, is really important, is an important state step towards the survival of the Estonian people. Unlike those in the Centre Party, IRL believes that a higher pension for parents is essential. Parental pension is one step in the entire national policy of solving the demographic situation. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association are confident that on average one extra pension per year for two children is inevitable, but far from sufficient. In addition to what has already been done in this Riigikogu, such as improving educational opportunities and increasing access to education, and the parental pension currently under discussion, it is necessary to move on to a comprehensive policy of population survival. The fact that we will end the injustice of taking the initiative of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance in this Chamber, hopefully unanimously, that, as a result of raising children, parents will still receive a lower-than-average pension, is also a major change for Europe as a whole. In many countries, political leaders have increasingly discovered pension systems that do not respect parenthood. A thing that has been known in itself to women and parents a long time ago. For example, Canada has only recently changed its pension system in this way, in terms of their average salary, that parents have the right to deduct the years spent raising a child for each child of their choice when calculating the average wage. This will give the parent a real chance to finally receive an equal pension with other pensioners who have not raised their children. Estonia has chosen a slightly different path from the pension system currently in force, but similar in nature, with the aim of higher and fairer pensions for parents. Estonia is among the most advanced countries in the world in evaluating and valuing parents. The Union of Isamaa and Res Publica will make every effort to move forward with the questions of the Estonian people's survival, the issues of coping with and supporting children and families, because the survival of the Estonian people is the most important issue for Estonia and the Estonian people at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U162	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U163	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. I'm opening negotiations. I would first like to call on my colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta as a representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U164	Dear Chairman, Good coworkers! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Social Affairs on Monday 30 April. The wider aim of the proposal is to value the work done in raising children and to establish justice. For children born before 1991, the pension supplement is now calculated, for children born after 1991, i.e. for children born during the Republic of Estonia, the pension supplement is not taken into account. The second wider reason is certainly that, in a situation where the most important objective of our country and our people is population growth and its survival, the country must take such measures. According to the draft, the supplementary contribution, i.e. the pension supplement, is paid to one of the parents on the basis of the date of birth of the child. In order to apply for additional contributions, the parent must submit an application to the Social Insurance Institution, which has been discussed at length here. According to the draft, one of the parents who has joined the compulsory funded pension will be paid a 4% contribution from the average wage in Estonia to the second pillar of the pension until the child reaches three years of age from 1 January 2013. If, for example, the child is born in early 2013, the parent contributions to the mandatory pension fund will amount to approximately EUR 1134 over a period of three years. For a child born between 31 December 1980 and 31 December 2012, who has been raised for at least eight years, one parent of the child shall be paid the first pension pillar pension supplement in 2013 and 2014 at two annual rates and one annual rate in 2015. The parent is therefore paid a total of three annual prices of EUR 15,4 per month. One parent of a child born before 2013 will receive an additional one-year pension supplement from 2015, amounting to 5.1 euros per month in 2015. The Commission discussed this draft, and the Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, made an overview, just like here. Members of the Commission also expressed an interest, inter alia, in the extent to which the cost of this draft had been proposed. This varies from one year to another, but the system will reach a ceiling in 2017, when all costs will amount to just over EUR 40 million. Much depends on the calculation of the time, but then the parental pension system will no longer grow. That's the ceiling. The Commission was also interested in whether it would make sense to put these funds into another measure for children and families. We discussed it. Indeed, the Committee on Social Affairs has repeatedly dealt with and is actively pursuing the problem of child poverty. It is not appropriate to contrast these two issues in this form with each other. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 9 May 2012, with a consensus. We also unanimously decided to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 14 May 2012. Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Committee, was appointed rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs. This decision was also consensual. I am pleased that the debate in this Chamber was so active. It is indeed a very complex system with objectives that are understandable and simple for everyone. I do not think there are any political parties present here today who would not understand that this is a very serious draft for solving a very important problem. Therefore, the debate also noted that although the law is expected to enter into force as early as 1 January 2013, the Ministry of Social Affairs still has time to make the necessary preparations with all its sub-offices, both technically and in terms of communication. I hope that we will be able to adopt the law by the end of this session, i.e. before the autumn. Implementation of the law requires effort and, above all, information for people, as one group of people affected by the new law must apply for contributions. Information must be accessible to everyone. As Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I certainly look forward to proposals and questions, if not in this Chamber, in the committee. If necessary, we are willing to hold additional sessions to discuss everything. We also intend to invite representative organisations from the parties concerned to ask them what subjects may need to be clarified, and perhaps also what concerns may still be. Despite the rather rapid pace of the procedure that the Commission is proposing, we intend to do very active and very open work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U165	Thank you, Mr Tsahkna. You have questions. Please, my colleague, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U166	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I am interested in the answer given in the language of specific figures on how much money each person will receive every month.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U167	Good questioner! This question is very good in the sense that the whole system is complicated, but the Ministry of Finance has calculated, at our request, how much these sums could be. For ordinary people, all these different annual values and the possible future pension supplements may not be understood. In fact, these amounts are significant. One of the reasons why we have submitted this draft is that people who have decided to have children or who have already had them have less pension assets than people who do not have children. There are subjective reasons, but there are also perfectly objective reasons. One reason is that their contributions to the funded pension fund are significantly lower during the period when they raise children, i.e. mostly within three years. The second aspect, which perhaps has not been addressed much, is that the funded pension system takes into account the income of the person. As a rule, women raise children and women's incomes are lower than men's, so their pension assets, or the real pension amounts they receive, are much lower in the future than those who have not raised children. The specific figures that have been calculated are in the order of magnitude which takes into account the value of three years. For one child, this amount would be EUR 184.8 per year, EUR 369.6 for two children, EUR 554.4 per year for three children. There was also a question in this Chamber about whether the 13th pension is correct in the case of a two-child family. Looking at these numbers, you might say it's true. Indeed, a two - child family, our normal family model, will have a 13th pension a year. This is a significant increase in pension assets. For children born after 2013, EUR 1134 will be paid into the second pension pillar over a period of three years. This adjustment is made by calculating that the benefits would be equivalent to those of the first pillar. So the numbers are in these orders of magnitude and they are not very small sums.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U168	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U169	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! My questions concern nuances, whether or not you discussed such problems in the Commission. Those who are going to receive this pension supplement will be agreed between the father and the mother, or will be decided in court by means of the law. But this could create a considerable additional burden for the courts. We have thousands of families where parents live together informally, they have a common wallet and children, but who knows how to go in the future. This is a large area that poses considerable problems in our country. Or, for example, if a mother dies in a family, will this pension allowance automatically be transferred to her father?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U170	Good questioner! Indeed, we discussed this issue in the Commission and also asked the people of the ministry what real case-law has been, how much has gone to court and how these cases have been resolved. There is a theoretical possibility of this, but there are very few cases in practical life. As a rule, even if a court has been seised, an agreement has been reached in the course of the procedure. This number is less than ten, which we're talking about. So there are no problems in real life. This system has already been in place for children born in the past, and it has been agreed for this two-year period, which parent will receive this supplement. But yes, regulation has been in place for quite a few years and there hasn't been much debate in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U171	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U172	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, In the meantime, I got a call from a person who's watching our discussion on the Internet and asked you to ask me something like this. A year ago, you signed a contract with the voters, promising a 13th pension. It's not coming now. There was no contractual penalty, but what are you going to do about it or what do you suggest people do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U173	Good questioner! I really must thank you for this question, because it allows me to say that this agreement is fully valid. This agreement will be enforced if we adopt this law here, and I am absolutely sure that we will. The Centre Party also supports it. While you were away from the hall, I read these numbers that you would have understood that the 13th pension from two children, just as we promised, would come. This amount will be EUR 369.6 per year for two children, i.e. 13th pension. The commas may change by the time they arrive in the future, but indeed our promise will be fulfilled, and I am pleased to say it here from the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U174	Thank you very much, Mr Liisa-Ly Pakosta. I would like to ask for a chair as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Firstly, I would like to say that the draft parental pension does not in any way remove the need to increase child benefit. I would also like to say to the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance that we now have 63000 children living in poverty or at risk of poverty, and these children must be raised. Secondly, I would like to say to the Minister, who, unfortunately, is no longer in the Chamber, that retirement pensions cannot be withdrawn. It's a private property of people. It can only be passed on if the parent dies before his or her retirement age. Thirdly, this bill is characterised by the fact that we will also pay the pension supplement to parents who have never raised a child. It would be reasonable and fair to assess raising children in the same way, not so that, in the case of children born before 2013, parents have the right and opportunity to give up the extra years of parenting for the benefit of the other parent also at retirement age, even every two years, so that two years will be used by one parent and two years by another. Today's law also provides that when one of the parents reaches retirement age, they agree and see who has raised the child for eight years. In general, there have been few litigations here; parents have generally always agreed to one another. As far as children born on or after 1 January 2013 are concerned, this option will disappear for them. If, for example, there are three children in the family and the mother has counted three years from each child, the second pillar has been paid to the mother, but the mother dies early and actually raises them as a father, then there is no possibility of formalising this pension for the benefit of another member of the family. I'd like to talk to you about another principle. If it is now decided whether the parent has been raising the child for at least eight years, the new principle is that he must have raised the child until he is at least three years old. Imagine the situation that a man of the Niperaadi type lives once, once with another woman, is always at home faithfully with the child until he reaches the age of three and receives parental benefit, but then he leaves the family and is no longer interested in the child. Maybe he's got five kids he's been home with until he's three years old. Can we say, then, that this man has raised these children? You can't! I think there are a number of shortcomings in this draft, although the principle that parents are generally going to receive a higher pension can be recognised. However, the draft has not been properly thought out and, in fact, the rights of parents whose children were born on or after 1 January 2013 are being curtailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U176	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a speech from my colleague, Mrs Toomi, as a representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U177	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, To tell you the truth, I wasn't planning on coming here, but I was amazed by Liisa-Ly Pakosta's speech. It hurt my gut. The thought of this speech was that, as can be concluded from the whole thing, this bill can only be carried out in this Chamber thanks to the selfless struggle of the IRL with the opposition of the Riigikogu, including the Centre Party. It is a mystery how one woman and one mother I feel sorry that she has left the hall and may become such an aggressive politician, even if one basically good draft is unanimously supported by the entire Estonian Riigikogu. Which does not mean that we do not see loose ends, which are numerous in this bill, and that we cannot ask questions, including perhaps very unpleasant questions. For example, I was puzzled, and I was not satisfied with Mr Minister's reply how it is possible that one draft information campaign will absorb a million euros. How do I say politely that is simply not possible. And there are more and more questions. In fact, the deadline for amendments is short, four days, but I believe that all together we can manage. We support this bill, it is basically a very good and nice draft. The only thing is, this retirement is going to be a no-good future, but you're gonna have to raise your kids today. I sincerely regret that fulfilling the electoral promise of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union is a great thing, that you are finally fulfilling your promises, very nice, let's hear it from the end of our lives, but those children who are currently receiving EUR 19 child support and who live in relative and absolute poverty, as nobody cares very much. So I hope that this bill is still the first step, even though it has been done perhaps in a bit of a different direction, but that's the thing. I believe that this bill will be useful, although as a mother, I myself am rather sceptical about the fact that this insured pension supplement actually affects someone's decision to give birth to a child in Estonia today. Because frankly, after the end of the maternity allowance, which we know to be paid for a year and a half, I have to deal with this child on my own somehow, without special state support, which is very unfortunate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U178	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 213 amendments on 14 May at 14 a.m. First reading of Bill 213 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U179	The next item is the first reading of § 502 of the Act amending § 502 of the Health Services Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U180	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy members of the Riigikogu. The Government will present to you a draft amendment to § 502 of the Health Services Organisation Act. The purpose of this Act is to supplement the rights conferred on the Committee of Experts on the Quality of Health Service in order to enable the Commission to deal effectively and lawfully with the requests of those who have changed circumstances. We have a proposal to add the following rights to the panel. Firstly, to refuse to deal for a second time with a case for which the panel has already carried out an expert assessment and it is known that the circumstances of the provision of medical care have not changed in the meantime. Secondly, oblige the health care provider to provide a written explanation in addition to documented data, such as medical records or medical records. At present, there is no obligation for the service provider to provide explanations, and in practice this has proved to be a very clear obstacle to the fair settlement of matters. The third amendment is to involve a lawyer and a psychologist or social specialist in the field of crisis counselling, where appropriate, as external persons. These persons would also have access to sensitive personal data if they were included. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs would be entitled to attend a meeting of the Commission, and the Ministry of Social Affairs would be obliged to provide the Commission with the necessary organisational support, including legal support, for example. The legislative amendment also allows the panel to involve a specialist in crisis counselling, as I mentioned. This should be the case when there is a need for additional support in organising contacts between the applicant and the Commission in a crisis situation. The necessary operating costs for the Health Service Quality Expert Committee will be covered by the Ministry of Social Affairs' budget and the peer review will continue to be free of charge for the patient. We support the Social Affairs Committee's proposal to conclude the first reading and, of course, to adopt the draft as a law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U181	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask a question, my colleague Andres Jalak!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U182	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a question about the first amendment on recurrent assessments. A reasonable point in itself, in my opinion, but here are the words 'except when new circumstances are revealed'. What could these new circumstances be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U183	Thank you for your question. The root cause of this change is the so-called recurring regular customers. People from the prison system in particular, but also from elsewhere, are addressing the Commission, but the circumstances of the referral have not really changed. However, the Commission may have the right and also the need to reopen the procedure if, for example, the healthcare provider has not provided all the documentary evidence or has not provided all the facts. If a person now turns to the Commission again and provides proof that the health care provider, such as the prison hospital, has not provided all relevant documents, the panel of experts has the right to reopen the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U184	Thank you. Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Thank you very much, Hanno Pevkur. I would like to speak with Mr Reet Roos, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U185	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act amending § 502 of the Health Services Organisation Act 198 twice, Monday, 16 April and yesterday, 8 May 2012. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, was invited to present the draft at the first sitting, in addition to Heli Paluste, Head of Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Martin Purin, lawyer of the legal department. At yesterday's session, we had our opinion to be represented by Peeter Mardna, Head Specialist of Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Anne Poll, and Marika Kabal, representative of the target group from the Estonian Patients' Association. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to send the draft to its first reading today, proposed that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set. May 23, 2005 at 6 p.m. All proposals were made in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U186	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U187	Good waitress! Why is the deadline for tabling amendments shorter than usual?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U188	That is how the Commission decided that at 6 p.m. on 23 May, because we would like to discuss the draft during this session.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U189	Any more questions? There are no questions. Thank you, Reet Roos! Do colleagues want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. The first reading is closed and the deadline for submitting amendments to the 198 draft law is 23 May at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U190	We are going to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of Bill 205 of Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to introduce you to this amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act. The aim of the amendments is to ensure the nation-wide supply and central management of country-wide guaranteed and funded antidotes for poisoning in order to reduce the number of deaths caused by poisoning. Let it be said here that antidotes are simply antidotes. In 2010, accidents, including vehicle accidents, falls, drownings, fires, freezing and poisoning caused a total of 752 deaths in Estonia. As far as poisoning is concerned, poisoning deaths amounted to 219, including accidental poisoning with alcohol, medicines or biological substances, gases and vapours, chemicals and harmful substances. The vast majority of these 219 deaths were caused by alcohol and drugs. Statistics on poisoning deaths 2005 to 2011 show that the number of deaths caused by alcohol and surrogate alcohol poisoning has fallen since 2005 and that the number of poisoning deaths caused by narcotic drugs is increasing. For many poisonings, the only life-saving means could be the timely administration of an antidote, so it is important to ensure the availability of antidotes in the country, and certainly the presence of antidotes in hospitals and ambulance brigades at different levels. Rare cases of poisoning are difficult to predict and therefore there is a high risk of drug withdrawal due to obsolescence and high costs for the hospital. Similarly, smaller hospitals may not have sufficient available resources to ensure preparedness. Therefore, in addition to the current antidote procurement and financing scheme, the hospital itself procures antidotes, and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund pays for this, a reserve of priority antidotes guaranteed and financed by the state. To facilitate the national management of the state's antidote supply, the National Health Board buys the reserve and distributes it to hospitals and ambulances for storage and use. The Health Board shall also determine the spare nomenclature and quantities as appropriate, i.e. which more poisoning occurs or which new and more effective active substances have been introduced. The advantage of this solution is that the money allocated from the state budget can be spent as much as possible on medicines. In summary, this amendment will help to reduce the number of poisoning deaths in Estonia, ensuring the availability and availability of the necessary antidotes. We are pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs also supported the completion of the first reading of this draft. I hope the bill can still be adopted in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U192	Thank you. Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. I would ask for a co-report from Reet Roos, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U193	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On Monday 16 April, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act 205. In addition to the members of the committee, Minister Hanno Pevkur, Head of Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Heli Paliste, Legal Adviser to the Legal Department, Kadri Kurvits, and Head Specialist of the Pharmaceutical Department, Tairi Välinurm, were present. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on today's agenda, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 18 May. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U194	Thank you very much. Andres Jalak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U195	Thank you. Good penguin! I know you dealt with statistics in the light of this bill, which are not of any minor importance to the antidote reserve. My question is, where do you classify fire deaths, whether they go under whining poisoning or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U196	Yes, I dealt with statistics and found out myself that in general there is a separate statistical code for fire deaths, including the effects of smoke, fire and flames, and they do not fall under conventional poisoning. For example, when someone gets stuck in a car and gets whiny poisoned there, it's a whiny poison. So let's say there are separate statistics on the presence of carbon monoxide poisoning caused by, or produced by, a fire accident.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U197	Thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal is to finish the first reading of bill 205. First reading is complete. The deadline for submitting draft 205 amendments is set in s. May 23, 2005 at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U198	Our fourth item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Tax Act and the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Juhan Parts, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government has submitted a draft concerning the amendment of the Public Transport Act and the related state fees. The purpose of the draft is to clarify and organise the regulation of state fees relating to public transport. The amendments concern the arrangements for the payment of the state fee for changing schedules and the conditions for exemption from the payment of the state fee. The rates of state fees charged for the registration of land vehicles and jet skis will be increased, on the other hand, the rate of state fees charged for the issuing of transit marks will be lowered. Under one paragraph, all operations relating to type-approval shall be grouped together. The rate of the state fee to be charged for the formatting of changes to the registration data of mopeds shall be established and the national fee shall be reduced for the issuing of registration certificates. The definitions will be harmonised with the new definitions of the Road Traffic Act and the regulation of obtaining data from the Traffic Register will be amended. One of the direct target groups of the Act is carriers within the meaning of the Public Transport Act. The positive effect of the law is, in particular, that carriers are exempted from the obligation to pay a fee for operations which are not required to be carried out by the carrier and which are not directly in the interests of the carrier, such as changing bus schedules due to changes in ferry schedules. The legislative amendment reduces the obligation for students in the Truck and Bus Administration profession to pay state fees upon receipt of an invitation which is expected to promote these professions and facilitate young people's access to them. In addition, the direct target group of the Act is manufacturers of vehicle equipment and systems, such as vehicle coupling hooks, safety belts or other such devices, as their wishes will result in Estonia testing the conformity of such devices with the requirements laid down in the European Union. The necessary procedures for recognition and the issuing of certificates shall be subject to a fee. The law also has an impact on legal clarity, since the definitions are aligned with those of the new law on traffic. For example, the new traffic law introduces new concepts such as the 'race car' and the 'old vehicle'. In addition, the regulation relating to the receipt of data from the traffic register becomes clearer. The state fee shall not be paid by the insolvency administrator or temporary insolvency practitioner if he requests the release of data from the traffic register in the case of an official assignment. The law harmonises and makes more justified the rates of state fees, both in the registration of off-road vehicles and jetty and in the format of changes to moped records. The State fee for the issue of transit marks shall also be reduced. The impact of the implementation of the legislative amendment on the state budget is not significant, as the additional State fees are offset by a reduction of charges with the same effect. I propose that this bill be approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U200	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I remember when we joined the euro, we talked about rounding up these amounts. Here, these rates of state fees have indeed been specified with the precision of a century or a tenth. Can't you round them up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U202	Thank you. We could, but we have not yet made such a radical proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U203	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U204	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The plan to exempt students from the profession of agriculture, truck and bus driver of a vocational training institution from paying the state fee for both examinations and driving licences is commendable. A lot of young men get their driver's license while they're in military service. Is it appropriate to extend the list of exemptions to be granted free of state fees in military service under the current regime?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U205	Thank you. I owe you a substantive answer. I don't know if it matters if a person takes an exam when he's in military service or if he's not in military service. My first reaction to this question is that it shouldn't matter. Let's specify that between the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U206	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask for a co-report from Kalev Lillo, member of the Chair Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U207	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed draft law amending the State Tax Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, in 203 s. a meeting on 16 April. Ain Tatter, Head of the Roads and Rail Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft. In the Commission, there was, in essence, one major question: what is the combined effect of this whole package to amend the state tax law? In response, we received a reduction of approximately EUR 20000 per year in the revenue of the State. Later, I compiled the exact figures and got 24272, about there it goes. There was no longer a debate. Procedural decisions were taken. The decision to send the draft law amending the State Tax Act and the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for the first reading was taken by consensus. a on 9 May, to propose to the Assembly that the first reading of draft 203 be completed and that the deadline for amendments be five working days, i.e. 16 May, at 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U208	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalev Lillo. Do the groups want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of bill 203. First reading is complete. The deadline for submitting draft 203 amendments is s. a 16 May at 6 p.m. I'll take the manager's break for five minutes. We'll proceed at 15.53. Break ends at 15.53.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U209	The fifth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft amendment to the Aliens Act and the State Fees Act. The draft has been developed because in 2011 the use of fixed-term residence permits became apparent. Some foreigners applied for a residence permit to work as a member of the management body or to have sufficient legal income in order to obtain a legal basis for stay in the Schengen area, but not to actually settle in Estonia. By creating apparent compliance with the conditions laid down in the Aliens Act, some aliens have obtained a residence permit whose real purpose of applying does not correspond to the claimed purpose. Since the misuse of residence permits applied for as a member of the management body and on the basis of the existence of sufficient legal income cannot be prevented under the current law, no immigration limit has been set for such applications since July 2011. The aim of the draft is to reduce the risk of misuse of residence permits as a whole and to ensure that persons whose residence in Estonia is in the public interest are granted a residence permit within the framework of the immigration limit. The purpose of granting residence permits is to enable persons who contribute to the development of the Estonian economy, science or other fields of activity to settle in Estonia. This draft sets out objectives for which a fixed-term residence permit is granted for business purposes and for reasons of public interest. If the granting of a residence permit to a person does not correspond to the purpose of granting a residence permit, the residence permit shall not be granted, renewed or revoked. The purpose of granting a temporary residence permit for employment is to promote the development of Estonian economy, science, education or culture by creating the opportunity to recruit foreigners with the necessary knowledge and skills. The purpose of granting a temporary residence permit for business is to encourage the establishment of branches of companies and foreign companies that contribute significantly to the development of our economy and to settle and operate in Estonia for self-employed persons. The purpose of granting a temporary residence permit on the basis of weighty national interest is to give the possibility to settle in Estonia by an alien who does not have a basis for applying for another residence permit, but who has a national interest in moving to Estonia. The draft establishes additional conditions for granting temporary residence permits on the basis of employment as a member of the management body of a legal person governed by private law. According to the current law, there are two main conditions for obtaining a residence permit on this basis: the company must be registered in Estonia and the person must be appointed as a member of its management body. In order to reduce the risk of misuse of residence permits, the draft introduces the following additional conditions: First, the company must be registered in Estonia at least five months before the application for a residence permit is submitted. Secondly, the company must have effective economic activity for at least five months before taking a decision on the application for a residence permit and the activities of the alien and his or her taking up his or her residence in Estonia must make a significant contribution to achieving the purpose of granting a temporary residence permit for employment. In addition, during the period of validity of the residence permit, the member of the management body must be paid at least 1,24 times the average gross wage in Estonia. This rate of remuneration is the same as that which, according to the current law, should also be paid to foreigners who have obtained a residence permit to work in other cases. The conditions listed significantly reduce the risk of misuse of the residence permit, but are not too burdensome for real entrepreneurs, as the latter can also be present in Estonia on the basis of a visa. The draft amends the conditions for holding and extending a temporary residence permit for more flexible entrepreneurship. At present, only EUR 63900 is a requirement for investment here. The draft provides for the possibility of fulfilling one of the following conditions instead of making this investment after holding a residence permit for one year. First, the company's sales revenue must be at least EUR 200000 per year or the company must offer employment to people whose total wage is at least five times the average gross wage in Estonia. The number of people employed by an entrepreneur is controlled through the collection of social tax. How much one of them gets paid is up to the entrepreneur, but in total their salary must be at least five times the average gross wage in Estonia. The bill waives the current basis for granting a temporary residence permit, namely 'Residual residence permit if there is sufficient legal income', as it was easy to fulfil the conditions for granting such a residence permit. Since the main condition for granting a residence permit is that the income requirement of at least three times the average gross wage in Estonia is met each month in the six months preceding the application, attempts were made to misuse the basis for granting that residence permit. In practice, the need to grant a residence permit on this basis has also fallen away. The draft establishes a new basis for granting a temporary residence permit: a temporary residence permit in case of compelling national interest. On this basis, a residence permit may be granted if it is in the public interest to move to Estonia and is supported by the Government of the Republic or government agency. The purpose of the amendment is to create the possibility of moving to Estonia by persons who do not have any other legal basis for doing so, but who Estonia wants to settle here. This basis for granting a residence permit is unlikely to be applied in practice, but the provision of such an option will help prevent a person who needs to come to Estonia from not coming to Estonia because there is no possibility of granting him or her a residence permit. According to the draft, a person who has obtained a residence permit for business or for working as a member of the management body may subsequently be a member of the management body of several companies. If a person actually carries out the functions of a member of the management body in a company, he or she will not compete on the Estonian labour market and the current restriction is no longer justified. The draft allows an alien who has obtained a residence permit to work as a member of the management body to work as a member of the management body of several legal persons. This company, for which an alien has obtained a residence permit to work as a member of the management body, must pay him a minimum of 1.24 times the average gross wage in Estonia. Other companies do not have to pay a fee to a person. A person who has obtained a residence permit for business purposes is also allowed to work as a member of the management body of several companies if at least one company pays him a fee of at least 1,24 times the average gross wage in Estonia. The possibility remains that if a person is employed as a member of the management body of the company in respect of which he or she was granted a residence permit, he or she does not need to be remunerated. There is a technical amendment concerning the name of a temporary residence permit for victims of trafficking in human beings. The name 'Renewable residence permit in case of overriding public interest' is replaced by 'Renewable residence permit for participation in criminal proceedings'. At the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the name of the temporary residence permit issued to the victim or witness for the duration of the criminal proceedings shall be replaced by a more representative name of its contents, namely 'Renewable residence permit for participation in criminal proceedings'. From entry into force. Some of the changes introduced by the draft are planned to enter into force as a matter of urgency from 1 July 2012. The new conditions for granting a temporary residence permit as a member of the management body shall apply to applications for residence permits submitted from 1 July. Previous applications continue to be subject to a zero immigration threshold. Temporary residence permits shall not be granted on the basis of sufficient legal income from 1 July 2012, but those who have already been granted a residence permit on that basis shall retain the possibility to extend them under the same conditions. Also more flexible conditions for a temporary residence permit for business purposes can be used by a person from 1 July when the law is adopted. The possibility to grant a residence permit in case of compelling national interest shall enter into force on 1 January 2015. The name "Renewable residence permit in case of overriding public interest' is changed to "Renewable residence permit for participation in criminal proceedings' also from 2015. This is not an urgent change and their implementation will require information technology development that takes its time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U211	Thank you to the President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Last December, when another scandal exploded in your area of government, the so-called Indrek Põdra case, both the Director-General of the Defence Police Raivo Aeg and the Deputy Chancellor of your Ministry Erkki Koort rushed to announce that there was no connection to the trade in residence permits. It is clear today that Indrek Põdra played a role in the scandal on residence permits, and for this he has also been convicted at one stage. Has the new draft improved the loopholes through which Indrek Põder was able to participate in the residence permit business?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U212	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I am pleased that the loopholes are being corrected, but my experience in dealing with this scandal from another aspect has shown that mistakes often occurred on the surface of the human factor and on the side of the executive. Why? Because the mass of these statements was very large. If I am not mistaken, there were eight people working in the KMO, or in the Citizenship and Migration Department, in this area last year, and therefore cooperation with other authorities was certainly affected. Are you in favour of solving the issue of human resources in the implementation of the law when developing the draft law, and if it is resolved, to what extent or at whose expense?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U213	Thank you for your question. This is, of course, a matter of tactical level. This concerns directly the administration of the Police and Border Guard Board, which must ensure the implementation of the law. Their task is to allocate resources within the Police and Border Guard Board to ensure preparedness for ex-ante controls and follow-up. We have carried out official supervision on this subject, and these proposals are for enforcement at the Police and Border Guard Board. There will certainly also be additional resources to improve the quality of ex ante controls in particular. But the main point that came out of the business monitoring report was the issue of follow-up. Follow-up checks must become more regular, in a positive sense routine, because, in the case of certain residence permits, we will actually only be able to find out whether or not the persons have fulfilled their obligations when applying for a residence permit. This can be done by follow-up. Thus, it is quite clear and unambiguous for the management of the Police and Border Guard Board to raise the quality of the challenge. There are resources and ways to do this, and I think that in the first half of the year, things will definitely get better. In fact, we learned this lesson for the first time in 2011, when applications started to come considerably more, and for the first time in real life, it tested the ability of the Police and Border Guard Board to review these applications, to carry out ex-ante checks in accordance with the instructions of the legislator, according to the regulation of the law. Of course, this has also put additional pressure on the quality of the follow-up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U214	Thank you very much. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U215	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, If I am able to assess the information correctly, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and your Ministry have different views on the validity of issued residence permits and the requirement to create jobs. The question here is: what are these differences?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U216	Thank you for your question. This is also what we addressed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was one of the first questions. The draft has been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and most of their proposals have been taken into account. So I cannot point out today any differences of opinion that remain, this draft has been created in cooperation. The draft, especially the residence permits and the purpose for which we issue residence permits, is in fact primarily in the interests of the Estonian economy. There is certainly contact with education, perhaps in other areas, but most of all with the economy. That is why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is precisely the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in terms of what the bases should be, what are the optimal deadlines for residence permits, a very large expert, and a highly valued expert and partner. I can tell you that by today, these differences have all been negotiated and overcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U217	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U218	Thank you. Dear Minister, It's in the interest of the economy, yes, but we still have to look at who's being brought in. I'd like to touch on the ex-ante and ex-post controls. The main issue of why it was possible to trade residence permits in the first place was still the lack of ex-ante and ex-post controls. This check is done by the Police and Border Guard Board. Consequently, the work has still been inadequately carried out. I am asking who has taken responsibility for this, whether anyone has been punished for it and what has been done specifically for the future, so that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U219	As I said in my introductory speech, the problems that occurred in 2011 were mainly due to the fact that the requirements laid down by law, the regulations of the law adopted by Parliament are too weak, particularly as regards the two grounds for applying for a residence permit: working as a member of the management body and having sufficient income. On these grounds, we have set additional conditions, which I have introduced. For example, at present there is not even an income requirement for working as a board member, which we are now imposing 1.24 times the average gross wage in Estonia. According to my information, this fee was removed during the parliamentary debate in 2008 mainly because of the fact that Estonia became a more attractive economic environment, but probably less attention was paid to the potential risk of misuse. The principle of why individuals are involved at all as members of the management body is probably that we have in law the basis for involving an established organisation, a trust in an established company to protect their investment, to carry out activities specifically. Misuse meant, however, that this good idea was essentially reversed. The company was created for the purpose of obtaining a residence permit rather than for the purpose of creating a company and for the purpose of protecting that company, this investment, a residence permit is applied for to its trustee, being himself an entrepreneur foreigner. I think that this'real-life pressure' for Estonia in 2011 and, as I said, for the other Member States of the European Union, we were not the only ones who felt it, simply means that the European Union has become much more attractive. The economic crisis has come to an end and people feel that a considerable challenge can be found in the European Union, that third-country nationals find it, that residence permits are applied for on various grounds. Above all, this activity comes from countries east of us. A positive balance must be found, on the one hand, to keep Estonia attractive to skilled labour, investments, entrepreneurs and those whom we really expect in Estonia, and, on the other hand, to ensure internal security, our internal security. It seems to me that this balance has been poured into today's draft, and I am sure that the draft will become even better in Parliament's proceedings. But we have learned our lessons, and I think that by adopting this law we should minimise the various risks and risks in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U220	Thank you. Please, Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U221	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The media have created two comparatively contradictory images of the circumstances from which this bill is due. On the one hand, the fact that residence permits could be obtained very easily, on the other hand, that now the pendulum is going to the other extreme and that it is putting some kind of punk on the Estonian economy. Would you disprove these claims that this bill makes business in the Republic of Estonia more difficult for foreigners?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U222	Thank you for your question. Just as I finished my answer to the previous question: we want to find a balance by minimising misuses, while not losing Estonia's attractiveness. By adopting the law on foreigners, we have clearly said that we are an open country for skilled labour, entrepreneurs and investments. At the same time, we want the requirements to be those that bring real added value, not those who seem to bring added value, but those who may have a different purpose. The purpose of granting residence permits is that people live here, they bring investment here, they come here as skilled workers. At the same time, we must take into account that the requirements laid down in this law must also protect the Estonian labour market. Let us remember that the inclusion of skilled labour still means that there are few skilled workers doing the same work in Estonia, that these people simply do not exist. After all, we know these examples of ship repair workers, welders, and others. This is the kind of skilled workforce that simply does not exist in Estonia, and that is why we involve them from outside, we are open. I think that, as a whole, it creates added value for the Estonian economy, Estonian society. So I can refute the argument that this bill is leaning on one side or the other. I would argue that this bill strikes a balance between both sides. You may ask the Minister of the Interior that we must deal directly with minimising security threats to Estonia. At the same time, as a member of the government, I feel a clear responsibility to think about other areas, such as our well-being, our economic development, etc. Therefore, I am certainly opposed to turning Estonia away. I think that, as a small country, we also need added value from third countries, but it must be balanced, it must be clear, with specific requirements. I think in this law these requirements are written as concrete as possible. Of course, the administrative body always retains the right of discretion, that is to say, in each individual case, to decide according to the law, to demand additional evidence, which can be done in administrative proceedings, and then to make that decision. So no one will be unduly harassed, no unnecessary bureaucracy is expected, but we have tried to put on paper such a good-for-nothing balance law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U223	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U224	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have this feeling that in the fight against illegal or semi-illegal practices that have been identified in the trade of residence permits, we are hurting ordinary people. I have one simple example of life. There's a grandmother who's pretty healthy and happy old lady. His kid's dead, but he's got a granddaughter. Granddaughter is a Russian citizen and Grandma wants this granddaughter to come live with her. He's a 19-year-old young man, well educated. The hope was that he would come here on this basis, which is now enshrined in the law as a legal existing income, since Grandma could support him initially, the young man would find a job and everything would be fine. Now we're losing this foundation from the law. I am currently looking at the homepage of the Police and Border Guard Board with horror and do not find any other basis for this young man to come to his grandmother and settle in Estonia. Can you tell me what's gonna happen to this person now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U225	Thank you for your question. Firstly, it is always possible to apply for a long-stay visa for a period of up to 12 months. Secondly, there is such a basis in the Aliens Act as settling with a relative when it comes to a minor child. In this case, it is not a minor child. An adult has the opportunity to use moving in with a relative as a basis for his or her parent or grandparent. Very briefly heard of this particular case, I can say that there are actually very many grounds for granting a temporary residence permit. I think we should sit down with experts, and if this is just such a humanly very understandable case, I would like to assume that this basis will be found in your example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U226	Thank you very much. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U227	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The law is meant to enter into force on 1 July, although not entirely, some points will enter into force much later, however. It's 9th of May today, and we only have a first reading. Whether the Ministry is prepared to implement the law when it comes into force on 1 July or whether it is intended to react quickly and receive a letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U228	Thank you for your question. Surely the aim is to react quickly. The Ministry and the Police and Border Guard Board are ready. This draft has been prepared since last autumn. There are very different parties here, there are business organisations, other authorities, very many ministries that are involved. So everything that's in the bill is ready. Why part of the paragraphs will enter into force in 2015? It is precisely because information systems need to be transformed when it comes to new foundations. Here we do not see the need to rush, we have a normal process of updating information systems, it takes its time, and that is why different dates of entry into force are foreseen. In general, however, it is indeed proposed that the law should enter into force in the middle of this year, and Parliament will decide so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U229	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As a condition for granting and extending a temporary residence permit for business purposes, the capital invested shall include the company's equity, subordinated loan and the amount of fixed assets accounted for. Does this still not leave the possibility that an alien businessman buys one apartment in Estonia for at least EUR 16,000, rents it out and receives a temporary residence permit for business in Estonia? Shouldn't the law be more precise and clearer in terms of the part that is understood as invested capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said in your presentation that Estonia continues to be interested in investing businesses from third countries to create added value, and not only seemingly, but actually. I hope that its control and follow-up, too, are not apparent, but real. However, my question relates to the additions to § 216 of the same Act, which give an alien the opportunity to apply for a residence permit if a legal person governed by private law has been registered in Estonia at least four months before the application for a residence permit was submitted, he has had a real economic activity in Estonia during at least the previous four months and an alien is staying in Estonia on the basis of a visa. My question is: who will look at this real economic activity and how? If it is an institution such as the Tax and Customs Board, have implementing acts already been developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U232	Thank you very much. A number of questions have been received! Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U233	Thank you for your question. I think it is important that anyone who has substantial input to this draft can do so. The Ministry of the Interior has not received any proposals from Parliament's committee, as far as I know, but when they come, we will certainly welcome them. Any proposal that makes this draft even better in Parliament's proceedings, even more polished, is only positive. As I said, the debate on this law in 2008 was, in my opinion, quite intense, a number of amendments were made to the draft that the government submitted to Parliament. Parliament will always be able to make its proposals during the procedure, and we will be happy to review them all, and we will, of course, also give our answers in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U234	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U235	Thank you for your question. To your previous brief question, concerning one particular case, I say that this must be resolved by the administrative body, not by you and me here before Parliament. I've simply listed various grounds for moving in with a relative. There are many of these foundations in today's Aliens Act. As I said, the solution may not always be a residence permit. It is also possible to apply for a long-term visa, which can come to Estonia and stay here with a part-time period, especially if it is an adult person, not a minor. Full-time, 19-year-old. As far as your question is concerned, this provision applies to the refusal to register a stay away from Estonia. It is possible to register a stay away from Estonia if this is justified. It is justified, for example, in circumstances where a person is temporarily going to study in another country or to carry out a short-term project. He informs the Police and Border Guard Board of this, the absence is registered and it is considered that this person is not present in Estonia for 183 days, but maybe somewhat less. This is all possible, and it actually shows the flexibility of the state, a reasonable attitude towards those people who really add value to Estonian society, but for whom such exceptions may occur. This is about registration of absence. Of course, the Police and Border Guard Board is the decision-maker here, and we have proposed in law the bases you read.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U236	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My second question is also a bit broader; it does not concern a specific lawn. Do you think that trading your former party associates with residence permits and thus granting a residence permit to Estonia, for example, to one of Interpol's wanted criminals and other potential criminals, was a security threat to Estonia and the Schengen area in general or was not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U238	Thank you for your question. There are many emotions and, let's say, different approaches to dealing with this subject. I took out an article on 30 January 2012 about an Ida-Virumaa lawyer called a residence permit consultant. This article begins in such a way that, according to the Estonian lawyer, it has become difficult or impossible for their clients to obtain a residence permit for Estonia, which has helped Russian residents to complete their residence permit applications at different times. It is, in fact, a very clear question of interpretation, who wants to interpret in the same way or to call it the same, the journalist here talks about persons who are engaged in the mediation of a residence permit, calling them residence permit consultants. I think that, in the same way, it can be said about persons who mediate visas, that they are visa consultants, who help people to file and submit visa applications, as we know under our law, must be a specific person themselves, or we may call them visa traders. I think these are emotional categories, the interpretation and attitude of which is frankly to say everyone's own question. As I have just quoted to you here, there are very different approaches.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U239	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U240	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! A committee of inquiry has been set up in the Riigikogu to determine the circumstances relating to the granting of temporary residence permits to foreigners. This committee has not yet completed its work. Have you considered that this draft law should not reach second reading until the Commission has completed its work and can propose amendments? Or have you already received proposals from them before the end of the Commission's work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U241	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U242	Thank you. There are quite a lot of terms mixed up in your question! As far as I am concerned, there were quite a few episodes of this information concerning the judgment of Indrek Põdra, and it was an abuse of office in very different cases. In fact, man tried to abuse his position in order to gain material benefits. One of these episodes was also linked to some form of promise that he could influence the issue of a residence permit. The administrative decision is known to be made by the Police and Border Guard Board. But the episodes that were then written in the judgment and which were also confirmed in the agreement procedure were much, much more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U243	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U244	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I understand that a residence permit is granted to a person who would like to live here in this country. But if he's being formalized here so he can do some things he calls business, it's not living. Can't these things be a little clearer? Some African countries, I think Mozambique, for example, give citizenship for money to people who are not granted citizenship anywhere else. In this case, I do not see that it would be much more difficult for a person to obtain a residence permit here. He's just gonna have to pay a little bit more for it, he's got a couple of tanks he's gonna pay here. Does this still make it more secure that we can be sure that there will not be another scandal of residence permits?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U245	Thank you for your question. Yes, you are absolutely right, the residence permit is granted in order to live in Estonia. Living in Estonia for the purposes of the Aliens Act means that the person stays in Estonia for at least 183 days during the year. That's the point. As I said in my introductory speech, there are a number of conditions that will be added. In particular, in 2011 there was a problem with applying for a residence permit to work as a member of the management body. The conditions of the 2008 Act for applications submitted on this basis are low, we are now setting additional conditions. There has also been a problem with applications based on adequate legal income. As a result of the analysis, we are losing this basis, because this basis is no longer valid, and we are also making some improvements, such as granting a residence permit in case of strong national interest, etc. I think that these changes have been made precisely in order to improve the gaps in the law which emerged just when the pressure on Estonia when applying for a residence permit increased considerably in 2011. Other Member States of the European Union have experienced a similar flood of additional requests. As we have spoken before, 2010-2009. There was no such problem with applications for residence permits when this law had entered into force freshly in 2006. The limit that had been set for those years was not fulfilled at all; it was fulfilled to a maximum of 80%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U246	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U247	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The draft law uses the term 'big national interest', which you repeatedly referred to in your report as one of the grounds for granting a residence permit. My question is: is this concept not too broad and does not, once again, leave in the law another opportunity that the clever can take advantage of, because who will ultimately determine precisely its weighty national interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U248	No, Mr Kallo, I do not agree with you in this regard. I don't see how the Clevers can take advantage of this vessel. Paragraphs 2001 and 2002 have imposed very precise conditions on the State interest. Firstly, this base will enter into force from the beginning of 2015. Secondly, this basis can probably be applied in very exceptional cases, in cases where there is really a strong interest either for some of the advisers or consultants who are wanted to be involved, but there is no basis for granting a residence permit in the Aliens Act, and it is supported by the Government of the Republic or by a government agency which considers it to be in the public interest to reside in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit. In that case, the administrative body may then take that decision. These are very exceptional cases, and there are additional conditions for granting a residence permit on this basis, so I do not believe that'smart' can make any use of it. After all, the problem of 2011 was revealed because the conditions that the law put forward and on which the previous Parliament had quite heatedly argued here were very lenient for certain bases. As far as I know, the Government of the Republic submitted a draft, where these conditions were slightly different, but in the course of parliamentary proceedings, as always during debates and discussions, things can change. Life has shown that conditions are too lenient for several bases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U249	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U250	Thank you. Dear Minister, I will continue with the same question. In a number of statements, as well as in the text of the explanatory memorandum, the terms 'big national interest' and 'public interest' tend to get confused and recur. The current version of the law also speaks of the public interest. What is the difference, or how is it possible to distinguish between public and national interests? I would also like to continue here with the issue I raised in the Commission. This concerns § 216 (1) (7), decision-making powers in deciding the public interest when a member of the Government of the Republic proposes. This decision-making power now goes from the Minister of the Interior to the Police and Border Guard Board. Can this level of discretion be brought to such a low level?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U251	Thank you for your question. The amendment to paragraph 216 (1) (7) concerns a case where it is not a substantive decision on the granting of a residence permit but a procedural decision granting the right to submit an application for a residence permit at national level while staying in Estonia. This is just starting the process of applying for a residence permit. I would like to point out that this is not a decision of substance, perhaps it is not so clearly set out in the explanatory memorandum, but it is a procedural decision, and this procedural decision could be made by the Police and Border Guard Board, which gives permission to apply for a residence permit while staying in the Republic of Estonia. The general logic of applying for a residence permit is that the application is submitted abroad. This is to keep people from arriving in Estonia on the basis of a visa, where they will then apply for a residence permit, possibly extending their stay in Estonia. That is, let's say, the undesirable principle of preventing immigration in the law. In this case, it is indeed in exceptional circumstances that an application for a residence permit is made at national level. This is what § 216 concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U252	Thank you for your question. We have also included an objective in the Aliens Act, which so far did not exist: it must make a significant contribution to the development of the Estonian economy. This concerns a residence permit for entrepreneurship. Whether this is a purposeful activity, whether the conditions are met, I can give you an example from Finland, which has been used on several occasions. In 2011, residence permits granted in the Republic of Finland on the basis of entrepreneurship were revoked more than they were issued. In other words, the general logic of issuing residence permits on the basis of entrepreneurship is that individuals take on responsibilities. Follow-up checks shall identify whether or not an obligation has not been fulfilled. Of course, the person will be given time to comply with the requirements, but if this is not possible, the residence permit will be taken away. This is how countries in general have issued residence permits for business, in the hope that this person, an entrepreneur who comes from a third country to a Member State of the European Union, will actually be able to add value to society, will actually be able to set up a business. If it is not, it is always possible to withdraw the residence permit. I think this system makes sense. This means that, as I also answered one previous question, quality follow-up and the creation and improvement of this high-quality follow-up at the Police and Border Guard Board will also be strongly addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U253	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U254	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Basically, I agree with you and support what you said about the balance of interests. In this sense, the state of Estonia, on the one hand, and representatives of sectors in third countries, such as businessmen, must be in maximum balance. This is a very important issue for me, because industrial parks are in Ida-Viru County, a practical example. Another very good example is Latvia, where this balance was achieved perhaps before we and where there is now a boom for investment. But I still have a question. Does this draft provide assurance that there will be no more conflicts between the interests of the country and the representatives of sectors in third countries, as has happened before, and that we will no longer read scandalous articles?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U255	Yeah, that's why the amendments to the Aliens Act have been prepared. The possibilities of today's law, the different bases where requirements may be small, have been examined and the requirements have been tightened up. At the same time, as I said, we tried to find a balance in order not to make Estonia an unattractive country, because, for the sake of skilled labour and business investment, we are competing with other Member States of the European Union. Many countries, both the developed old European countries and the newer accessions to the European Union, are now thinking about how to bring added value from third countries in the face of the economic downturn, how to attract those who create real value to the country and not want to come for any other purpose, for example, just to get the chance to travel in the Schengen area. This is where we have to look at the lessons that we can learn from real life and therefore adapt our regulation flexibly. I think that the regulation under discussion is precisely a good compromise between the two parties. As I said, misuses on the one hand and, on the other hand, the attractiveness of Estonia in terms of the real added value that we expect for our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U256	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U257	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the expenditure related to the implementation of the draft is approximately EUR 100000. What's the money for? Does this come from the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board, or do you think the Government of the Republic needs to find additional resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U258	Thank you very much. They come from the general budget of the Police and Border Guard Board and go to develop the information system. At the moment, the information system of the Police and Border Guard Board as a whole is being updated, and part of it is also being amended, which will be implemented when this law is adopted. One additional basis will be created here, the names of the other bases will be changed and the information system will therefore also need to be improved. As I said, the changes to the information system are planned to enter into force at the beginning of 2015, before any improvements to the information system are prepared. As a result, these costs are set out in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U259	Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U260	Thank you. I ask what the grounds for refusing a residence permit are in the future. Can't it be that instead of a skilled labour force, we bring in some underground character, as it has already happened? It seems to me at all that, on the face of relatively weak suspicions, we are conducting massive police operations, but at the same time we are muffling these very serious issues or not taking them seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U261	You know, Mrs Tuus-Song, this is a question that can be answered very briefly by saying that I would ask you to clarify a question of this degree of abstraction, or you could also answer at length. You mentioned, for example, the feeling you may have had as a member of society that mild doubts are being reacted strongly and not so strongly to the so-called real doubts. I think you're thinking about this case that's written in the press. This concerns one specific accusation made to the Police and Border Guard Board that officials of the Criminal Bureau, officials of the Central Criminal Police, have used too much force in one criminal procedure against individual persons. The investigation is ongoing. I think I know a little bit more about this thing than you do, and let's just say it doesn't look as innocent as it may seem. However, I dare say that the Police and Border Guard Board has responded adequately to what this flood of applications caused to their institution in 2011. If you are referring to the fact that the background of those who apply for a residence permit is not sufficiently checked, I dare say that the whole system has been reviewed today. Within their respective competences, different authorities are involved in the examination of applications for residence permits and, if there are specific factual circumstances on the basis of which it is possible to refuse to grant a residence permit, this will certainly be the case. The relevant administrative body, the Police and Border Guard Board, has certainly learned its lessons. Cooperation between the Police and Border Guard Board on citizenship and migration, the Central Criminal Police and the Defence Police has improved and will certainly improve further during this year. I admit that this cooperation could have been better in some cases in 2011, but these lessons will certainly be learned. There are sufficient grounds for refusing to grant a residence permit. This is certainly not being done rashly because it is an administrative decision that can be challenged. On the other hand, it must be said, as has been well explained to you at the beginning of the explanatory memorandum, that granting a residence permit is not a decision in which we can talk about a violation of human rights, because it simply does not fall under the relevant institute. The granting of a residence permit and, at all, the right of foreigners is clearly the sovereign decision-making power of one country, in which we can set conditions, we can set requirements and also monitor compliance with them. The decision will be made by the administrative body, but it must be argued. Excuse me, but it is not possible for a single administrative body to decide whether to refuse, even if it seems very right on emotional grounds, from rumours, even on the web. Decisions must still be rationally reasoned. In order to reduce them, various checks are carried out; of course, third-country authorities are contacted; there are also attempts to obtain criminal records, which are often not easy at all. It is simple within the European Union; it is much more difficult for third countries that do not belong to the European Union. So I'm sorry that the answer went a little long, but you see, I picked this other way. I did not answer you briefly, but I tried to answer your rather abstract question as complex as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U262	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U263	Thank you, Madam President. Maybe I'll get lucky, too, and I'll get a thorough answer. First of all, I would like to say, Minister, that you are wrong. Foreign law does not provide for the possibility of someone moving to live with a grandparent. There is the opposite possibility that a grandparent may move in with his grandson. But I will take this mistake with your kind permission as a promise that you will support an amendment if we do so. But here's my question. It is known that a residence permit will be cancelled if an alien is outside Estonia, I can't remember by heart, for 180 days in a row. The bill now contains such a provision that the Police and Border Guard Board may refuse to register a stay away if the alien's intended absence is not justified or does not allow the purpose of granting a residence permit to be achieved. Will the Police and Border Guard Board really decide whether this commercial objective is achievable and justified and what is unjustified absence?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U264	Thank you for your question. The easiest option to detect real economic activity is, of course, to look at the annual report, see whether the company is fictitious, is on the shelf, or actually brings some added value to society. As you have heard from my introductory speech and can also read from the draft, we have introduced possible specific concepts that could define real economic activity. We have said that the conditions for granting a residence permit on the basis of business may be an investment of EUR 65000, a sales revenue of a specific amount that we have proposed, or the creation of specific jobs in the Republic of Estonia. We have defined it through five jobs, which are valued on the basis of social tax. These are the proposals that we have also negotiated with the various authorities and business representative organisations, which will make a significant contribution to today's evaluation. As we know, the Aliens Act still applies and residence permits are issued on the basis of business, but now we have added even more specific criteria to make it easier for the administrative body, the administrative decision maker, to assess the actual economic activity. Of course, each case will be examined individually in accordance with the legal frameworks and regulations. That is our proposal, but if anyone has concrete substantive proposals on how to dismantle real economic activity even better, and if they are justified, we are only one big ear.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U265	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U266	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. A number of previous questions have sounded as if there had been some kind of sale or trading of residence permits. At least according to the data published in the press, it cannot actually be said that this would have happened. Rather, a service has been offered to make bureaucracy easier, to formalise documents more easily, and since it has been done by politicians, it has probably been inappropriate and has been responded accordingly. I welcome this principle that we will focus not on excessive or even upper-line checks before issuing residence permits, but on ex-post checks that, if something has gone wrong, it will be improved quite quickly and firmly. Finally, the question: can you confirm once again that if we adopt this draft as a law, it will not harm the economic environment and attractiveness of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U267	Thank you for your question. Yes, as I said in answering the previous questions, our aim is to strike a balance. These conditions, such as attracting investment, real business, have been amended in the Aliens Act. The proposed conditions are more flexible and I think they are more precise than they are now, easier to evaluate. Where exactly to put down this point of reference, I think it would be good to listen to Parliament's position here. We have made proposals with this bill. And I would like to hope that we will not lag behind other sensible Member States of the European Union, such as our northern neighbour, Finland, which focuses mainly on ex-post controls and where there is no requirement for a previous investment, but that people take on commitments. If they fail to fulfil their obligations, if they are unable to start a real economic activity in the Republic of Finland, the residence permit will be withdrawn. It keeps the state and society open to those who, after all, in a good way, are fishing for all the Member States of the European Union, especially those Member States that may need more skilled labour, who have less, who need more added value in terms of investment and entrepreneurship. I want to confirm that we have developed changes in cooperation with business organisations. The aim of the Ministry of the Interior is, of course, to take account of this from the other side of security and misuse. It is not easy to find a positive balance, a medium between them, but I would like to hope that we have been able to propose it now in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U268	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U269	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You did not answer one of my fellow Members Mr Toobal's questions before. I will ask this question again: is granting a residence permit to a possible criminal element a security threat to the country or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U270	Thank you! In the case of persons for whom there are clearly grounds for refusing a residence permit, but this authorisation has been granted, this is certainly a security threat. The law states very precisely what the grounds and criteria are, in which case it is possible to refuse to grant a residence permit. As I said, in 2011 the requirements for several bases were low and we tightened them up. Authorities, law enforcement authorities have also made their assessments of residence permits in 2011. As I answered one question, I dare say that last year there was room for improvement in these assessments. This system has been reviewed today, and I think that cooperation between the authorities and a review of each individual case are now better than it has been so far. Of course, we want to minimise security threats in the Republic of Estonia and in these cases, law enforcement authorities can still make assessments of individuals. If they don't show the red light, it means you can issue a residence permit to a person. I would remind you that a residence permit can always be withdrawn if there are grounds for withdrawing a residence permit provided for in the Aliens Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U271	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. No further questions. I would like to ask Mr Andres Herkel, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U272	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law 212 is something that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was very much looking forward to, because we came to the subject already, in fact, when the scandal on residence permits broke out. On 12 December 2011, we heard the Minister of the Interior on the subject. At the time, the Minister of the Interior pointed out weaknesses in the law, which, as he said, did not allow for a prior examination of the circumstances surrounding the application for a residence permit. The chairman of the committee took the view that the problem cannot be reduced to the weaknesses of the law alone, but we all agreed that the sooner these changes reached the Riigikogu, the better. And now they're in front of us. The Constitutional Commission discussed the issue at its meeting on 30 April, with the participation of the Minister of the Interior, the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Interior Erkki Koort, and the Head of the Service for Aliens of the Citizenship and Migration Department of the Police and Border Guard Board, Liis Valk. When I now look at the course of this debate and I began to think about what to highlight here, the same questions that came up in the committee were actually raised in most of the discussion in the Chamber. There is an extremely interesting pattern: namely, when these questions were raised by coalition delegates in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was mostly the representatives of the Central Party. Mr Efendiev must have started with the difference between the original approach of the Ministry of the Interior and the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which finally left smaller limits on the duration of the residence permit than was initially the case. This is the question that I asked in the Commission and Mr Maruse added to it. There are still many overlaps. Mr Linde asked the exact same question that Kalev Kallo asked: is the concept of a strong national interest too broad? The minister has already answered that question. Mr Linde also asked about the EUR 16 000 investment made by the self-employed, whether this still does not provide an opportunity, for example, to buy and rent an apartment and that is how primitive this business is. This is where Mr. Toobal asked for it. The answer in the Commission was that, of course, it cannot be completely ruled out, and the follow-up procedure brings clarity to the house. I think there was only one issue raised by our colleagues in the Commission from the Social Democratic Party, who have very little in the Chamber, namely this wage claim coefficient of 1.24 Estonian average. The amendment also retains the requirement that such an average must be earned in Estonia by a person working on the basis of a residence permit, only extending that it is possible to work in several different jobs or in several different companies together, but 1.24 of the average must come from one job. Both Kajar Lember and Indrek Saar thought it could come from different jobs. This claim was rejected by Erkki Koor, indicating that the coefficient was set to protect its labour market and that Estonian entrepreneurs would not employ too cheap labour. I think that this discussion, which was also quite long in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has more or less been passed on. It was decided to put on the plenary agenda today, 9 May 2012, to appoint a rapporteur and to conclude the first reading. The deadline for amendments is 10 working days on a proposal from the Commission, i.e. on 23 May at 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U273	Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. There's a question for you too. Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U274	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm asking you the same question I asked the Minister. The Riigikogu is known to have set up a special investigation committee to deal with the granting of residence permits and possible misdemeanours. What does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs see as its further cooperation with this committee of inquiry when dealing with this draft proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U275	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft 212 is s. May 23, 2005 at 6 p.m. First reading of Bill 212 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U276	Thank you. In fact, a representative of this committee of inquiry could indeed be heard. The establishment of the Committee of Inquiry was also carried out through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If there were any legislative conclusions on this draft, I would assume that the representatives of the Committee of Inquiry would be in the Chamber right now and raise these questions. I don't see that right now. But the question of raising as such probably costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U277	We will begin the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Securities Markets initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U278	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft is to facilitate the ability of undertakings to raise capital on the securities market. The European Commission has carried out a number of analyses and studies which have found that such inclusion has an excessive administrative burden. As the first major change, the requirements for drawing up a prospectus will be simplified for small and medium-sized enterprises. In the future, the prospectus will provide less information on various assets, including plants and equipment, as well as on key resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U279	Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U280	Secondly, the mediation of the sale of securities will be facilitated. According to the new requirements, the financial intermediary is not required to draw up a new prospectus but can rely on the issuer's own original prospectus. Thirdly, it will be possible to make forward-looking offers to a wider range of investors without creating a costly resource-intensive sales prospectus. The threshold for targeted tenders shall be increased from 100 to 150. This means that a buyer interested in shares or bonds must be found without public participation. Fourthly, information on issuers of securities will be made more investor-friendly. The amendments shall specify which information is to be included in the summary document and to what extent. As an example, a brief description of the issuer's assets, liabilities and financial position, the investment risk associated with the securities offered, the costs that the issuer may charge the investor for the acquisition of the securities, shall indicate whether the securities are subsequently quoted on the stock exchange, for example. The aim is to ensure that the summary documents on prospectuses are uniform and comparable. This will give investors a better chance to consider different offers when acquiring securities. As a summary, the changes should encourage companies to raise capital through the securities market. According to statistics, a large majority of Estonian residents keep their savings in bank deposits. If current depositors decided to direct their savings directly to the development of Estonian business when buying more securities, they would also revive the Estonian economy. The money in pension funds could also be channelled more into the Estonian economy. Above all, however, businesses themselves should create more opportunities to invest in their own businesses. The draft will create more favourable ground for this. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U281	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Mr Jürgen Ligi. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of Inara Luigas, Member of the Monetary Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Law on Securities Markets initiated by the Government of the Republic was on the agenda for the meeting of the Monetary Commission for the first time. a on 3 May. The objectives of the draft were presented by the Minister of Finance. All these amendments are based on Directive 2010/73/EU of the European Union, which amends Directive 2003/71/EC of the prospectus and Directive 2004/109/EC of the issuer of securities. I would add that Member States are obliged to transpose this directive. a by 1 July. The Commission took the following decisions on 3 May: to put the draft on the plenary agenda. a on 9 May and set 10 working days, i.e. 23 May, at 6 p.m., as the deadline for tabling amendments to the draft. The decisions were consensual. For the second time, the Commission discussed the same draft on 8 May. In the Commission, Thomas Honourable, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft. The debate in the committee was brief, as there were no substantive changes to the Securities Market Act. Only a lot of technical and technical changes were made that specified the issues arising from securities prospectuses. Issues such as raising the thresholds for targeted offers of securities were also addressed. If earlier the draft envisaged a targeted bid for 99 investors, it was later extended to 150. The draft terminology was also asked. The law introduces the term "small and medium-sized enterprises'. The definition of a self-employed investor and the regulations applicable to a professional investor were also addressed. At its meeting on 8 May, the Commission decided that the first reading should be concluded. This decision was also taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U283	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Inara Luigas. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to finish the first reading of bill 220. First reading is complete. The deadline for submitting 220 amendments to the draft is 23 May 2012 at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U284	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Forensic Law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U285	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This is once again a very good bill. As stated in the draft explanatory memorandum, the aim of the draft is, in particular, to organise regulations relating to the forensic field and to bring the laws into line with both national and international legislation, i.e. we want to better protect the rights of individuals. Next, I would like to look at the most important points that are planned to be introduced into Estonia's legal order. A large part of the draft is made up of changes to the national fingerprint register and the regulation of the national DNA register. Regulation concerning registers is currently fragmented and difficult to grasp, and is based on several laws. Since registers contain sensitive personal data, there is a need for a clear and unambiguous set of rules on which data are to be entered in the registers, how the data will be processed and on which basis and within which time limits the data will be deleted from the registers. As Estonia is planning to switch to automated data exchange with other European Union countries for fingerprints and DNA data, more precise regulation of registers is necessary to fulfil international obligations. The bill updates the price list of the expert analyses. In the case of a number of expert analyses, the cost of the expert analysis will be shifted from the price of the subject to the price. For example, if the document expert currently pays EUR 246, the draft will set the document expert price at EUR 77 per document. This distribution allows for a fairer calculation of the expert fee, i.e. based on the volume of work carried out. The price list for forensic psychiatry will also be specified. While the current price is determined by experts participating in the expert review (EUR 255 per expert), the draft stipulates that the cost of Commission or complex expertise is EUR 380, regardless of the number of experts involved. The price is also set at EUR 125 for forensic psychology experts. Currently, the price is calculated on the basis of forensic psychiatry experts, which is EUR 255. A separate package of amendments is the revision of the regulation in the field of judicial expertise in the procedure for the imposition and placement of custody of a person provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure. The amendments will ensure that judicial psychiatry expertise is more consistent with medical practice. The main change is the extension of the person's placement in a closed establishment within the framework of the initial legal protection period from 14 to 40 days. At this point, I am sure that quite a number of people wonder why this deadline is being extended. The answer to this question is that such a proposal was made by the doctors. Generally, a person with a temporary psychiatric disorder does not improve within 14 days, as the medicines used only work after approximately six weeks of treatment. Consequently, it is also necessary to place the person in a closed facility for a longer period of time only after completion of the course of treatment. Only then can it be assessed whether the person's mental disorder was of a temporary nature and his condition has stabilised, so that longer-term placement in a closed establishment is not necessary. The appointment of a person to a closed establishment will continue to be decided by the court in the case of initial legal protection, but the amendment means that a judge can take into account the opinion of a psychiatrist when extending the initial legal protection and does not need to immediately appoint a psychiatric expert. If, within this 40-day period, it appears that the medicinal products have not had the intended effect and that the person must continue to be kept in a closed establishment, the court may appoint a psychiatric expert. The draft also provides for the possibility, where the same person is simultaneously subject to judicial proceedings, to have an application for placing him in a closed office and to appoint a guardian, to appoint a joint expert report. The purpose of the provision is to make more efficient use of resources and to burden the person with less expertise. At this point, I would like to emphasise once again that the role of the court in the proceedings will not change. The decision to place a person in a closed establishment shall continue to be the jurisdiction of the court. Similarly, the 40-day period resulting from the amendment is only the longest possible period and, according to each individual case, it will continue to be possible to set a significantly shorter time for initial legal protection. The release of a person from a closed establishment will also continue to be ensured as soon as the conditions for placing him or her in a closed establishment and for applying treatment beyond his or her will have fallen away. At this point, I will conclude, and as a representative of the Government of the Republic, I will certainly support the completion of the first reading of the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U286	Any questions for the performer? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, vice-chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U287	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The draft law was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 30 April. Our festive debate was chaired by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Commission, and took part in the discussion by Kalle Laane, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits and Valdo Randpere. Carina Rikart, Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide participated as advisors. Invited were Kristen Michal and Ministerial Adviser Madis Timpson and Counsellor Julia Antonova of the Department of Penal Law Procedure of the Ministry of Justice. As always, we had a very substantive debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. First, the minister gave an overview of the draft. As he has already told you, this bill has three objectives: the DNA and fingerprints register, the prices of forensics and the time limits for initial detention. Indeed, there were a number of questions to which substantive answers were also received. The first serious question that arose was about the 40-day detention period. Julia Antonova explained that the detention period was three months, then it was changed to 14 days, and eventually, in consultation with doctors and discussions with specialists, it was reached that 40 days was the optimal detention period. Questions were also raised as to who should come up with the desire and will to implement the initial legal protection. The answer was that in both cases there must be a hospital's initiative and, if the detention period is to be reduced, the doctors must likewise conclude that detention is no longer practical or necessary. As regards the prices of the expert analyses, it was explained to us that the aim is to adopt a cost-based approach, which is not applicable to all types of expertise, but, overall, that is the aim. Neeme the Great wondered whether this could not be about turning into a cluster law. That suspicion was denied. Maarika Tuus-Laul had a question about whether and what indication remains of the detention of the person. It was answered that all data is included in the health records, i.e. the necessary information is also available in the judicial information system. Kalle Jents asked about the fee for forensic psychiatry and commented on it. The question was, how many cases are there in the year where the initial detention procedure is applied. The answer was that there were thousands between 3,000 and 4,000 of them in a year. Andres Anvelt was interested in the time and length of the DNA record, which is by law 75 years, 40 plus 35. Igor Gräzin dealt with the question of the price of expert analyses in two respects. One aspect was that, at some point in time and for reasons, expert assessments are not carried out, giving the reason that the expertise is too expensive. After all, it was found that the prosecutor's office still has to decide whether or not to order an expert opinion. The second part of Mr Gräzin's question was whether the prices of expert analyses must be included in the law that this is a price list for one institution. Julia Antonova confirmed that prices had previously been set at the level of the Government of the Republic regulation, but the Chancellor of Justice's objection was that it was unconstitutional. It was decided to send the draft to the first reading on 9 May with a proposal to close the first reading and to set the deadline for the amendments at 16 a.m. on 23 May. I was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U288	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kalle Laane. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal is to finish the first reading of bill 202. First reading is complete. The deadline for submitting draft 202 amendments is 23 May 2012 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U289	We will go to the next item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Family Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, please present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U290	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This is once again a very good draft. The need for this draft was brought to the attention of the Ministry of Justice by the guardians of the disabled. What is the problem, and what is this bill about? The problem is that the current wording of the family law allows for a grammatical interpretation of the law to be understood as if guardians had to prove, on a case-by-case basis and by means of purchasing cheques, among other things, the day-to-day maintenance costs of guardianship. We invited interested parties s. a On 6 March, we discussed what we could do to make life easier for guardians who are doing a very grateful job. Together, it was found that every little payout check really isn't rational to present to the judge, but some kind of reporting obligation should remain. Ultimately, it was understood that the Ministry of Justice could propose a solution. The Ministry of Justice developed its own regulation and sent it to stakeholders for inspection. On 5 April, another round table on custody took place, attended by judges dealing with custody matters and consultants dealing with the supervision of guardianship from the county courts, in addition representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Justice, Estonian Association of Rural Government, Lasnamäe City Government, representative organisations of persons with disabilities, NGO Eesti Eestkoste koosteöht. The draft was sent to the Chancellor of Justice, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, Tallinn Support Centre Juks, Käo Päevakeskus, the Association of Estonian Lawyers, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, the Association of Estonian Cities and the Estonian Bar Association, the Chamber of Notaries, the County Courts, the District Courts and the Supreme Court, which in the majority agreed with the objectives of the draft. The result of all this work is on the table in front of you. The draft contains only two corrections which the current law seeks to make. In short, the aim of the draft is that, in the future, the guardians will not have to submit every check to the judge, but will be enough to bring out the monthly amount. It also reduces red tape. I would like to point out here that the purpose of this draft is not to completely abolish the obligation to submit the guardian's report, but to clearly simplify the presentation of the report. The court should supervise more closely the activities of the guardian only in respect of assets exceeding daily expenses or in cases where there are doubts as to the quality of custody of a person who is incapacitated. This principle also remained the case at the meeting with persons with disabilities and their parents' representative organisations. A more thorough control for the protection of guardians is justified when there are problems in meeting the primary needs of guardians or when there are doubts as to the use of assets in excess of the daily costs. Before I finish, I would like to thank all the parties involved in this process for their advice and for their strength. It has to be acknowledged that this process was quite rapid, but I believe that the result is acceptable to everyone. At this point, I will conclude, and as a representative of the Government of the Republic, I will certainly support the completion of the first reading. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U291	Any questions for the Justice Minister? There are no questions. Thank you, Kristen Michal! I would like to ask for a co-report by Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U292	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. As the good minister has already said for the introduction, this is a good draft. I totally agree with him. This is perhaps not a very good draft from the point of view that, in some respects, we are ignoring good legislative practice, but we are doing it for a very noble purpose. In the case-law of the courts, there was an interpretation of the law in force, which made the life of guardians excessively complex and brought to the attention of the press. I too received comments and attentions on this, including from my friends on Facebook, and then we talked to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and discussed this matter a few months ago. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Justice reacted so quickly and adequately, was able to bring together interest groups and bring before us a legislative amendment that really makes the lives of people whose lives are already quite complex and difficult, a little easier and less dependent on bureaucrats. This issue was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 30 April. Kalle Laanet, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits, Valdo Randpere, Carina Rikart, Linnar Liivamägi, Raini Laide and the invited Minister of Justice Kristen Michal took part in the meeting of the Commission, and Madis Timpson, adviser to the Minister of Justice, and Andra Olm, adviser to the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister of Justice and the Counsellor of the Ministry of Justice gave an overview of the need to initiate the draft and presented its content, and they also answered questions from members of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Questions, I must say, were not very many, because all Members of the Commission immediately understood how important and necessary this change was. The members of the Commission were consensually in favour of completing the first reading. It was also proposed, by consensus, that the deadline for amendments to the draft be set at 4 p.m. on 23 May and that Valdo Randpere, or I, be appointed as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U293	Thank you very much. Please, Jaak Allik, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U294	Mr. Waitress! There is a local government in Estonia, I mean the city of Narva, where it has become such a practice that one guardian is assigned dozens of guardians, even more than 30. Was there a debate in the Commission, or what possibility do you see, how a check should be carried out if no documents are to be submitted under the current legislative amendment? What can be done to resolve such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U295	Good questioner! The Commission did not directly discuss how to resolve the issues that have arisen in Narva. However, I would like to point out that this bill does not completely exempt guardians from submitting documents. The court will not ask them for documents on day-to-day maintenance costs; it will simply assess the need for monthly expenses. However, if there is still a special departure, it is certainly still necessary to produce documents and the court is obliged to check them in substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U296	Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U297	The patho of my question is, in fact, that when the family law was adopted in its time, no material, spiritual or financial means were added to the courts to comply with it. I mean, it is not possible for the courts to deal with the whole of this cheque economy, it was not before, and it is not now. Wouldn't there be any other way around here not to burden the courts with what they don't want and can't deal with?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U298	Thank you. Again, a very interesting question. Unfortunately, this aspect was absolutely not touched on by the Commission. There's nothing I can do to help you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U299	Please, any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much, Valdo Randpere. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. The deadline for submitting draft 214 amendments is s. 23 May 2010 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U300	We come to the last point of order, which is the first reading of draft 225 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations observation mission in Syria." Mati Raidma, chairman of the National Defence Commission, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U301	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee submitted the draft under discussion to the Riigikogu proceedings. a 30 April. The draft and explanatory memorandum were prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence in cooperation with the Chairman of the National Defence Commission and the Chairman of the Commission's Adviser-Secretariat. In view of the situation in Syria, the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) took over. a On 21 April 2009, Resolution 2043 on the establishment of the United Nations Mission in Syria (UNSMIS) in Syria (UNMSMIS) was adopted. The UN mission in Syria is internationally high-profile and is currently at the heart of the political focus of all major powers and members of the UN Security Council. The readiness to contribute to this mission has been identified by 81 countries that have submitted their candidates to Syria for military observers by the end of April this year. As of 8 May, countries such as Norway, Finland, Denmark, Belgium, China, Russia, Switzerland, Brazil, etc. and 60 of the expected 300 observers have already contributed. The Head of Mission, who became Major General Fashion of Norway, has also been appointed. According to the draft, Estonia will contribute to this mission with up to two military observers and the duration of the participation of Estonian Defence Forces will be directly linked to the mandate of the UN Security Council. UNSCR 2043 also provides for the conclusion of a Status of Mission Agreement between the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Government of Syria to guarantee the legal status of the personnel seconded to this mission. Pending the conclusion of SOMA, the presence of observers in Syria shall be governed by the model SOFA (model status-of-forces agreement for peace-keeping operations), which shall be valid from 9 October 1990. Participation in the mission of Syria is a necessary foreign policy step that supports Estonia's wider UN-oriented activities and fits with the plan to increase Estonia's participation in UN activities and Estonia's desire to become a elected member of the Security Council between 2020 and 2021. As a Member State of the United Nations, Estonia also needs to participate in the organization's peace initiatives as it sees fit. As a member of the international community and a member of the UN, Estonia has a duty, alongside its rights, to contribute to the UN's efforts to ensure peace in crisis areas. The deployment of Estonian Defence Forces helps to strengthen Estonia's contribution to the UN's activities in securing peace. The Defence Forces are currently participating in one UN-led post-conflict peacekeeping mission called UNTSO, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. The Riigikogu has extended the mandate to participate in the UNTSO mission of the Defence Forces until the end of this year. This mission is also an observation mission. The draft was directly related to the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A meeting of 8 May in the Defence Forces General Staff, where the members of the Commission received a thorough overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of the international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces, including in the mission area set out in the draft under discussion. At the meeting of 3 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft decision be included on the agenda of today's Riigikogu for the first reading. On 30 April, the National Defence Committee appointed a speaker here to be the member and rapporteur of the Riigikogu responsible for the draft. The National Defence Committee decided s. a At its meeting on 3 May, by consensus, the Riigikogu is invited to terminate the first reading of this draft decision and, on the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to fix the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments. May 14, 10.30 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U302	Thank you very much. You have a few questions. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U303	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There is no doubt that this draft will meet our foreign policy objectives, but my question is why the government did not come up with such a draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U304	Thank you. The reason is simple in itself. Such a fresh crisis area and a rapid UN Security Council resolution imposed certain time limits. In order not to go through the entire sequence of procedures and the coordination circles that comes with the draft coming from the government, there is a possibility that, in cooperation with the respective ministries, the draft could also be initiated by the National Defence Commission. Although our Rules of Procedure do not require this, we have sent the draft to the government for a position. This statement is coming from there and will arrive for the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U305	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U306	Thank you very much, Mr President. A very simple question: are our observers armed and what is their military rank?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U307	Thank you. As far as the UN military observation missions are concerned, these are non-armed militias, which means they have no weapons at all. There is an agreement between the United Nations and the Syrian Government that the Syrian government forces will take on the security of observers. Whoever's watching the news feeds knows it's a pretty hot conflict where there's still armed clashes. So, of course, this is not a simple mission, and that is why people are chosen thoroughly. In addition to Estonia, the candidate will review the UN and make his/her selection. Certainly, the candidate is an officer and certainly an officer with the relevant knowledge and experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U308	Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Thank you very much, Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U309	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-09_U310	Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft decision. First reading is complete. The deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft 225 is s. May 14, 10.30 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, this has exhausted our agenda today. I wish everyone a nice evening. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.44 p.m.
