ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the ninth Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party has a draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and the Political Party Act. In recent months, and especially in recent days, we have talked more and more about the fact that the Estonian political party system and the Estonian political system should be more open. We have talked about the fact that in order for representative democracy to function, the political forces represented in society must have an outlet for Parliament. If the interests of society with less support cannot be found in the parliamentary process, they will be forced to seek their outlet outside Parliament. The transfer of political debate from Parliament indicates the need to improve the functioning of representative democracy. We are therefore presenting a draft aimed at facilitating the registration of new political forces as a political party, participation in the elections and reaching Parliament. The aim is also to make public funding for political parties more proportionate. Among other things, we propose lowering the electoral threshold from 5% to 4%. The election of low-subsidised candidates gives rise to resentment and criticism of the electoral system. Even now there are people in the Riigikogu who have collected almost 300 votes. So we are in favour of the open lists and we have proposed it here. We propose a reduction in bail and, of course, the minimum number of members required to register a party from 1000 to 500 members. We hope that this draft will be a good initiative so that the debate in society will continue and that Parliament will not be left out of this work and will not say that something has been taken away from it. We have proposed. We hope that everyone who is also interested in this matter outside Parliament will be involved in this, and that this will be a good start for discussion. We hope that the procedure for this draft will not be delayed, as has been the case with some other drafts on the same subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U3	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! It's nice to see you so bright at the end of your tiring work! The Social Democratic Party Group submits a draft law amending the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act to the Riigikogu's proceedings. We can talk about a more open and closed political matter, but if the work of the Riigikogu committees remains organised in the same way as the Rules of Procedure Act currently provides, the public cannot say much about open and constructive affairs. We do not want to turn the meetings of the committees into a public meeting; they will have to maintain their working status in the future. However, these civil society organisations, which have been, in essence, always partners in Riigikogu committees so far, should receive the status that would enable them to participate in the work of committees without the invitation of the chairman of the Riigikogu committee, if they consider it right and want to say their word. At the moment, when the drafts submitted by the Government have reached the Riigikogu through their civil society associations and with the help of the Riigikogu, they are aware of them, but the drafts that are born in the Riigikogu have not been seen by these associations. We are proposing to change the procedure for recording the work of the committees. The co-rapporteur should not blush when he is asked how someone in the Commission voted on an amendment. Secondly, it is just polite that what you are saying in the Commission also goes somewhere in black in white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U5	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am happy to see so many rested faces and also those faces that may not have been so rested, but they are brightened by the speeches, questions and discussions of the night. Haven't they been great for 20 hours? I am thinking not only of breaks but also of a substantive debate on drafts. In 20 hours, we have come to discuss nine drafts, or rather, to discuss the ninth. I have an inquiry to report to Juhan Parts. This is about the subject that we have been working here for 20 hours in a row today, and probably at least 24 hours, maybe a few days longer, we will continue this work. This topic is the price of electricity. You all know that the government is holding levers to mitigate the increase in electricity prices from 1 January next year. This could be done through tax rulings. We are talking about reducing electricity excise duty to 4.5 times, or the European Union's minimum rate. This would benefit both families and the business environment next year. That's what Juhan Parts promised. However, what he does with a renewable energy fee is three times less effective than lowering the electricity excise duty. I'm sure we'll support him on this, but that's not enough. We therefore have four questions for him. We know that the Minister will probably only be able to answer the question in January. Now there are two possible options. If the government opts for inaction, then in January all Estonian people will expect larger electricity bills. If the government decides to change the current road roll policy, it is ready to sit at the table and find a suitable source of cover for the reduction of excise duty, let us acknowledge that there are some sources of cover in the Estonian state budget, if 30 million euros are found overnight in the Greek aid package, then we will do something good here together and soften the price increase for next year. For that, you would be commended by the people who signed an IRL agreement in the elections, as well as by those who did not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Now, please, let's do the presence check! Checking presence 87 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 14 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U8	Now let's move on to a nice discussion on how to kill animals humanely. Mr Kalvi Tõvi, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, please. Let's keep asking questions. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Good Commission waitress! I think this is a very good draft. We should protect animals more than we have so far. I think this bill will provide support for this. But it seems to me that the law has sometimes gone absurd. Let me get this straight. The bill now legitimises the killing of moles in the home garden.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U10	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U11	Thank you, good questioner! No, as far as I know, it doesn't legitimize mole killing. Let's just say there is a regulation on the killing of farm animals, but, of course, all animals must be slaughtered in accordance with the animal protection law. This was not discussed in detail in the Commission. We're talking about killing farm animals right now, but moles as experimental animals go under this law as experimental animals. But, good Tarmo, if you'll allow me, I'll fix one mistake before you answer. I drew your attention to the order I called the Government of the Republic Order. However, we have so far acted on the basis of a Council of Europe regulation which since 2009 regulates the treatment of animals when they are killed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U12	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Under what conditions can a religious association in Estonia kill an agricultural animal for religious purposes? In part, you already answered that question, but I still want to clarify, because you also mentioned the exceptions. Is this exception covered by a regulation or an agreement? This religious part is quite subtle. I want to specify where this regulation is and who will handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U13	Thank you, good questioner! When I answered here before, I said, under what conditions a religious association in Estonia could kill an agricultural animal for religious purposes. It is governed by § 1 (10) of the draft law. The Religious Community must apply for authorisation from the Veterinary and Food Administration. The slaughter must take place in a slaughterhouse and be necessary for members of a religious association. I was reminded in the debate at the committee that information on the number of members of these religious associations is available at the Ministry of the Interior. Of course, there must also be a monitoring officer at the time of this killing. The cooperation between the Food and Veterinary Office and the Ministry of the Interior must show how many animals are allowed to be slaughtered. But if there is any further need to improve regulation, the Minister will probably do so with his regulations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U14	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U15	Thank you. I see a lot of terminological inaccuracies here. First of all, human, which means "human." So this is humane killing. I think the only human aspect is that a person wants to eat a pig. The jugular vein is in Latin vena jugularis and in Estonian the jugular vein. Karotiidarter is an arterial carotis in Latin and a sleeper in Estonian. This is not one language or another. You have a legal final list of ducks and rabbits, and that concludes, but for example, there's no nutria in it. I'm sure there aren't any animals left. Lawyers generally refuse to make such final lists. Lawyers here have looked at veterinary terminology and linguistics. This bill should be withdrawn. What happens if you take him back?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U16	Thank you, my good colleague. All colleagues and political groups had the opportunity to table amendments, as well as linguistic and descriptive proposals. However, no amendments were received from colleagues or political groups. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, we really tried, out of the wisdom of our members and officials, to correct the bill that came from the government. It was also a matter of crying. When we added a rabbit to that list, my colleague, Meelis Mälberg, asked about the nutria and said that he remembers exactly how nutria farms used to be. We've all probably eaten nutria meat. The official of the Ministry replied that this list was final and that there are currently no nutria farms in Estonia where these killings are necessary, either to him or to the Ministry. But that question could really come up. When it comes to word usage and whether it is terminologically accurate or not, we have tried to correct one place with Amendment 2. The bill that came from the Ministry said "good killing and execution practices." When we as ordinary people hear this expression in Estonian, it really scratches in the ear. We wished whoever read the bill wouldn't laugh or be worried about how it could be written in the law. We rephrased this particular place more humanely. Now it says 'good practice of killing and execution'. We would certainly have been happy how linguistic and rewording proposals would have come by the deadline for tabling amendments, but today it is those proposals that are on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U17	Please, Mr Kalla, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Unfortunately, I did not find out about the answer to the previous question, which is scientifically proven humane slaughter. But since during this debate, the word 'killing' in the Chamber of Riigikogu has sounded more than a whole year or more, I ask what proposals were made to the Committee on Rural Affairs by the Estonian Society for Animal Farmers and how many of these proposals were taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U19	Thank you. I sincerely apologise for not giving a good answer to this question that you have asked me right away. I will try to correct this mistake during the break and, good Kalev, to explain it to you in more detail. But if you come to the Association of Estonian Breeders, you have to say that they were the only social partners who turned to the Riigikogu. Their ideas were taken into account in the amendment and are set out in the explanatory memorandum. Namely, the Estonian Association of Breeders proposed to clarify the disclosure of breeding animal data in the Farm Animal Breeding Act. That's what the Commission did. It was provided that the breed society would publish on its website at least the pedigree data of the male animals entered in the breeding book. Of course, both male and female parentage data could be included, but since there are quite a number of animals and the identity of the person to whom the animal belongs must also be placed on the website, it is reasonable that data on the basis of the protection of personal data should only include data on the parentage of the male animal. We took full account of their proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U20	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U21	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Can you recall the overview given by the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture of the proposals of the Estonian Animal Welfare Association, which the Ministry of Agriculture thought of these proposals and how the representative commented on them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U22	I'm trying to find it on my papers. Really, these proposals were there, but I can't find them fast here right now. If I have a chance to answer a few more questions later, and if I find out, I'll answer, good Esther, your question as well. I'm sorry I can't answer that right now!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U23	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, About a dozen years ago, I went to England with representatives of Estonian municipalities and we shared our experiences with each other there. In a small town near Birmingham, we were shown a brand new police station, the most modern in England. There we asked what the worst day of these people's lives had been. There was an answer in the skin and skin. Those three days had been the worst. They had a lab near the city where animals were tested, but on a nice day, about 200 Greenpeace activists came along and beat everything up and the animals were freed. It took one day to disperse these breakers, another day to find the workers, and the third day to get the animals together. Hence my question: are there any establishments in Estonia where tests on experimental animals are regularly carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U25	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. Indeed, speaking more broadly, this bill seeks to strike a balance between animal protection and these exceptions, which are animal testing and killing without stunning for religious purposes. Of course, with this bill, both animal conservationists and religious organisations and research organisations have tried to find a balance. You asked what such institutions are in Estonia. If I recall the discussion in the committee, I can say that, as far as I know, this activity is science-based and these trials are conducted at universities. I don't know about places other than college, but I may not have a complete overview of the subject. Two universities are doing it, there shouldn't be any more institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U26	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U27	Thank you. Madam Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. A few questions ago were raised about which stakeholders have proposed amendments to this law. You mentioned that there were no proposals other than those of the breeders' cooperative. But there are many other institutions that should be affected by this law. I immediately remember Tallinn Zoo, for example, where there are some carnivorous animals. They must be provided with live feed, and it is also likely to be covered by the Animal Protection Act. Is everything the same for the zoo? What limitations does this law place on zoos?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U28	Thank you. I'm talking in the context of this bill. By the deadline for submitting the amendments, we received an amendment only from the Estonian Breeders' Cooperatives. The bill changes the subject matter of animals used in science, or experimental animals, as well as animals killed for religious purposes. During the preparation of the draft proposal, the social partners were asked for opinions. It has to be said that although the zoo is certainly strongly linked to animal protection, the zoo was not part of this coordination circle, as far as I know. The Ministry of Agriculture held a round table on 24 August, before bringing this bill into this hall, where representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Estonian Jewish Congregation, the Estonian Islamic Congregation, the Estonian Society for Animal Welfare, the Estonian Society for Animal Welfare and the House of Taaraus and Ruralities discussed the need to kill animals without stunning them beforehand. Of course, all these social partners also expressed their wishes and explained their concerns about this draft law. For example, the Estonian Jewish Congregation and the Estonian Islamic Congregation reported that they agreed with the wording of the regulation on the religious slaughter of animals, which had been sent to them and which had been completed in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. They agreed to what it said. The Estonian Society for Animal Protection and the Estonian Society for Animal Protection did not agree with the regulation, but rather sought to ban the slaughter of unsedated animals. The discussion was just about this bill. The zoo was not involved in this discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U29	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! As is well known, the Estonian Animal Protection Association has taken the view that a Member State may impose stricter national requirements for religious executions under the Council of Europe Regulation. How has Estonia behaved in this situation and is this opportunity used in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U31	Yes, my good colleague, this was also mentioned in the Commission on other issues. We in the Commission were thinking about what is meant by these stricter national requirements. After all, the Council regulation does not lay down the requirements for religious execution, but, because of certain religious rituals, allows the use of special forms of slaughter, provided that the slaughter takes place in a slaughterhouse, i.e. on the terms of a "hobat'. Normally, killing takes place for a certain number of seconds after stunning, but killing an animal for religious purposes doesn't have to stun it first. What are the more stringent requirements, should we still stun or should killing take place a little earlier after stunning? What are the stricter conditions? There was no coherent idea in the Commission that these stricter requirements should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U32	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! At times, the text of the bill is very difficult to understand, and a person probably does not know how to act. How can we understand the requirement of freedom of movement set out in the law? The law states that an agricultural poultry, rabbit and rabbit killed outside the slaughterhouse for their own use must be stunned before slaughter and, if necessary, restricted before stunning. What do you mean you need to be limited? What's supposed to happen there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U34	Good colleague! It's hard to read the law sometimes. The Commission has discussed what it means to restrict the movement of an animal. We talked about it and explained different situations. Many members of the Commission had either witnessed the killing of small animals in their homes or with acquaintances or had done so themselves. It was discussed what is meant by stunning when birds, rabbits and rabbits are killed in domestic conditions. A variety of methods are used to stun poultry, rabbits and rabbits: up to five kilograms of heavy blow to the head and stretching and twisting the neck to break the blood supply. You have to make sure that the animal doesn't move after that so-called drugged kill. In the Commission, we were not very clear about this. We try to sign up for something in the law, wish you well, but sometimes it's really hard to follow in normal life. Earthlings who have killed chicken for soup know exactly that if the moment of stunning and killing is the same, then the chicken will still fly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U35	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The draft law concerns both the protection and killing of experimental animals and the killing of farmed animals. The question is this: is there a difference between the requirements for the slaughter of experimental animals and farm animals? Does this law refer to these differences?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U37	Good colleague! As I understand it, you asked whether there was a difference between the slaughter requirements for animals used in animal testing and those for farm animals. Of course, the general principles of killing these animals, or rather, execution, are the same. In the execution of an animal, the choice must be made of a method which minimises physical and mental suffering for the animal. Of course, the method of execution also depends on whether or not the meat will be used for food in the future. But most importantly, at the time of the execution, the animal would suffer as little as possible. This applies both to the killing or slaughter of experimental animals and farmed animals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U38	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, First of all, thank you for your answers! Never thought the discussion on animal welfare law would be so interesting! However, I have a general question, which is not directly related to the law. For example, we understand the religious circumstances that have been put in here. Let us assume, however, that the demographic situation will change, and sooner or later we will have people from the Caribbean islands coming here as elsewhere in Europe. With them comes the voodoo cult and then other circumstances arise. Are we always going to change the law? Similarly, the family law could provide for a man to marry four women at once, for example, for religious purposes. Where's the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U40	Good questioner! At the beginning of my report, I said that there was no consensus in the Commission as to whether this law should be adopted at third reading. There were abstentions, and there were also votes against. The reason came out of the Commission's discussion. Some members of the Commission expressed the opinion that if one person or another comes to live in Estonia, where there are certain historical traditions, he could act on the basis of our rules why we have to make exceptions. Sweden, for example, does not grant this exception. However, we have found a compromise between animal protection and religious, religious, or desire in this law. I mean, the kind of stuff that you've shown us, we wouldn't even imagine today. One more thing. It was asked at first reading. In an exceptional way, an animal can only be killed for religious purposes for the purpose of a community living in Estonia. These are the people who already live here. We can't do this for export, we can't sell that meat out of the country. This draft law is a very big compromise in this area and has called for many negotiations. As for the example you gave, I sincerely hope, being a Christian and a member of the Rõuge congregation, that we will never have to discuss it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U41	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Listening to this interesting and detailed debate, I have come up with a question that would be more humane, either to kill the chicken before or after laying. However, since this has not been dealt with directly in the draft, I ask how much training costs the draft provides for animal killers working in the meat industry and whether these costs should be borne by the company or the worker.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U43	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U44	Thank you. I tried to answer that question before. This law does not lay down the amount of training costs. In addition, we do not yet know exactly where this training will come from. I told you before that people working in the meat industry can only be trained at Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. It is currently difficult to estimate the level of these costs. This law does not regulate who should pay for this training, whether an entrepreneur or an employee. We can't regulate everything by law. It is for future workers in particular that this training is needed. If the entrepreneur considers these people necessary for the company, he will certainly find money for the training. If these people are needed on the labour market, the unemployment fund also organises training. This will all become clear over time. The Commission was also talking about how much this could cost businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U45	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress, sincere thanks for your very thorough answers! Everyone who has followed the Riigikogu debate has certainly gained much wisdom on this subject. Whenever it comes to animal welfare, it is also the concern of fellow citizens who have friendly relations with farmers or farmers, for example, of whether schools can become nice meat from a nearby farm. Would you point out how and under what conditions it is appropriate under this law to execute farm animals in domestic conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U46	Good questioner! This draft law does not deal with much of this, although the Law on the Protection of Animals does, of course, deal with it. For their own use, this law, and already under the conditions laid down in the Council of Europe Regulation, can kill animals on their farms both today and in the future. However, in the case of sales, there is another regulation and other requirements. Rabbits or pigs can only be slaughtered at home for their own use; this meat must not be sold for food at the next school. But this issue is not covered by this bill that we have here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U47	Please, Mr Mailis Reps, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U48	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! The question of the social partners may be suitable for a summary question. Before you answered a few questions here, you said that you wouldn't find the right pages and you would add them later. I'm giving you this chance. The answer time is not limited. Take stock of the proposals made by the social partners, which still remained to be scribbled, which I would have liked to take into account and what the relationship with the social partners was in preparation for the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U49	Thank you for a very good question. Before we started preparing the second reading, there was a hearing in the Commission. The representatives of the Estonian Sheep Farmers' Society arrived, who were very surprised. They said they didn't even know what would happen in the future if they were allowed to kill animals at home for their own use. They didn't know much about the topic. We turned to the Ministry of Agriculture after that. The Ministry of Agriculture has always discussed the matter with the social partners and this draft law was also discussed. However, this gives rise to a greater question concerning the coordination of draft laws submitted by Parliament and the Government. A large package, as Tarmo Tamm said earlier, is being sent to the interest groups, a hard-to-read text that a normal sheep farmer may not be able to bite through. It is difficult for him to understand what one thing or another means, and then this bill will be co-ordinated perhaps lightly, precisely without understanding what it means. Here, I think, all the committees and all the legislators need to take a very big step forward. When we ask for opinions from the social partners, we do not have to do this simply because we are asking, but because we are also waiting for substantive feedback. The question must take place in the so-called rural language, not in the legal language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U50	Thank you very much, Mr Kalvi Tough. Everyone has now learned how to humanely kill animals. Let's start the negotiations. Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U51	I get it. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U52	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It's a long story. I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U53	Ladies and gentlemen, There are laws that come as lightly and joyfully, and there are those that occur in pain and distress. This law is born about the way calves are born. I don't know if anyone's seen it. It's quite a comic sight. He's born, feet ahead. I suppose the name of this law is like a calf born in front of its feet. I'm not going to read it exactly, but for example, the expression 'law' is mentioned three times in that name. A long-made beauty. You can change the law three times, it makes you feel pretty sure that the fourth and fifth times can be changed, and you can finally put some nutria or somebody else or something to eat in it. If you look at the terminology used in the law, I'm sorry, but I got the feeling that the veterinary terms have been handled by a pretty good lawyer, the legal part has been written by a good philologist, but the linguistic proofreading has been done by an asshole doctor. That's not a bad word for a motherfucker. Son of a bitch is a creature that people grow to enrich their food tables. The Estonian has always, by the way, respected the bastard. So, as the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs kindly explained: we looked at the committee and put together the draft. What did he say? 'Sorry you weren't there. 'But I was where I belong. I don't belong in the Committee on Rural Affairs. There, however, specialists should have reviewed what is what, how, what and in what order. But, of course, when the good people put together this bill, they didn't know that they were going to raise the electric excise and that we were going to pick on all the other laws, too, about how someone was going to be killed and whether his rights would be understood. Where did this law come from, anyway? You know, his roots come from a time when we volunteered to enslave the European Union with our backs straight, our heads up and our pride. From there began to come the benevolent recommendations, then came the fingertips and then the directives. They were said: 'These directives are recommended, but if you do not implement them, then, oh, we will show you. ' Here comes the demands that a cow shouldn't be kept, but if you have a cow, you can't drink his milk because you have to have the appropriate pipes and cooling equipment, I don't know what kind of stuff and stuff. But the milk of a single cow is, of course, so greasy that it kills a European. He wants to get such milk, which is much thinner than the dishwashing water of a good Estonian farmer. Cows are what they are. In the meantime, they didn't show up at all, and now they're starting to start slowly. But there are other animals. The wolf is a useful animal now because there are few wolves in Europe. Apparently, everyone's got radios sewn on, and then they're trying to protect them in every way. The wolf can't be harassed or vexed. In general, he should not be called a wolf because it obviously depreciates him, just as people living on the African continent must not be called the right name. The wolf must also be called a forest caller, but not a wolf. Now the birds. A few years ago, there was a story in the papers about a good master raising a goose for Christmas. It's close to Christmas, I need a goose steak, but how do you attack a big bird with your bare hands? Then he took a shotgun off the wall and shot the goose's head off without warning. After that, the man was punished in such a way that he now only raises snails. A snail is a good animal from God, doesn't talk, doesn't talk, doesn't squeak, doesn't do anything bad, eats a snail leaf, but look how greasy he is, because he moves slowly. That's where we're going: cows are eaten, and pigs are, as they are, wolves eat the last sheep, and then we start keeping camels. By the way, no directive applies to camels. The camel is a good creature forever, which, by the way, gives much stronger milk than a cow. The camel is warm, the camel eats junipers and old car tires. God's cheap. Why not? If we want to bring all our land into compliance with the euro standards, then it is the way that you will go from Abja-Paluoja to Kohtla-Nõmme and see how beautiful Estonia is. Wolves howl in the woods, camels eat in the fields, then you see a single farm with a croc in chains. You can't keep a dog in a chain, you know, he takes a slipper into the woods and eats it. Sheep eaten and wolves swelled, that's how we live. How humane do you have to be with a pig? If God created a pig, then God created a pig to eat that pig. When Darwin was bred by a pig, Darwin must have bred a pig to be eaten by a man. It's the destiny of a pig. Nature has determined it. If there were a little more sense, he'd probably understand it, and he'd have accepted it over the millennia. If we're saying that there are rights, if we're talking about the ritual killing of animals according to the requirements of one religion or another, then the animal should also ask the animal whether it accepts the religion for which it is killed, maybe the bastard or the beast is a completely different religion. We're saying we can't bully one animal or another. We stuck with the mole. I didn't really understand if I could kill them with a malaka, a shovel, or just poison. But listen, there's also a living creature and a cockroach. The cockroach has six feet, we only have two. The cockroach doesn't bite anyone, he's lived a million years before us, and he lives a million years after us. He's not gonna hurt us, he's not gonna call us names because we're different, but we're gonna trample him, his wife and his kids with our feet. While we're talking about some animals, we're talking about others. In general, however, the Government of the Republic does exactly the same with the Estonian people. He's skinning seven of us, screwing electric excises on the ceiling, not reading us our rights, not apologizing to us. But we keep paying and nobody asks, is it humane, is it animated, whether we like it or not. It looks like it's meant to be God or Darwin's invented it. But electric excise is not what we accept and protest, taking care of the slaughter of pigs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U54	Thank you. Please, let's stick to the bill we're dealing with! Please, colleague Heimar Lenk! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U55	Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite difficult to come here after such big wordmakers, but I must say, for the sake of justice, that there was no mention of cockroaches, camels or forest callings in this draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals. The law itself is very serious and I think he came to the Riigikogu at the right time for discussion. As the rapporteur has already said, on the one hand, some European Union directives provide for the introduction of this law, on the other hand, life itself, our daily lives, when we try to remain as humane or humane as possible, thinking being. Since animal protection is very well regulated in many countries, we are trying to keep up with these countries and live by this law. If you read the bill thoroughly and draw conclusions from it, you can see one thing here: we should therefore combine the welfare and rights of animals and the vital desires and passions of man. In other words, the animal and its suffering go into the so-called association with the human need and habit of eating flesh. This law has sought to bring these things together in such a way that the solution is as acceptable as possible to all parties involved. I don't know how acceptable an animal, of course, is to send it out of life, but at least you have to try to make it as human as possible. I think the content of this bill is very good. Unfortunately, its details and terms are not so pleasant to report, nor are they very pleasant to listen to. The voices in the hall already sounded like they didn't believe how interesting an animal protection law could be. But it really is. Nor would this law have been discussed so thoroughly in this Chamber if it hadn't come up with the way somebody said it, a goddamn electric excise. Due to this too high electrical excise duty, which the government parties do not want to let down in any way, this bill, with its heavy terms and rather appalling details, is also before us today. We all eat meat, at least most of us. There is also movement in the interests of those who try not to eat meat, but most of us eat meat. Now the bill has sought humanity in order to send animals out of life as humanely as possible and bring them to the table. Perhaps you noticed that there is even personal data for pigs here, these are almost sensitive personal data that we may not even have to disclose. I wanted to clarify one term. In the meantime, I consulted with our advisor, Ülle. There was a question about the difference between killing and execution. There really is a difference. Killing is sending an animal out of life when a person does so in the interests of his meal table and kills just as many animals as he needs to eat. Whoever remembers the bizarre stories of childhood knows that hunters and Indians there, or redskins, always tried to kill just as many animals as they needed to eat, but no way more. Execution is an action when it is simply necessary to get rid of animals, either when disease or epidemics have arisen or when there is any other need for the animal to cease to exist. When I was in the committee discussing this draft law, I felt that the social partners, who went there and expressed their wishes, were more or less satisfied. Animalists did not protest very much, and they agreed that this was a rather humane bill. One paragraph emphasizes that if an animal is to be captured alive, it should be done in such a way as not to cause pain, physical and mental suffering, permanent damage, or any such. In the case of slaughter, the animal must have as little pain and suffering as possible, including psychologically. It has already been said that there is a separate chapter, 'Killing a farm animal for religious purposes'. I am pleased that it is so legalised in Estonia today that it will not be able to do too much of this arbitrarily in the future. The rules are set. Still, they try to electrocute farm animals before they go to the table of this religious community. At the very least, if a religious sect says that it really can't eat meat from slaughtered animals like this, the difference between slaughtering an animal and stunning is kept as small as possible. I asked the chairman of the committee whether the Estonian people had such practices. I asked for it on purpose because I'd looked at some folklore on the Internet before. It turns out that our forefathers also had these customs that, before the slaughter of a pig or another animal, either the previous day was prayed or some kind of rural religious custom was done, so as to ask forgiveness or so simply to say goodbye to an animal raised in their home. It turns out that this religious killing does not only occur in several other religions, but Estonians also have these practices. It seems to me that the bill has more or less succeeded, although, I repeat, it is difficult to read. But life isn't hard on itself. The same sweet little pig in Estonia that is being killed for Christmas is a pity for the family and often tears are shed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U56	Thank you. Ester Tuiksoo, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speakers have already given an emotional and very constructive overview of this bill. I will try not to repeat them and make some clarifications, because perhaps because of fatigue, there is one thing or another that has not been said. The initiators of the draft law have added a number of improvements to the existing law. One very important area to be modified by this bill is all about the protection, use and execution of experimental animals. It is essential to deal with this law. I will also complement the chairman of the committee here: indeed, if this law enters into force, it will be possible to execute small animals living in home gardens. One important part of the draft law is the authorisation and conditions for the slaughter of animals for their own use and religious purposes. An important concept such as "sniffing an animal" has also been stopped. Of course, there are also requirements for the person who kills animals. True, what these skills really mean is not specified. This was discussed in the Commission, but it was not possible to define whether the execution experience should be one-off, triple or more. One area which the Commission may have dealt with superficially was the views of the Estonian Animal Protection Association. The Ministry of Agriculture said that they have found a common language with all the social partners, but I have at my disposal the materials of the Estonian Animal Protection Association. Unfortunately, they are not quite satisfied with this approach. They're looking at the situation for quite a while. The Estonian Animal Protection Association is not satisfied with the regulation of the religious execution of farm animals in this bill. The representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture did not give us a very precise overview of this in the Commission either. The position of the Animal Protection Union on the proposed changes to religious slaughter, where the animal is allowed to be slaughtered without stunning, is described in more detail in these materials. In particular, both the current law and the proposed amendment allow the animal to be stunned immediately after a lethal paragraph has been made. However, according to the explanatory statement attached to the amendment, the animal does not need to be drugged immediately after the cut. The speed with which the animal is stunned after the cut is made depends on the religious tradition of the religious community. According to information provided by the Animal Protection Association, Dutch practice shows that this period should not exceed 40 seconds. EU legislation does say that Member States have the right to impose stricter requirements on the religious execution of animals. I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U58	The Estonian Animal Protection Association supports the right to freedom of religion, but the provisions governing animal welfare should apply exclusively to everyone, and there is no justification for not guaranteeing animal welfare and causing suffering, i.e. granting an exemption for religious reasons. The Animal Protection Union therefore supports a ban on the execution of animals for religious purposes or, at least, a ban on the stunning execution of animals. They have the following arguments. According to the latest scientific data, an animal killed without previous stunning may retain consciousness for up to five minutes and therefore suffer pain, mental and physical suffering. The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia permit restrictions on religious freedom if this is necessary for the protection of public morality, among other things. A Member State may itself impose stricter national requirements for religious executions. In a number of countries, such as Iceland, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, New Zealand (except chickens), it is prohibited to execute animals for religious purposes or without stunning. In addition, Switzerland is also considering importing kosher meat. In Estonia, the Jewish and Islamic communities make up only 0.1% of the population. In countries where religious killing is prohibited, the Jewish and Islamic communities make up much more of the population than in Estonia. I tried to give you an overview of what Estonia's Animal Protection Union sent us. The draft law states that the special methods of slaughtering an agricultural animal for religious purposes, the more precise content and format of the application for authorisation of slaughter for religious purposes and the requirements and procedures for carrying out the slaughter for religious purposes shall be laid down by regulation of the Minister of Agriculture. So the Ministry of Agriculture has left the ends open here. Then we shouldn't talk about all of this here for so long if there was a chance that, from the new year's time, coalition would lower the electric excise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U59	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U60	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U61	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu in the hall and in front of televisions! So what are we discussing here on 22 November? Let me remind you that we are talking about the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and the related amendment of other laws 288. Speaking about animal protection, important points were raised by both the chairman and previous speakers of the Commission, the last one by Esther Tuiksoo, who brought comparisons with other countries on the issues that may have been most concerned with animal protection and forced them to address us by letter. They point out that Estonia is not a very animal-protection-centred country in the European Union, but rather a country that emphasizes religious freedom. At least in the written address of the animalguards, it is very clear that they consider that the discretion may not have been sufficiently analysed. So, in addition to this important topic, which we have discussed quite thoroughly here, some members of the Riigikogu have become aware of the background of the appeal of animal protectionists and maybe they will pay more attention to some of the social partners' letters in the future. The background to our in-depth debate is also that the coalition is not really ready to engage in dialogue on serious issues at the moment. This serious issue in the context of animal protection is still the price of electricity rising from 1 January, to which the coalition has not offered any credible solution, despite the fact that almost two thirds of the price of electricity is in the hands of us, the Riigikogu and certainly also the Government of the Republic. It's a state company, it's tax. The Centre Party has repeatedly provided a very important solution: to bring electricity excise duty to the level that the European Union promises, or to the minimum level. This would provide an opportunity to make the very high price increase from 1 January a little more humane for the most sensitive target groups. The long debate on the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals is driven by the concerns of animal conservationists, certainly also by the problems of farm animal breeders, which the chairman of the Commission repeatedly highlighted. But it is equally motivated by the way we look at those people on 1 January whose daily activities are getting so distracted by the price increase that it is actually very difficult for them to make ends meet. Our absolute poverty and also relative poverty numbers, around which the Prime Minister has an interesting game from time to time, show this Estonia, which is why we should all be concerned here in the Riigikogu, whether we are sitting on the left, on the right or in the middle. As a result, the Centre Party Group points out once again that it is possible to reduce electricity excise duty to a minimum level. We have repeatedly introduced this bill. Today, too, at the time of the referral of inquiries and drafts, we stressed this possibility once again. So it is not possible for the members of the coalition to go to the media, saying that they have not understood exactly what the Group of the Centre Party has set for these long discussions. Moreover, we have also put forward our proposals on how the situation can be alleviated. As a result, and with respect for animal conservation and animal breeders, the draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals has been quite thoroughly analysed today, 22 November. This will certainly be done for at least an hour, giving the members of the coalition the opportunity once again to think about what the increase in electricity prices really means for the same animalists, livestock breeders, farmers, farmers and any family that has to match their costs and incomes. This certainly concerns the social partners who came to the Riigikogu with their proposals on this draft. After all, many religious groups also deal with people's daily concerns. For example, their proposals on the religious slaughter of animals are motivated by their fellow believers' concern that one or the other law will interfere with their daily activities and rituals. They, too, are certainly very much affected by future price increases, because, unfortunately, the price of electricity will not only affect our electricity bill, but it will affect all our subsequent steps through inflation. Apart from the absence of a fundamental dialogue, there is no real reason against a reduction in excise duty. Rather, in the case of one or another minister or coalition partner, this is a foolish misunderstanding. I hope, however, that in the next few hours and days, before the third reading of the state budget, there will be an understanding that lowering excise duty and reducing price increases are the least that the Riigikogu can offer. Therefore, on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group, I will hand over the draft 288 to interrupt the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U62	Please, from the floor in the round of negotiations, Aadu Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U63	Good manager! I would just like to add, in line with the reply, that the draft law that is being processed is neither too new nor unprecedented for Estonian farmers in the historical sense. Just before the first world war, so roughly a hundred years ago, Estonian villages were in about the same condition as now when animals were slaughtered. In fact, the state intervened in the methods of killing animals with its strict regulations at that time. The big problem was that harsh rules were also imposed on local slaughterhouses to frustrate the village butchers. They used to kill a pig in the open, but the village butcher couldn't do anything like that anymore. Even an official project had to be submitted about the village house, showing all the details, including the grenades and other dark blood drains. The projects had to be approved in the construction department of the provincial government. They've been kept in the archives so far, along with nice pictures of color. The problem was the same as today. Small-scale producers were subject to just as stringent requirements as large-scale producers. In summary, this means that the draft law under discussion is probably not ahead of its time, but is perhaps, in some ways, a continuation of developments that took place a hundred years ago. This is certainly the way he deserves to be discussed and also to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U64	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 288 amendments to the draft. Five amendments have been received, all are from the lead committee and all have been fully taken into account. The first amendment. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U65	Mr President, I would like to vote on this amendment, and before that I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U66	Thank you! I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U67	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. For 49 members of the Riigikogu, there is no one against. The proposal was supported. Let us move to the second amendment. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U68	I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U69	Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to vote on the second amendment and, before the vote, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U70	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Centre Party Group has ended. We are on to the second amendment. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2. Please take a stand and vote. I interrupt the vote. A procedural question. Please give me a microphone for Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U71	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 48 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the lead committee. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U72	Thank you. I would ask the chairman of the meeting to inform us who has tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U73	Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, please vote on the third amendment and I would like a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U74	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U75	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on the third amendment. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Dear colleagues, I will take the chairman's break for 15 minutes because the Board of the Riigikogu wishes to meet. The hearing will be resumed in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U76	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. We are on the fourth amendment. I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Good fellows, I'll take the manager's break again, this time for 20 minutes. The trial will be resumed in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U77	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. I'm sorry it got longer! The reason was that there was a meeting of the Riigikogu Board. I shall withdraw from the draft to be dealt with for a moment and go to the meeting of the Riigikogu Board. According to § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the President of the Riigikogu, Isamaa and Res Publica, will convene additional sittings of the Riigikogu in the Chamber of Toompea Castle on a proposal from the Group of the Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The first additional meeting will be held at 4.15 p.m. on 22 November. The session will run until the agenda is exhausted on 23 November, but no longer than 10 a.m. If not all the drafts on the agenda of the first additional sitting can be discussed, the second additional meeting will take place on 23 November from 13 a.m. until the agenda is exhausted. All the drafts that were not discussed at the first additional meeting are on the agenda. The Board of the Riigikogu discussed this, but there was no consensus here. This means that this House must vote on whether or not these proposals are supported. A procedural question, Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U78	Thank you. I have a procedural question. The reputation of the Riigikogu is low because there is a road roller policy here and there is no other opinion. I see that this road roll policy has begun to become fatal to parliamentary democracy. Our Rules of Procedure state that the President of the Riigikogu, the esteemed Ene Ergma, will report an extraordinary session through the media at least three days before the additional session takes place. It's November 22nd, it's 12:30, and in three hours, they're calling an emergency meeting. I know that a compelling reason is nothing more than that some members of the Reform Party and the IRL wish to go on holiday during the week off. This is not a sufficient reason for Parliament to break the Rules of Procedure. The Government Coalition has no 51 votes next week to push its decisions through, which is why the Riigikogu's domestic and operational procedures are being violated. This is not appropriate for parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U79	Good questioner, your time is up! I'm trying to answer the questions you asked. First of all, Paragraph 49 (3) of our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act really provides what you read out that a further hearing must be announced at least three days in advance. In the case of weight reasons, the period of notice may be shorter. The Bureau discussed the compelling reasons for having a notice period of less than three days. When considering these compelling reasons, the majority of the Bureau considered that, since we have not been able to deal with a large number of draft laws relating to the state budget, which must be adopted by a certain deadline, an additional sitting must be held more quickly than is prescribed by the Home and Working Procedures Act. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U80	Thank you. I have a question for the majority of the Bureau: what are the compelling reasons that force us to violate the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and to hold an additional sitting today, not on Monday, in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U81	Due to our rules of procedure, there is no way I can ask the majority of the Riigikogu Board who thought so in front of this hall. The sitting of the Riigikogu is chaired by one person who represents the Executive Board. Right now, it's me. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Am I to understand that, in fact, the reason for this is that the Central Party Group has decided today to travel on a fun trip and that they do not want to carry on with their daily work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U83	The Board of the Riigikogu did not discuss it or consider it to be a valid reason. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U84	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu has published a great yellow book. This is an executive edition of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. It says this: '... the period of notice may also be shorter than three days, but only if there are compelling reasons. The expression 'big reasons' indicates that the questions that the Riigikogu must discuss and decide are urgent and that compliance with the three-day notice period can have serious consequences. ' So the hearing can be convened in more than three days. Did the board discuss what were these serious consequences...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U85	I'm asking you to return the microphone to Priit Toobal! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U86	...two board members say? I understand that you, as a member of the board, were not in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U87	Thank you for this procedural question. I have not said how the voices were divided, and it does not really matter now. We discussed compelling reasons and found these reasons to be related to the work schedule. It can be seen that the draft legislation, which relates in particular to the state budget for next year, will not be processed unless we have further sessions more quickly. That was the majority opinion. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, three weeks ago, the Centre Party Group agreed on a number of popular meetings this evening in the municipalities of Lääne-Virumaa. There is no doubt that if the majority of the Riigikogu currently violates domestic and operational procedures, we will cancel these meetings with the voters, because the fight to stop the rise in the price of electricity is more important to us. At the same time, I appeal to the members of the coalition that this is why the Riigikogu is disappointed that the Riigikogu itself does not comply with the law. This decision, however, violates the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U89	Thank you. I only comment so much that, since the Bureau did not find agreement here, the vote of the Riigikogu must show whether or not additional sessions are held. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U90	Thank you, Mr President. It's kind of awkward. There are three politicians on the board who are not there for the very first day. My first question is very simple. I hope that makes sense in every way. What prevented the Bureau from announcing on Monday that a possible additional meeting would be held at 4 p.m. on Thursday if a number of items were not passed on the weekly agenda? I didn't find that very difficult to predict. The members of the Management Board could have come to this opinion in their dealings with each other. Wasn't there a question up on Monday that the board could make such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U91	Thank you. On Monday, there was no question that if agenda items could not be dealt with at one o'clock (or two o'clock if the regular sitting was extended), an additional meeting could take place on Thursday evening or Friday. This debate was not there. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U92	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I will continue to ask about § 49 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 (2) states that the decision to hold an additional sitting will be taken and its agenda will be prepared by the Management Board of the Riigikogu. Can you tell us today, before the hearing takes place, what the agenda is? Who are the waitresses on the agenda? We would then know whether or not the vote would support the convening of this sitting. I would like to know the agenda, the waitresses and the theme circle.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U93	Thank you. The Bureau also discussed the agenda for the first additional sitting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. As I have read, if these items cannot be dealt with, they will be postponed to another supplementary sitting. A total of 19 items will appear at the first additional session. If the Riigikogu plenary decides that an additional session will take place, the agenda will be allocated to the tables of the members of the Riigikogu in an accelerated manner. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U94	Thank you. Since the Rules of Procedure Act is not devoid of meaning, which should be taken into account by this compelling reason, I would like to ask directly: does the Bureau believe that this can be done by holding the staggering tactics of the Centre Party Group within the last two working days?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U95	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu did not discuss these issues for a compelling reason. Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U96	Thank you! The conduct of an additional sitting is regulated by § 49 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the last sentence of which states that if there are compelling reasons, the notice period may be shorter. What are these compelling reasons is the discretion of the Board of the Riigikogu. The Governing Board shall decide on compelling reasons. Therefore, this is not an infringement, as is claimed here. The law gives a clear rule that this is decided by the Riigikogu Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U97	Thank you. I said out in front of the hall, which was the main compelling reason why a hearing should be held faster than in three days' time. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Was it not under discussion in the Bureau that there might be a compelling reason why the Bundeswehr had taken some kind of decision? I remember that while the ESM issue was under discussion, the President of the Riigikogu, Ene Ergma, considered the reason why the Bundeswehr had taken a decision on the ESM issue to be important. Do you maybe have this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U99	Thank you. It has not been under discussion. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U100	Thank you, good manager. I'm thinking about my shit, being a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As we know, there is an advantage of the coalition on the Board of the Riigikogu. Suppose there is some particularly cumbersome issue that is being dealt with quickly. Knowing that there are 5 to 6 members of the opposition on the move, this proposal may come out, get rid of the troublesome questioners and carry out this procedure. I ask: is this appropriate for a democratic country?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U101	Thank you. As I have already said, we did not reach consensus and this issue must be decided by the Riigikogu plenary. It is appropriate for a democratic country and it is enshrined in our Home and Working Procedures Act. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U102	Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's kind of ugly. There is, in fact, only one valid reason: there are more than others. This cannot be a substantial reason. Would the President not repeat to us the position of the members of the Bureau who claimed that there were sufficiently compelling reasons why not call an additional sitting at three days' notice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U103	Thank you. As I said, the main compelling reasons were those draft laws which have not been processed and which are very clearly linked to the budget for next year, its announcement and its entry into force. Those were compelling reasons. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U104	Thank you again, Honourable Vice-Chairman. I come again to § 49 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. I understand the idea of this lawyer in such a way that, in order to decide whether to be in favour of an additional sitting being convened, I should still know the content of the agenda. You said there were 19 items on the agenda. But which 19 items are scheduled for this meeting and who are the rapporteurs for these items? Without knowing it, a vigilante cannot make a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U105	Thank you. There are 19 items on the agenda: continuation of the second reading of draft 264; third reading of draft 268; third reading of draft 284; second reading of draft 307; second reading of draft 308; second reading of draft 282; second reading of draft 263; second reading of draft 280; second reading of draft 273; second reading of draft 279; second reading of draft 298; first reading of draft 310; first reading of draft 299; first reading of draft 311; first reading of draft 300; first reading of draft 318; first reading of draft 320; first reading of draft. Dear colleagues, I would now like to go to the vote on the Bureau's decision. One last procedural question, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U106	I'm interested in that kind of thing. Three hours will be announced, with drafts on the agenda, which must also be discussed by the ministers of the Government of the Republic. Has the Bureau been in contact with these ministers? Is it coordinated with them, or is some points actually being taken off the agenda? Implementation of the Rules of Procedure has been established not only for members of the Riigikogu to have certain rights against the road roll of the majority, but also for ministers of the Government of the Republic not to have to interrupt very important European affairs at 5:00 a.m. and come to do the work they could do on Monday.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U107	Thank you. I have not been in contact with these ministers, but officials and other members of the Riigikogu's board have been present. I understand the waitresses know about this hearing, they've been informed. Please, good fellows, let us go to the vote. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The same applies to the Commission's rapporteurs. A lot of waitresses may have just found out that they have to be ready for a report here in a few hours, but they may already have some other commitments. How can they fill them? The fact that the state needs a state budget for next year is not a compelling reason for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, understand that today is the only compelling reason that there are more than others. This cannot be a compelling reason under the Rules of Procedure. Are committees...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U109	Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall! We have agreed that one person will chair the hearing. Please give the microphone back to Eiki Nestor! He's got 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U110	I thank my colleague, Mr Gräzini, for his observations, which are always welcome. If you have a chance to say...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U111	Please ask me a question! There's five seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U112	My procedural question is as follows. Have a list of co-rapporteurs been agreed with the committees, who are going to report these drafts to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U113	Thank you. The Bureau was told that this had been agreed. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U114	Thank you. One important reason was that we will not be able to process drafts relating to the state budget in normal working order and during normal sessions. Perhaps the President of the sitting recalls the time when the budget must be adopted and what are the compelling reasons why the drafts cannot be dealt with in normal working procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U115	Thank you. I don't think that's a procedural question. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U116	Thank you very much. I had the exact same question, and I think it's a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U117	Got it. I have the exact same answer. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U118	Thank you. It now became clear that the reason for the extraordinary sitting was the state budget. Can it not happen in the future that the state budget will be submitted to the Riigikogu at the last minute and there will be no substantive discussion in the Riigikogu at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U119	Thank you. Well, time will tell. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U120	Thank you. That's my question. It has long been announced that today, from 4 to 6 p.m., a large round table will be held in our conference centre, of which very many members of the Riigikogu have promised to attend. We're gonna call a round table for the parties, but we're gonna have a meeting!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I vote on the decision of the Riigikogu Board... Eiki Nestor, would you like a break?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U122	No, I have a procedural question. What questions would be left on tomorrow's agenda, wouldn't you be more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U123	Yes, I am. The second additional sitting will be moved to the debate on all the issues that we cannot discuss at the first additional session, starting at 4:15 today and running until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 10 a.m. tomorrow. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I understand you're in a very uncomfortable situation. The meeting should be chaired by a member of the Governing Board who wishes to break the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure. I understand that you want to vote on both today and tomorrow's agenda. Despite the fact that in both cases this is a violation of the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, I would, however, like to know what points are on tomorrow's agenda, because, for example, the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have not been informed that, in the meantime, we have changed procedural decisions. That wasn't possible, because there was always a hearing. It was not possible for the Committee on Monetary Affairs to meet and formulate the decision in a different way. Perhaps the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs should take a break before taking a decision so that decisions can be regrouped and made so that it is seemingly correct, even though it is a violation of the rules of procedure and of the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U125	I have already answered this question in the context of the previous question. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U126	I'll continue with Eiki Nestor's question. I belong to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not met in the meantime to discuss the processing of the Public Information Act. Who is the waitress for this item? The Commission has decided that this issue will be discussed at a regular meeting on 22 November, but we have not decided that an additional session will be attended by Andrei Korobeinik.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U127	Thank you for this information. Dear colleagues, I have a great request to you that we begin the vote! Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U128	I'm asking for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-22_U129	Ten-minute break. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
