ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 48 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 53 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U2	Let's get to the questions. Since we have eight questions, I can afford a maximum of two questions registered on the spot. First of all, Mr Simson's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U3	Prime Minister! The health care strike will start on 1 October. The aim is to stop doctors and nurses from leaving Estonia and stop the health care system from falling apart. At the same time, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur has confirmed on several occasions that his health workers do not sit at one table. Medical staff have concluded from this that the Ministry of Social Affairs does not want to deal with these problems. Despite the fact that high-quality medical care seems to be one of the goals of the government union, at least that is the way it is written, the Minister of Social Affairs does not want or is unable to assume responsibility. And in a situation where the Estonian health care system is without a leader, I have the question, is it not time that the Head of Government took responsibility if the Minister of the field did not want to take it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U4	You have a very random interpretation of the Minister of Social Affairs. The Social Minister has never made any of the statements you referred to. Lately, he also meets doctors' representatives and negotiates almost every day. Your claim that the Minister of Social Affairs will not meet them and negotiate with them is not correct. However, the fact is that the Minister of Social Affairs or the Prime Minister or the Government of the Republic is not a partner for doctors in wage negotiations. The doctors' partner in this matter is the hospital's administration. They should negotiate with the hospital staff. Next, there is the Estonian Hospitals Association and then, if this level cannot be negotiated, then negotiations should be held with the Health Insurance Fund. Under no circumstances would anyone have to take the attitude that we were playing democracy, but now Kim Jong-il has to talk to himself, he will finally make decisions. No, no, no! If we have a public health insurance fund, that's how you take it. We need to negotiate properly with the social partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U6	Prime Minister Ansip! Because you have similarities with Kim Jong-il, I wouldn't have come. But when you look in the mirror, that's what you're thinking. However, my question is as follows. It is now clear that doctors, carers and nurses have not been offered anything to prevent the continued outflow of healthcare workers. There are no solutions on your side, and I understand from your first answer that you do not think that this is a government problem. At the same time, the Chairman of the Health Insurance Board is the same Minister for Social Affairs. The sickness fund's reserves were brought under the direct control of the government by a decision taken at the beginning of the year. What is your solution so that the strike does not begin on 1 October? This strike affects thousands of Estonian patients, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U7	I would very much like those who call for a strike to understand what is real in Estonian society and what is completely unrealistic. I would like to quote here the demands: the minimum wage for doctors is to be increased by 29% by 2013 compared to today and by 50% by 2014 compared to today. The social partners want to raise the minimum wage by 44% by 2013 and 67% by 2014 compared to today, 53% by 2013 for carers and 81% by 2014. In general medical care, the minimum wage increases in 2013 compared to the current service price would be 68% for doctors, 72% for nurses and 68% for care workers. Compared to today, by 2014 the minimum wage in general medical care would be as follows: 96% for doctors, 101% for nurses and 99% for care workers. I'm asking you, who's to take the money from? Should we cut pensions, cut teachers' salaries a little, or do rescue workers, policemen, pay big? Where should the double wage increase come from? The doctor's average salary is currently EUR 1704. In fact, not now, but last year it was EUR 1704. It is totally unrealistic to meet such demands! If anything comes, it will certainly come from the expense of the patients, either from their wallets or from their well-being. The chances of the Health Insurance Fund will be much higher next year than they are this year. The Health Insurance Fund has a budget increase of 55 million euros, with a 3% increase in salaries for doctors and a 6% increase in salaries for nurses.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! Your passion for the percentages is known. But the last percentage we heard was the price offer of Eesti Energia: the increase in electricity prices to the household consumer is 58%. So the 3% wage increase offered to doctors seems to fall even under the most modest inflation figures. But here's my question. You said that a realistic attitude must be maintained towards the health insurance fund. A few years ago, the Reform Party had such a promise that we would grant social relief to high-wage earners. Now you're saying that the chances of a health insurance fund are limited. Does this mean that the Reform Party has given up its promise to introduce social tax exemptions for those on high pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U10	No, we haven't given up on that promise. As a result of this promise, we understand that social tax revenues should increase, as highly paid workers should come to Estonia. I do not support the proposal to tax the entire dividend income with social tax, because in this way we could drive business away from Estonia. You gotta be sensitive about these things! I think the doctors are in different situations. Doctors of intensive care, surgery, cardiorenimation are clearly overloaded and at the same time underpaid. In some new areas, however, wages are much higher, although the intensity of work is lower. Unfortunately, we run into each other again because we don't know exactly how much someone gets paid. When it is said that the average salary of doctors last year has been EUR 1704, many doctors say that they have not dreamed of such a salary. I also have a proposal to disclose the doctors' salaries. The salaries of all those who are paid from taxpayers' money could be public, so we could have more information, greater transparency. We'd be much better off on the ground to make reasoned decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U11	I would now like to ask two questions registered on the spot, as I said at the beginning. First of all, Mr Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U12	Prime Minister! You brought a series of wage numbers that scare people to see how well they serve, yet they strike. In fact, these figures do not indicate the salary of a single job, but usually the doctor receives such a salary in case of one and a half or two jobs. They've really been overworked. And you failed to mention the other side of these demands: in addition to wage increases, doctors are also calling for a full reform of health care in the country. Because it seems that our health care system is not sustainable if we use modern words. We repair hospitals with health care funds, build walls and rooftops, and all our hospitals, public limited companies, are profit-making companies. I have a question for you: will there be a health reform in Estonia in the coming years, just as the Minister of Justice next to you intends to reform the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U13	Reforms are also ongoing in the health system. After all, the major reform of the hospital network that is required has been carried out in the main. Ten years ago, we had ten times more hospitals: 200 instead of the current 19. Hospital reform is complete. I certainly do not agree with those who would like to undertake some kind of cardinal reform of the health system. I do not agree with those who say that our health care system is on the verge of destruction, etc. All studies of the World Health Organisation, OECD studies and other studies that I have studied unequivocally confirm that money is not used as efficiently in health care in any European country as it is in Estonia. And if we use taxpayers' money very efficiently in healthcare here in Estonia, there is clearly no reason to start turning the whole system upside down. There is certainly a lot of inequality in this system, but the system as a whole ensures that Estonian people have access to health care at a better level than it is in Finland, for example. We might wonder if it is worth turning this well-functioning system upside down. At the same time, however, the pay gap in the medical system in various disciplines is quite large. Of course, I think the medical system also needs extra money. But it must be understood that this extra money can only come from the pockets of potential patients or, more generally, taxpayers. The state does not have this money from anonymous sources and therefore an argumented discussion on this subject is very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U14	I would like to ask you now for the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U15	Mr. Prime Minister! Negotiations on a collective agreement have been under way for a long time, and in the course of these negotiations the Minister of Social Affairs has sent a letter to the Association of Physicians and the Professional Association of Health Workers, where he writes, I quote: 'The Ministry of Social Affairs continues to confirm its readiness to pursue social dialogue on the financing of health care with the Association of Physicians and the Professional Union of Health Care Workers. At the same time, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are only two institutions in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who are employed by the employees mentioned in the draft contract that you have submitted and who can be party to the negotiations. ' These two institutions have been mentioned: the Astangu Centre for Vocational Rehabilitation and the Illuka Reception Centre for Asylum Seekers. I now have a question: whose area of government is health care institutions and who in Estonia is the authority or institution responsible for the sustainable functioning of the health care system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U16	Responsible for the Riigikogu, responsible for the government, responsible for the Minister of Social Affairs, but in matters of pay, medical staff usually face negotiations by the management of the hospital. Hospitals can cooperate on certain issues and this cooperation takes the form of the Estonian Hospital Association. In this case, the representatives of doctors are partnered with the Hospital Association; on certain issues, the Health Insurance Fund could also be a partner. Thus, just as there is no minister or government for doctors in wage negotiations, they are not in the second half of strike matters either. This does not mean that the Ministry and, more generally, the Government and also the Riigikogu are not responsible for what is happening in the administration. However, in matters of pay, the hospital's management is the negotiating partner.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U18	The next question is from my colleague Kajar Lember to the Minister for Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U19	As we know, the substantive negotiations between the Municipalities' Cooperation Council and the Government Committee have only recently been concluded. Their main objective was to secure a stable revenue base for local authorities based on laws and the European Charter for Local Government. This should provide local authorities with the revenue base required by law and by law to carry out their duties and guarantee the investments needed for local development and the sustainable development of local authorities. How do you assess as a minister: does the final outcome of this time's negotiations meet the objective?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U20	The purpose of these negotiations is set out in § 9 of the State Budget Act and it is seen much more narrowly than you have just said here. It is foreseen to negotiate the size of the municipal budget fine-tuning fund in the draft state budget and the distribution of the budget fine-tuning fund. If there are differences of opinion, the government will also give them to the Riigikogu, together with the draft state budget law. The content of our negotiations is, of course, much wider. We are negotiating on educational, social and environmental issues, i.e. we are talking about a wide range of issues. Some things we've come to an agreement this year, not some. There is nothing to do, the process of planning the state budget is the process of finding agreements and balance. In some areas, I would like to mention, for example, the provision of road services, the problems of which have been the cause for years of passion-enhancing discussions and the great tensions that have been reached in this year's funding. The position of the municipalities and the representatives of the State is the same. However, there are areas where local governments have a different attitude, especially with regard to the revenue base of local governments. The aim is to restore the pre-s cut-off situation. Also, it is not so much the amount of education support as a whole that is satisfied with the way in which education support is distributed internally. Generally speaking, if I wanted more, I would have wanted more money, but in the end, a solution has been found that was possible with these financial opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U21	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U22	For this, you must certainly be commended that at least one small amount of money goes to local roads in the 'election year' budgets. However, the purpose of entering into these negotiations is that the representatives of the local governments and the government will be able to sign the protocol. There may also be a protocol of disagreement. This year, the protocol has not been signed for many years in a row, and so I ask: did the disagreements still remain too large or what, in your opinion, are the main problems that the protocol of cooperation has not been concluded in recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U23	Yes, indeed, this year the representatives of the municipal associations did not sign this protocol, but, for example, they signed it last year. It is not right that this has happened for several years in a row. And the representatives of the local government associations signed the protocol of interim negotiations. In this respect, your information was not accurate. But signing it is what it is. The negotiating protocol is 20 pages in total. I have them here, and I very much hope that the members of the Riigikogu will also examine the additional material on the budget during the budget debate and examine exactly what the differences have been about. The representatives of the municipal associations have verbally confirmed that all dissenting opinions have been correctly recorded in the minutes. As far as the signing fact itself is concerned, I would like to compare it with the signing of the Riigikogu verbatim: we may or may not sign it, but what was said is probably correctly written there. However, the disagreements, as I have already said, concern in particular the restoration of the revenue base and the financing of education. The latter, too, is a question which the municipalities clearly point out. It was agreed that teachers' growth is a priority, and this is the position of both the local governments and the members of the government committee. Differences in opinion are particularly relevant to the narrower issues of funding in the field of education, such as the wage and investment components of support professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U24	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U25	I very much hope that the government wants to raise teachers' salaries, not teachers. But the municipalities really have two major problems with the budget for next year, as you mentioned. One of these certainly concerns the basic school and upper secondary school law, the more specific nuances of which must be asked by the Minister in this area. Another major problem is that, according to the state budget for next year, the dream of a local government's independent income base will, in my opinion, make a total decline. In the opinion of the Minister for Regional Affairs, does it make sense that income tax and land tax on the municipal budget will be considered as taxes passed on to the state budget in the future? Do you think that they will have to be taken as public support for local budgets in the future, or are these resources for the fulfilment of the state's tasks?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U26	It is certainly not about support. The tax to be transferred shall not constitute a refund. I also raised this issue in the government during the budget debate. We discussed this for quite a while, and the government's view is that if we have any revenue collected by public authorities, including the Tax and Customs Board, these should also be reflected in the document presented to the Riigikogu. So far, the situation has been such that these amounts are reflected in the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget law, but not in the figures that are in the main text. The government's view is that these could be reflected in the main text. However, the amount of tax collected and transferred is still governed by the Income Tax Act. In this respect, the State Budget Act does not make any changes. When we talk about the revenue base as a whole, in the protocol that will be handed over to you as additional material for the draft budget, all these percentage increases are clearly stated. I would simply point out, in comparison, that the increase in the revenue of the municipal budget is 4.29% compared to this year, while the increase in the revenue base is 7.29%. So, in general, things are going for the better, although I would like more, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U27	Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U28	Dear Minister, I would also like to ask a question concerning investment in education. Very many municipalities across Estonia are concerned about the loss of this component in 2013. In previous years, municipalities have taken loans, invested heavily and improved the state of schools, repairing them and adapting them to needs in other ways. They considered that this money would continue to exist in the state budget. What do these local authorities have to do now to cope? The problem is also that there will be no salary for the school support staff that the municipalities had at their disposal in previous years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U29	First of all, the so-called investment component, which is 3.2 million euros for all Estonian municipalities, i.e. 226 for local governments this year. I stress, it's all over Estonia. If we look at the number and investment grants that have been allocated from the state budget in recent years for the education investments of local governments, these figures are absolutely not comparable. The order of magnitude may be the grant of one school, but 70 schools have been supported in recent years from a regional support programme called the KITE scheme alone. In addition to other programs, CO2 quota money and much more. In this context, these amounts do not make up much. The question really arises when some municipalities, as you mentioned, have taken out a loan or used State Real Estate AS to fix their school. I guess this is the point of discussion. Those municipalities that really have not received public subsidies at all, I would stress that most of them are, but if some have still not received investment support under other support programmes at all, we could discuss the matter. Perhaps there could be a compromise and a certain amount of investment support for them in the future. But this is what we are discussing with the Minister of Education, here is the issue of the Equalisation Fund Regulation and also the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which the Minister of Education has just submitted a draft amendment to. As far as support specialists are concerned, I agree with you that school psychologists and school logos should not raise teachers' salaries. It is also a topic that will be discussed in the context of the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. I stress that the municipalities and the government committee have agreed that the increase in teachers' salaries is a priority and that they should contribute to this in some way. However, the work of logo beet and psychologist is also necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U30	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U31	Dear Minister, Pretty soon, there will be a budget debate at national level, and local governments will also have their own budget discussions soon. In some parts, the state budget is based on national programmes, as well as municipalities making and clarifying their development plans. Here's the question. There is a national programme in Ida-Virumaa. Have the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa negotiated with you with the aim of the national programme including the proposals made by the municipalities? It's on the one hand. On the other hand, are the municipalities in their development plans based on this national programme? It's almost due.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U32	When we talk in the context of negotiations with national self-government associations, they did not discuss the Ida-Viru County Action Plan separately. We do have a committee to monitor the implementation of this action plan, which includes people from local authorities, and where these issues are on the agenda. A new development plan for Ida-Viru County is currently being prepared, the draft of which was recently introduced on Toompea, not in this house. Ida-Viru municipalities will certainly follow with interest what will take place during the discussions on the next financial period of the European Union. This also concerns support for the Ida-Viru programme. So, in this sense, negotiations are under way, but not in the committee that we were talking about here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U34	Next is Mr Valeri Korb's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U35	Mr Prime Minister! Last Thursday night, against Friday, there was a terrible accident in Ida-Virumaa. We all know that the fire broke out in the Vaivara municipality at Sinimäe Elementary School and came under control by Friday afternoon. The building was severely damaged by fire as well as by fire-extinguishing water. Has the Government of the Republic discussed the provision of emergency assistance to Vaivara rural municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U36	You have to ask for help. I think Vaivara Municipality has acted very responsibly once she has secured the building. As far as I know, the Sinimäe school building was insured and the insurance covers the damage. At the moment, the question is whether to restore the building in its former form, as I know the insurance company wishes, or to build a smaller schoolhouse. The old school is intended for 162 students, but 56 students are currently attending school. I'm sure the Ministry of Education and Research will not be excluded from solving this school's problems, but basically, the school's repair needs should be covered by insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U37	Please, Mr Valeri Korb, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U38	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. Don't you think cases such as those in Vaivara show how vital rescue troops are in small rural areas as well? Does the Government of the Republic plan to make changes to the Estonian rescue crew scheme in view of the burning of the Sinimäe School?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U39	The issue of rescue commandos is rather an independent one, and I am quite convinced that the reforms that have been carried out in the Estonian rescue system have been very necessary. In the rescue system, taxpayers' money must also be used as economically as possible, with as few resources as possible to achieve the maximum effect. And as far as I know, no one has any reproach for the rescuers in this school fire.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U40	Please, Mr Valeri Korb, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U41	Prime Minister! We have received information that the city of Narva was left without any rescue command at the time of the extinguishing operation. But there are 65,000 people living in Narva. Big city! How do you assess a situation where there are no rescue cars in such a big city for several hours?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U42	In the case of major fires, it is still the case that the rescue crews of several settlements are heading out to erase. Surely the solution cannot be that we keep the taxpayer's money out of rescue teams, hoping that maybe someday they'll find an application. I don't want to cast a shadow on any rescue personnel, but let's say one of the newly closed commandos was one that had only two challenges in a year. One was a burn, and the other, I don't remember exactly, but I think it was bringing the cat down from the tree. In this case, it is obvious that these people are unable to maintain their qualifications. This will not be possible if there is no real rescue. Rather, large life-saving commandos than small and very limited commandos.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U43	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the subject we are currently discussing has been worded by Mr Korb: the restoration of the Sinimäe school. Please, let us stay within the limits of this issue. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U44	Good Prime Minister! From your first response to Mr Korb, I understood that the government is taking these problems seriously and supportively. For my part, I would like to add a suggestion that the government should mean that it is still the closest Estonian-language rural school to the eastern border. Despite the existence of insurance, it would certainly require the moral support of the government and probably material support. I believe that the government will also discuss this in its sitting. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U45	If there is a need, we will certainly be discussing this issue at a government meeting, but it will be clear when it is clear what will happen from this school house: whether the old building will be restored and its restoration will be fully compensated for by insurance or whether it will be decided to build a new building. The language of instruction cannot be decisive in deciding on the restoration of the building. And let it be made clear that 18 students are studying in Estonian at this school, 19 students in Russian and 19 students in immersion classes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U46	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U47	Prime Minister! The subject of the question you have been asked is the restoration of the Sinimäe school, but until the school building is restored, these students also need to study somewhere. I understand that the Vaivara Municipality Government has found a solution and placed children in other buildings of the municipality, but this leads to expenses for the municipality. For example, school transport must be organised differently. The solutions you have proposed that we look at the cost of renovating the building, if necessary, are we going to help, is a positive message, but do you also say that in the case of extra costs arising from this extraordinary situation, the municipality government can turn to the Government of the Republic and ask for support from its reserve?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U48	This is conceivable, but the allocation of funds from the government reserve fund depends, of course, on the content of the application. I know that most students will be directed to the Sillamäe Astangu School and part of the study will continue on municipal or private premises of the municipality. All of this isn't supposed to be about driving to Sillamäe. Once again, if there is a request for assistance, it will probably be discussed thoroughly. I do not need to speculate here on what will be the government's decision on a possible request.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U49	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U50	Next is the question by my colleague Valdo Randpere, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U51	Minister, thank you very much. As a good media consumer, as well as reminding me of yesterday's discussion here in the Riigikogu Hall, I have the impression that Estonia is dealing with law enforcement agencies and the judicial system, which are exceptionally ineffective. I wanted to ask you whether this impression is deceiving or whether it really is in real life. And if it's like this in real life, what is the Ministry of Justice going to do to speed up our legal proceedings so that the system becomes more effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U52	Good questioner! I think your impression is somewhat misleading. I do not think that the judicial system is in any way excessively ineffective in Estonia. There's always room for improvement in every system. If we compare our data with other European data in those areas where they are comparable, then the judicial system is certainly more effective in Estonia than on average in Europe. The procedures are shorter, and that is, in fact, the measure by which it can be measured the length of time spent in court. But what are we going to do? It is true that the government and the coalition have set a goal that judicial proceedings should be possible within a hundred days. There has been talk in previous years, and we have discussed this in this very Chamber too, so that procedural rules should be changed in court proceedings so that the balance of the process is not damaged. This means that everyone will be able to participate in the process in one way or another and the interests of all parties will always be adequately protected. I'm sure that's what we're going to do. I think it is very positive that the government has approved the budget, that in 2013 we can make a very significant contribution to human resources. An increase in the pay of the judges, the top players of the judiciary, is possible in the middle of the year if the reform of special pensions can be agreed by then. The initial readiness for this, I know, is there. It is now also necessary to overcome the dog's tail, i.e. to agree on precisely how existing pensions will be indexed and on what date new special pensions will be abolished. As far as the staff and structure of the court are concerned, it is not a secret that the salaries of lawyers are quite high in the private sector. At present, however, court consultants pay just over EUR 800, which is not a competitive salary for a qualified lawyer at all. In this regard, too, we are taking the necessary steps this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U53	Please, Mr Randpere, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U54	If you get a little more detailed, I realize there are plans. But what would you say about the emphasis yourself: should the existing laws be amended first and foremost, or should administrative and organisational activities be taken more into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U55	We're doing both. We are changing the law, and the law-makers are sitting in this hall, not in the branch of executive power. In cooperation with the judiciary, which is the courts that are independent, we are also discussing how the courts themselves believe that their actions should be improved. As early as the 2013 financial year, we are making a good contribution to having a team to help judges understand justice as quickly as possible, so that justice is speedy and qualified. In addition, administrative activities have been launched: new IT systems have been introduced and are being introduced to help improve work. Just recently, we decided to lower the state fees in this very hall. We endorsed the rather innovative principle that it is cheaper to submit documents to the court via electronic channels, and that has brought the cost of recourse to the court down a lot. All that we've done. I would not underestimate any measures, neither administrative nor human contributions, but I am pleased that, after a period of financial hardship, the country now has the opportunity to contribute more to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U56	Please, Mr Randpere, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U57	Both in the Committee on Legal Affairs, where I belong, and yesterday in this very Chamber, it was also discussed that the period of preliminary investigation in Estonia is very long. Actually, there are no deadlines. Are there any ideas on how the Code could be changed so that the criminal investigation would lead to certain deadlines within which the pre-trial investigation should take place? In the Committee on Legal Affairs, as has been said, it has been debated and this proposal has many sympathies, but the ideas proposed contradict each other. Any thoughts on that at the Justice Department?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U58	At the Ministry of Justice, all kinds of thoughts are constantly being thought about. And that idea isn't new. I know that in the legal circles, legal theorists and practitioners have been discussing this for a long time, this idea has not been born yesterday, you referred to yesterday's debate here. The subject has been up for a long time. And I can recall the times when the time limits for pre-trial investigations were in place. In society, there is a common understanding of all such rights. If there is an idea in the ranks of the legislator that it is necessary to discuss whether deadlines should be set for the preliminary investigation, then I believe that the executive power, in this case the Ministry of Justice, must certainly analyse this. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U59	Now two issues registered on the spot. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U60	Minister of Justice! I'd like to move on from here with the same question. The Honorable Attorney-at-Law stated yesterday that there are no time limits for criminal proceedings in two countries, Estonia and Russia. In this regard, you have answered Valdo's question to some extent. My question is more specific: has the Ministry of Justice analysed the deadlines for criminal proceedings in general until legal proceedings, especially in the case of more serious crimes that are harassing society? Have you done any such analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U61	The analysis is ongoing. So I can answer: yes, analysis is done. I am sure you are also aware that in their time the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice signed a declaration such as the Laulasmaa, which defines what are the most important types of crime and what is being dealt with in particular. One example of this is how this analysis has taken place. For example, the time limits for criminal investigations into minors will be examined for how long something is being dealt with. I am pleased to confirm that, as the procedures for minors have been prioritised, these deadlines have clearly become shorter. There has been a step forward and these steps will probably be taken further in the future. The answer is therefore: analyses have been carried out and their results are certainly available. But yes, if there is an interest in a specific issue and there is a desire from the legislator's ranks to analyse the processing deadlines in Estonia and the practice of the rest of the world, we will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U62	The last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U63	Dear Minister, It is nice that ministers declare the monitoring of deadlines and priorities, but in fact, criminal proceedings are still running according to the book of the law. I partly received the answer to my question from Mr Randper's question about deadlines, but for my part I also note that deadlines are things that determine the speed of the whole trial and that is why it is appropriate to come back to them in the future. You said that one aspect is legislative initiative and the other administrative action. I ask then: what administrative steps do you take to ensure, for example, that the transfer of a judge from one court to another does not go through the ministry, but that the judicial system can decide for itself operationally? In other words, is there any movement in the reform of judicial administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U64	I suppose you have some idea of the answer to that question. The reform of judicial governance has already been discussed and will probably be discussed in the future. In some ways, however, politicians still hold the key to the reform of all judicial administration. The possibilities of developing the self-regulation of the judiciary so that courts themselves can be more flexible in their responsibility for better quality and faster procedures, which serve the interests of both the people and the Estonian economy, are diverse. In particular, this issue may be more for politicians, because there is a need to seek a certain consensus. However, as far as the administrative parties are concerned, there is quite a lot of work going on in this area, along with the judiciary and court administration councils. I dare say that this contribution to people, such as the creation of Advocates-General posts, which serves the purpose of putting together a support team for the leaders of the judiciary, justifies itself. I believe it will become a breeding ground where new judges will come from. It is no secret that so far many court competitions have failed because, although the judge's salary may seem high, he does not appear to be a judge on such a salary. That is why it is perhaps the most important thing that we do in the coming years that we are contributing to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U65	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U66	The next question is from Mr Vassilyev to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U67	Good Prime Minister! We discussed the exemption from the land tax of the residential land last spring. At the time, the opinion was expressed that the local governments should be informed as soon as possible about the compensatory mechanism and that it could also come to the Riigikogu relatively quickly. In February of this year, I asked you how this bill was going. Then you answered, and I quote: 'The draft is probably being prepared somewhere. If you had asked a specific question, I could have given an answer for a particular minister at what stage this draft is at. ' It has been six months now to clarify the matter, and I will ask the same question again. What's the status?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U68	The draft is in the coordination circle. This means that it should soon reach both the government and the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U69	Please, Mr Vasilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U70	We, as Social Democrats in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, have asked several times for an overview of how the compensation mechanism covers the loss of income from one municipality or another that would have been received from the land under housing in the form of land tax. We have not received this review. Have you seen this secret document made at the Ministry of Finance? If so, can you tell us how many municipalities might lose their purpose in the case of several municipalities because of the new regime?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U71	It is certainly not a secret document. I recall that I myself was with Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi here in Question Time when he answered the exact same question. Compensation is planned by increasing the personal income tax rate for local governments from 11,4% to 11,57% next year and further to 11,6%. The sum of all loss of income to local governments is compensated. It is also an overcompensation. This means that the majority of local governments in Estonia, or more than 200 local governments, will thus win, but it is estimated that about twenty local governments will lose in some part. It is not possible to compensate all municipalities for the loss of income due to the 100% tax exemption on residential land by increasing the rate of income tax. But let it be said that the sum of the sum will be compensated, the winners will be ten times more than the losers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U72	Please, Mr Vasilyev, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U73	The question is for you, as Prime Minister, to evaluate the work of a member of your office. Do you think that the pace of improving an article in a law for almost a year and a half is to be assessed with a satisfactory grade? Or would you rather give the Minister an unsatisfactory grade?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U74	Every bill can always be drafted faster, but in this case, the mechanism for compensating all municipalities for losses due to land tax exemption has been known for a relatively long time. The rates on the basis of which local authorities receive more personal income tax are also known to the public and, in my opinion, the possibilities for local authorities to plan their budgets for the next few years have in no way been narrowed by the fact that no specific law has been passed. But I admit, this bill could have come up faster. At the same time, it must be recognised that there are a number of complications to the draft. They do not concern this rate but the exemption as a whole. For example, it is important to know how it works for rental housing, rental housing, etc. I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance has dealt with these issues very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U75	We will continue with the issues registered on the ground. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U76	Mr. Prime Minister! Today it has become apparent that the cost of the state budget is 14 million euros due to the tax exemption for homeland, including 1 million euros for administration. As we know, next year's state budget will also be in deficit. How wise is it to consciously increase the deficit in the state budget? There is currently no need to implement this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U77	I think the country tax is a fair tax. But it is only fair if it is applied fairly. As is well known, not all local authorities applied the tax on the land under their residence in a fair manner. It should be recalled once again that some owners of the relatively modest plots of Tallinn had to pay 25000 kroons or even 50000 kroons of land tax per year. This is certainly not about fair taxation, but rather about the gradual confiscation of human property by the municipality. Of course, it cannot be tolerated by the governments of any country, by the parliament of any country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U78	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Küttt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U79	Prime Minister! On Monday, the Regional Minister replied to our inquiry on this subject that the exceptional cases, to which you also referred in your reply, for example, housing and certain commercial premises in residential buildings, are regulated either by a special regulation or are laid down in this law, the draft of which is currently on the coordination circle. What, then, is it going to be in the law, or is there going to be a special regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U80	Since the draft law is in the coordination circle, I would not be inclined to make assessments and comment on it right now. When it reaches the government, the government will discuss it thoroughly and then forward the draft to the Riigikogu for discussion. In my opinion, however, these exceptions must certainly be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U81	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U82	Next is the question by Mr Tarmo Tamme, Minister for Regional Affairs, to Mr Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U83	Mr. Minister! You have already partially answered the question of what will happen next year with the salaries of support specialists. You argued in support that this money should not be taken away from local governments. If this money moves to the state budget for teachers' salaries, it means that local governments will lose it. For example, in the case of the city of Tartu, I remember that the source of this cover should be found in the old money 10 million kroons. How strong are you and will you be able to protect it until the end, so that this money will still be paid by the support specialists?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U84	You have given an example of Tartu here, but the situation is actually very different throughout Estonia. Unfortunately, there is not a very uniform model to say that everyone does so. We have municipalities and cities that pay extra wages to support specialists from the municipal budget, there are municipalities that pay support specialists from the state education allowance, and there are mixed options that are partly paid here and there. And what to deny is that there are schools where there are no support specialists at all. What's the right solution? It is governed by the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school sent by the Minister of Education to the coordination circle. I proposed the possibility that, by decision of the local government council, up to 10% of the teachers' salaries could be allocated to the remuneration of support specialists. I have also discussed this with the Minister of Education. I think it could be a reasonable compromise. We will certainly also await the views of the local governments as to whether it is right to give this land of play to the local governments so that they can decide on their prorites. So this is the decision of the local governments. As I said, like the representatives of the government, all municipalities are of the opinion that teachers' pay is a priority. But at the same time, I am convinced that, for example, psychologists and logos are necessary at school, it is not always enough for parents to go to a specialist. And not all parents can spot this need, so the school's help is important. I stand for this and I believe that we will find a reasonable compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U85	I would like to ask you a final point, Mr Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U86	Minister, it is a pleasure to hear that teachers' pay is a priority. But how do you implement it if the local government budgets are also paid by kindergarten teachers and in-school teachers? The current funding of local authorities for next year does not inspire optimism.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U87	The increase in teachers' salaries will definitely include next year's budget. In total, public education support is 7.5 million euros higher than this year and is intended to raise teachers' salaries. The question is how many municipalities will be able to contribute further. The absolute value is increasing, and I would point out that there is also a restructuring process and that the number of students is decreasing on the other hand. So, in the end, the funding for education is clearly increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U88	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, our Question Time is over. Many thanks to the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions, but many thanks to the members of the government for answering them! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U89	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the third Wednesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Let's start with my colleague, Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Social Democratic Party Group initiates the Act amending the Health Services Organisation Act. The task of the Act is to expand the public income base in the health sector and to ensure that the system is able to cope with its tasks both now and in the long term, to increase access to health care services, to reduce the departure of trained workers from Estonia and to provide general medical care to uninsured persons under the same conditions as insured persons, which reduces the need to finance unavoidable assistance and ambulance costs. In short, how long are we gonna lay our hands here and tell them there's no money? This does not increase the pay of doctors or nurses, the order of treatment is not shortened and the list of preferential medicines is not extended. Our proposal is to pay for general medical care from the state's other revenues, as is currently the case with unavoidable assistance. According to our proposal, the deadline for the entry into force of the draft is 1 January 2014, because this will require a change in the state budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U91	Thank you. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U92	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Hanno Pevkur. The subject of the inquiry is the start-up grants for young doctors. This year, as we know, young doctors who start working in the country will be able to apply to the state for a starting grant of up to EUR 15000. However, we know that no young doctor has taken this opportunity so far. On this basis, we are going to ask the Minister five questions. Among them, we also ask whether the conditions for starting grants were set in the light of the views of the stakeholders or whether they were not asked for their opinion. At the moment, the impression is that the opinion was either not asked or not heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U93	Thank you. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U94	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Five members of the Alliance of Democrats will submit an inquiry to the Chancellor of Justice. The content of the inquiry is taxation of fuel imported into the Republic of Estonia from the Russian Federation and the related activities of customs officials. On 24 June this year, I put a written question to the Chancellor of Justice, and the Chancellor of Justice replied that he must take some time, submit an inquiry to the Ministry of Finance and deal with this activity. I very much hope that the time has come now and that the Chancellor of Justice has dealt with this matter in depth. Since he left many questions unanswered during the summer, we hope that this time the Chancellor of Justice will answer all our questions. Yesterday there was a meeting of the South-East Estonian Envoy Group with the Deputy Director of the Tax and Customs Board. We have to admit that the situation has become ugly at the border offices, because the employees of the Tax and Customs Board not only provide low-quality answers to passengers, but they make a mistake because they claim that there are regulations in the Tax and Customs Board that restrict passengers. Turns out there's never been any such regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U95	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted one bill and two inquiries. If the draft law complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. If enquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Some messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: The Government of the Republic s. A draft law implementing Regulation No 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the citizens' initiative, launched on 24 September, is a commission of constitution; the Government of the Republic. A draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated on 24 September 2004, is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has confirmed the departure of Riigikogu member Andres Herkel as a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs and Mart Nut as a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's clarify the agenda. Yesterday we missed the second item, which was the second reading of the Constitutional Committee's draft law on the election of the European Parliament, the election of the local government council, the referendum law, the Riigikogu Election Act and the amendment of other laws. I would like to ask Mr Andres Herkel, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present his speech. Wait a minute! Igor Gräzin, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U97	I couldn't fully control the protocol, but yesterday I asked, and the Bureau agreed that all those places that violate the Constitution should be deleted from the protocol. These are, in particular, any reference to specific pending cases. The chairman nodded and remained so. I started reading the minutes, and there are at least two points in the case files. Why haven't they been erased?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U98	This issue is being addressed. Please, dear Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U99	Would the Bureau like my help in dealing with this matter? I'm gonna find these places, and I think I might find them more than the board. Isn't that right, Janek, we're gonna do it with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U100	If you wish to give us help, you are always welcome. Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U101	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft amendment to the sample was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. a February 22, 2005. This was preceded by a long procedure for preparing a draft with the participation of all the political groups of the Riigikogu, and we went through the first reading in this Chamber on 8 May. There were also quite a number of questions at the time, and there was a lively debate. The draft concerns in particular the clarification, auditing and possible future verification of certain aspects of the conduct of electronic voting. By the deadline for amendments, 22 May, a number of amendments were received from colleagues from the Central Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group and from a member of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Lukas. In addition, in the meantime, the Commission has dealt with a number of proposals that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself initiated in cooperation with the specialists of the Election Commission of the Republic. It should also be noted that on 8 May we conducted a rather thorough hearing and a debate on the feasibility of online voting. There was also a specific way to control it and its reliability. Specifically, we worked on the amendments on 12 June and 18 September. Again, Priit Vinkel, Chairman of the Election Commission of the Republic, was present, and Priit Vinkel, Adviser to the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. As the various aspects of the draft were dealt with at first reading, I will focus mainly on the most important amendments, which are also reflected in the table of proposals. First of all, however, one of the general principles on which the Commission was based: in the context of this draft, however, we are only dealing with amendments concerning the subject of the draft, i.e. whether or not they relate to the organisation of electronic voting and voting, leaving aside all those matters which already concern the electoral system as such or the charging of the election campaign costs. I would like to thank the Socialist Group here, who withdrew its proposal on the ceiling of electoral costs at the committee sitting, after submitting it in another process to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where we are dealing with the issue of funding political parties. The Central Party Group also withdrew one proposal. Tõnis Lukas did not withdraw his proposal concerning the introduction of open lists in elections to the Riigikogu, but the Commission took the view that this should be done separately from the draft under discussion and the organisation of the electronic vote when it was discussed. Now more specifically than the amendments. I will highlight the most important. First of all, change the title of the bill, which makes perfect sense. If colleagues accept, the title of this draft would be 'the law on the election of the Riigikogu and on the amendment of other laws'. In addition to electoral laws and referendum law, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act is amended for example. Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, is also very important. The proposal concerns the retention of the ban on electoral agitation on election day. I would remind you, for the time being, it was in the draft that this ban would no longer be implemented. The reason was that electronic voting, as well as pre-voting, is becoming increasingly popular and that the content of this ban disappears just like it does. But having discussed this on several occasions in the Commission, and also from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, we have come back in our analysis to the fact that tradition is also of a certain value and the withdrawal of such a ban is perhaps not the most understandable at this time. Then there was the Central Party Group's proposal, which concerned giving all polls the opportunity to vote in advance from the tenth day to the seventh day before the election day. This was not supported by the Commission, considering that it would be sufficient to vote in the county centres on these days. This would also result in a relatively high financial burden. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed that the electronic vote be closed at 6 p.m. on the last day of the advance vote, i.e. two hours earlier, instead of 8 p.m. Likely, there is a habit here too, and people need to be informed in good time. The reason is simply that the subject of the draft is to a large extent a verification: the voter must also be sure that his voice will arrive exactly as he has wanted. So what if the time for electronic voting ends at the same time as the time for the preliminary vote and the electronic vote in the polling station can no longer be changed? This two-hour slouch means that if you wish, if you are not sure about your electronic voice, you can go to the polling station and vote on a traditional route that is not allowed on the main election day, as you know. Amendment 5 introduces a new option for ordering the box home on election day. So far, it could be done until 4:00, but now we're bringing the time back by two hours to 14:00. At the same time, however, there is an important possibility: under certain conditions, by providing a personal identification number and other relevant data enabling the local electoral commission to identify the person, the wish to bring the box home can also be transmitted by telephone, as was ever possible. Amendment 6 is similar but goes further. The Commission took part in this proposal from the Centre Party Group. Amendment 7 concerns the provision of fees for committee members at law level. The following amendment introduces an update which concludes one of the procedures currently in use. The paper votes cast at the time of the pre-voting were previously counted separately, but now the election committee found that there was no need for this to happen; they were counted together with the votes cast on the election day after the election procedure was completed, after eight o'clock. This will make elections, among other things, more transparent to observers if these procedures are not carried out anywhere in separate rooms, at different times. I have already spoken about Mr Lukas's proposal, and the remaining proposals are largely technical. I would not dwell on them at any longer, except for the most important amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Amendment 16, which provides that verification of the electronic voice is not to apply until the 2015 Riigikogu elections. At the same time, however, we foresee the possibility of testing the electronic voice control system in the 2013 municipal elections. This does not lead to any legal conclusions, but it does provide us with additional information on the functioning of the electronic voting control system so that we can be sure that it will be implemented, as we foresee, in the 2015 Riigikogu elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U102	Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! My question concerns what you have finished with, that is, the validation of the voice. I remember one meeting of the Commission at the end of last year, attended by both IT experts recognised by the Election Commission and representatives of the Election Commission. They also stated in the protocol that they are ready to implement the voice verification system already in the 2013 local elections. So what happened in the meantime that it's been delayed for at least two years? The current wording of the law does not give any hope that this 2015 will apply because it is written 'not before'. It may happen that in a year's time, it will come back and it will be said that it will not apply sooner than, for example, in 2017. What happened in the meantime, even though both IT experts and the Republic Election Commission were prepared and promised?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U104	Thank you. In the meantime, what Mr. Toobal knows happened. First of all, this protocol was about the time when the draft had not even been initiated. Undoubtedly, the plans may be optimistic, but we must pull them back depending on our readiness. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu held on 8 May, as I indicated earlier, a very thorough hearing on the controlability of voting on the Internet. The experts answered a number of questions about how this mode of control works specifically and concluded that, in addition to the e-vote system, corruption could also be provided by a control device, and we did not have the assurance that it could be implemented without testing. Testing at local elections, say, by locally selected centres or units, is probably the most logical way of testing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U105	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague, Priit Toobal, to the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U106	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On the subject of electronic voting, we have had several rather heated debates. This spring we finally reached the point that the political groups of the Riigikogu jointly acknowledged the need to tackle this issue. It was positive that a working group on e-elections was set up in the Riigikogu, which analysed the content of electronic voting at length and thoroughly, and also brought a number of experts into its work, such as Ahto Buldas, Sven Heiberg, Tarvi Martens, Jan Willemson and Priit Vinkel. I am pleased that there were representatives from all the political groups in the group, and the leader of the group, Valdo Randpere, dealt with the matter with full seriousness. So at least the beginning was extremely encouraging. The result of the working group was that, in order to increase the security of the e-vote, it is necessary to establish a system for controlling the arrival of a voice, that is to say, the verification referred to above. Unfortunately, however, it was decided in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the basic system of e-voting verification would be postponed until 2015. This is, according to the Centre Party Group, a fundamental mistake that will cause the entire work of the current e-election group to be sanded. Why is this control system so important? This is particularly important because online voting has grown from popularity to a second way of voting. The experts mentioned above stressed the fact that popularity can make e-votes a fascinating target for attackers with various motivations. Experts confirm that a capable computer enthusiast, an interested person, not a peak hacker, would be able to create a damaged property that could change or block an electronic voice so that the voter himself might not even know about it. The experts therefore say that, in order to verify the reliability of electronic voting, it is necessary to give the voters the opportunity to check whether their vote has arrived on the server in its unaltered state. I am concerned by the fact of the expert review, which is the experts recognised by the electoral commission, that mass attacks against electronic voting will be easier to achieve in 2013 than ever before, and that we will not have any reliable means of taking such attacks into account fully. I recall that, at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 17 January, IT experts, including representatives of the Electoral Commission, confirmed that there was a capacity to obtain a technical solution for the verification of electronic voting ready for the 2013 local elections. Therefore, the Centre Party Group cannot agree that the key point needed to make the e-vote more credible will be removed from the draft or its implementation will be postponed. In 2013, the voters must be given the opportunity to check their electronic voice. I believe that there are enough IT experts in Estonia to develop this technical solution. This is of paramount importance to the state and to democracy. Are we an e-state or not? Given that the introduction of the e-vote verification system has been excluded from the draft, the Estonian Central Party Group proposes to suspend the reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U107	Thank you. Please, my colleague Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U108	Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is a compromise between the various political vectors and also between our wishes and technical possibilities. Elections are one of the most important instruments of democracy and it is in the interests of every democratic country to increase turnout. The more people participate in the elections, the better the election results reflect the will of the voters. Estonia is today the most free internet country in the world. The legendary TechCrunch wrote in his article yesterday that the important reason for Estonia's leadership is excellent e-services, such as a unique online election system. E-elections are a good example of how the internet can be used to strengthen democracy. The main objective of e-elections is to increase turnout, and the last ten years have shown that we are on the right track. Although Estonia started its e-election journey first in the world and has gone further than other countries, the e-choice system and procedures are not yet complete. The renewed electoral law is an important step in the right direction. The e-election scheme will become more transparent and convenient. We managed to program a number of important things into this bill, such as the publication of statistics on the distribution of e-voices, which did not exist in previous elections, as well as the harmonisation of e-voting and e-choice times, which makes the e-choice process more understandable to the voters. A number of important changes are yet to come. For example, we will be able to implement the list of voters by electronic means for the next elections, which will allow us to vote in any department. Unfortunately, technical progress will take longer. But we will definitely come back to this and other issues. In the opinion of the Reform Party, this is an important and necessary bill and I call on you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U109	Thank you very much, Mr Korobenik. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U110	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I represent my personal opinion, and I am here for the reason that yesterday, in this Chamber, a coalition ambassador made such a statement that the people of Estonia must ask for their country back to themselves. So let's talk about this in connection with the election process. Democracy has probably been invented by the ancient Greeks, and they also had an idea of the electoral process. When the elections were held in Athens, the oldest processes described were carried out in such a way that a clay pot was set up, with black and white stones next to it, and all the voting townspeople walked by, took a stone, and put it in the pot. Thus, the secrecy of the elections was guaranteed, everyone was able to make a personal choice, etc. In short, democracy. Let us imagine that at that time a person or group of persons would have appeared, such progressers who say that not everyone is comfortable in order for everyone to be able to take part, they have a suggestion that everyone can vote in any place, such as the sea. We have a sweetheart, they have a sea, there's someone living in Neptune, one god. The wisher can throw a black or white stone into the sea, after we listen to the waves whisper and Neptunes informs us how many black stones there are and how many whites there are. And now that you think a little bit, you'll understand that this is the meaning and content of electronic voting. I don't think that would have worked in Athens. I think such men would have been charged with trying to take over power and would have been driven out of town for life. But now to our voting system. I've never worked in my life with completely small children, kindergarten with an older group of children, first and second graders. Since then, I am sure that the illustration sometimes gives much more than well a lot of close text. That is why I have an illustration for you today, the same deck of cards. When I come to the polling district to vote, I have before me the electoral committee (see, here is the election committee) and are observers (you are the observers). I'm looking at what I'm being offered, and I'm picking a candidate out of this package. You don't know what choice I made, you don't know the election committee, and you observers don't know that either. But what I'm sure of is that I made my choice, I put exactly the number I dialed, and it's not going anywhere, because there are the same observers sitting here with the faces of the wolf who won't let anyone go after that box. All the conditions for free elections have been met. If I'm gonna vote electronically, I'm gonna make a choice, I'm gonna look and I'm gonna pick, but this time, I'm gonna be totally free to show you what I chose. Why? Is it insured that a person who votes at any time at home has no one next to him? No, it's not. We can't guarantee it, so there's a chance. Is it insured that there isn't a boss sitting next door who's just putting pressure on this person? No, it's not. Is it insured that no one will vote with my ID card? So this choice is quite open. Now I have to pass my vote on to the voting system programme. Dear colleague Aivar, would you contribute? He's in the role of the voting system today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U111	Excuse me, we have no help here, you can also express yourself orally. Please, Mr. Colleague, sit down!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U112	No, he can stand here. He doesn't say anything, he's silent, and all I have left to do is give him that voice. We were working out, but five meters is the maximum distance. Catch! Got it, great! Can I check if he had empty pockets, that there was nothing there? Can I make sure there's no loading from one pocket to another? How do I even know what's in there? All I can ask is, 'My dear voting system, tell me, please, is what you got and what's registered exactly what I chose? ' Actually, you can answer whatever you want, but, as agreed, he'll say, yes, that's exactly it. But I can't control it, you can't control it, the election committee can't control it. This is how the voting system works, and then the votes will be lifted out of their pockets. Tell me, please, what's in your chest pocket?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U113	Once again, please, you may stand there, but not...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U114	Aivar, if you march back, show me, maybe you have something else in your other pockets.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U115	Please sit in your seat!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U116	It's an electronic vote. And all the electronic votes that have taken place in Estonia are not legitimate in this part of electronic voting. It's a completely opaque system. Ladies and gentlemen! When they break into the Pentagon page when their files are broken, who can be sure that some voting system will do exactly what we want? So once again, this is my personal opinion. But I do know a number of high-level programmers who don't use their compote on election day. They go to the polls and they vote there, because that's the only condition to make sure your voice gets where it has to go. And if anyone in the coalition insists that the Estonian people must ask for their country back to themselves, then I say to this: the Estonian people must first and foremost get back the right voting system, which is compatible with the Constitution. He must have the opportunity to choose the power he wants, not what somebody may have put in his head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U117	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, It is necessary to update the electoral laws. The main focus of the draft is on electronic voting and clarification of the organisation of elections, and this certainly needs to be done. In Estonia, electronic voting has indeed been used a total of five times and has become increasingly popular. Our role is to try to make it as high-quality and correct as possible. The issue needs to be addressed and the Social Democrats have supported the idea from the outset of setting up a separate election committee composed of specialists for the organisation of electronic voting. We also support the fact that the new draft provides for the auditing of the e-voting system at the level of the law, which gives the hope that, after the tests next autumn, the voter will be able to verify in future whether the vote he has given has arrived or not. Of course, as the previous speakers have pointed out, there are many safety risks and problems, but we still hope that the machines will be smarter, sometimes smarter than the people and that the system will start in the future. And it's always possible for people who don't trust the machine to go to the station and give their vote there, that opportunity will definitely remain. In addition to all the technical and organisational innovations that should make e-voting more and better, it is certainly essential that the results of the electronic voting are known in the future with the precision of the polling district. So far, they were published with precision in the constituency. I think this will increase the transparency and credibility of electronic voting. At the time of the first reading of the draft act, it was pointed out that there was a point in the draft that would remove the restrictions on electoral intervention on election day. It was as if it had to create a level playing field with pre- and e-voting when voting at the ballot box. SDE was clearly opposed to this, we have tabled an amendment to this, and I am pleased that it received the unanimous approval of the Commission. The government felt that way too. I really think that those voters who want to go to the precinct on election day will be delighted by this restriction, because they will not have to go through the adventure course between several colour tents until they reach the polling station in the future. Rather, SDE believes that if we meet society's expectations, we should take a further step forward with restrictions, reduce the volume of the campaign and increase the control over expenditure. In the interests of the current procedure for this draft, we were really prepared, as the Commission rapporteur pointed out, to withdraw some of our amendments, but we have already tabled them for the debate on the funding of political parties. We also hope that cooperation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will continue and, above all, I would like to hope that the members of the government's leading party, who brought their proposals late, will genuinely continue to deal with this issue. At least in their paper they have supported our idea that improvements in controls and, on the other hand, restrictions on the volume of electoral budgets need to be taken forward. I believe that the points on this issue will lead to consensual decisions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U119	Thank you very much, Mr Lember. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I'm sorry! Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U120	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague Tõnis Lukas and I obviously did not reach an agreement on which to go before the speaker. I actually wanted to come last to answer some of the arguments that have sounded here. First of all, the enthusiasm of Priit Toobal for the fact that the sooner we apply verification, the better, we basically share. However, as the next speaker, Mr Korobenik, said, this is not only a political compromise, but is a compromise between our good wishes and our technical readiness, or the trial phase of 2013 in local elections, is still necessary. However, as regards the publication of Mr Stalnukhin's fundamental mistrust in electronic voting as such, until the legitimacy of the elections is called into question, it is surprising in this Chamber and, in my opinion, absolutely inappropriate. I would remind you that, in addition to everything else, the electronic voting system is audited. This audit process will also become even more detailed and clearer by independent professionals in the future. Estonia is not among those countries where the legitimacy of elections can somehow be questioned. In our case, there are also no observation missions that are being carried out for a country in major difficulties with one democracy or another. However, the OSCE/ODIHR observers have followed in detail our electronic voting system and its implementation, because we are pioneers, and they completely believe that this is a way to bring more voters into the electoral process. We're doing a good job, but we need to keep an eye on the evolution of this system. The draft under discussion also reflects many of the problems they have raised and we will continue to work with them. But to come here and talk about throwing stones at Neptun's ♪ it's no good to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U121	Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. Please, does Priit Toobal have a line?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since my name was indeed mentioned and Mr Herkel mentioned my enthusiasm, I would like to say that this enthusiasm has not been taken from the ceiling. Until the last meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and at all meetings of the Working Group on Electronic Elections, both IT experts and the Election Commission confirmed that they will be ready with a verification system for the 2013 local elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U123	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my colleague Tõnis Lukas of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few words to say, because there was an amendment I had made. Indeed, in the process of processing this law, and here too today, I have received even more or as much positive attention as I have received by presenting the draft approval of the environmental investment centre board. This, of course, encourages further action and a little bit of characterising why I proposed to change the electoral procedure in the particular case of this draft law. The content of the proposal was really to harmonise the electoral procedure and, in view of the established electoral tradition, to meet people so that they could understand the type of elections in Estonia, that elections were open. For the most part, we have an open list method in our elections. In Riigikogu elections, it is also easier to understand the movement of votes unless there is a contradiction in, for example, the movement of votes in the district and, after the movement of votes through the common list. Both would be based on the principle of openness when such a principle is accepted on the common list, because there is already an open list method in the district. I have heard a number of criticisms about this proposal. One objection has been that then there are candidates of different sizes in an unequal situation. Once again, the content of the proposal was that votes were weighed and the person who received more votes moved forward on the list and towards his or her goal of becoming a member of the Riigikogu faster and preferably compared to those who received fewer votes. Of course, the size of the electoral district is also taken into account and the votes received are compared with the number of votes cast in the elections in that district. It has been said that it can bring too many people known to the public to the Riigikogu and may reduce the chances for people who are not well known to become members of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu has been in previous formations and is also known as telemen, singers, artists, city leaders and other well-known people. I think, cheer up! You've done well to fear that whoever gets more votes is more dangerous to statehood, of course, wouldn't pay. As regards the need for faster amendments to the electronic voting, I fully accept this, but certainly the debate on some electoral issues must not be ruled out within four years. Democracy around us or the sense of democracy among the people will change in that time. At the moment, I think we need to show that we have not concreted the quotation here, but are broadening both the concept of the system of political parties and the electoral order, and in this sense it is very good and good that the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the chairman of the Commission and many people have also thought that the proposal in itself needs a debate. To date there are also members of the Riigikogu who are already ready to present this proposal as a separate draft, but I think we will take it step by step and take it easy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also deals with these issues, so that no event dies. I fully accept the need to move forward with the electronic electoral system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U125	Thank you, Mr Lukas. I understand that Mr Pomerants would like to speak on the subject for two minutes. There's no chord? First of all, I call on my colleague Aivar Riisalu, who has signed up before. Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U126	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am such an unhappy Member, who must come at all times at the heart of the senses of the remote. Today's speech was not planned either. As a progressive young person, a bright-eyed young man, I am sincerely in favour of any kind of innovation, and I think that my constituents will also take quite actively the opportunity of e-voting in the future and that the share of e-voting in my electorate will certainly increase. Therefore, I think that if some opponents think there are some kind of black force that completely ignores the e-vote and thinks that it is the devil, then these black forces, if there is any such black force, let's say, the people to whom the e-vote raises questions, are not fighting against the e-vote as a phenomenon, and they actually have exactly the same right to get answers to their questions. We are honest, very many professionals who do not deny the need for an e-vote have said that its audit capabilities should be deeper than hitherto. Unfortunately, the machines are man-led and are not yet smarter than we are, which makes it possible to do something about the machines. It is simply a question of where these machines are, where they are under control, how they want to behave and maybe not even want to behave. I stand more on this board because I have a question today about the organisation of our Parliament. If someone comes and puts a laptop on this table and shows us PowerPoint from up there, there's nothing wrong with it. If a free, democratically elected Member tries to play a server in the Riigikogu Hall without saying a word, then the Head of the Riigikogu intervenes, tries to set him up, perhaps to take away the freedom within his full ambassadorship to play the server without disturbing the hearing, and move around the hall where he wants to move. It was what amazed me. If there are any parties who dare to debate the e-vote, to make some arguments against it, or to ask the rulers to improve the system, is it really necessary to suppress all such attempts? Push down even with such measures that a member of the Riigikogu is not allowed to be a server. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U127	I do not think that a member of the Riigikogu can be a server because he is not able to be a server. Please, Marko Pomerants, speaking from the floor, two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U128	Thank you. Actually, I didn't want to make any appearances at all, but I don't know the Rules of Procedure. I had this question: if a member of the Riigikogu hears his name being called from the speaker, does he really have to make an objection, or does he have the opportunity to refuse?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U129	Of course, there's a chance to say no, but he has a chance to perform. I hope there's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There are 19 amendments to the draft law. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. The second has been presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, taken into account in full. The third has been submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the lead committee has disregarded. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U130	Thank you. I ask for the third amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U131	I'd love to. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the commission has failed. Please vote! 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, taking full account. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been partially taken into account. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. The eighth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. The ninth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. The 10th amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 12 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. The 15th amendment has been tabled by Tõnis Lukas, the commission has failed, but according to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, it will not be voted on. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U132	I ask for a vote on Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U133	We will vote on Amendment 16. Good Riigikogu, I will vote on the 16th amendment, which has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and which has been fully taken into account. Please vote! 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of Amendment 16, 15 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 17 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 18 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 19 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. However, a request has come to the Board of the Riigikogu from the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Act on the Election of the European Parliament, the Act on the Election of the Local Government Council, the Act on the Referendum, the Act on the Election of the Riigikogu and the Act on the amendment of other laws 186. We must also vote on this proposal. Let's go to the final procedure. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the European Parliament Election Act, the Local Government Council Election Act, the Referendum Act, the Riigikogu Election Act and the Act amending other laws. Please vote! 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 63 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported and bill 186 second reading has been completed. Please, Igor Gräzin, what is the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U134	It's the same thing. Twenty minutes ago, there was yesterday's verbatim on the Riigikogu website and there were all those statements that were aimed at influencing ongoing cases. I would point out that the principle of separation of powers does not allow this. I believe that the anti-constitutional elements must be removed from the verbatim record. The tenogram's up right now unlegally and completely wrong. Please, let's take him down, fix him up, and then he'll go up again!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U135	I say one more time: I am not able to deal with this right now; I am chairing the sitting now. What other questions are there? There will be no withdrawal from the verbatim. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U136	Unfortunately, I have to make it clear to Stalnukhin and other colleagues: we agreed here that there is a principle of separation of powers, we are discussing problems, but we are not interfering with the judicial process. Today the court has gone to judgment and the court has the right to respect and freedom. And if yesterday, in some of our speeches, we had the impertinence of suggesting what a court decision would have to be, I think this is a direct violation of the Constitution. That, and only that, is the question, which was raised for the first time in relation to the Anglo-American system by Kadri Samson. I'm just supporting him.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U137	Ladies and gentlemen, We are now continuing our trial or discussing what was in yesterday's verbatim. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U138	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. To help you a little bit, I have a procedural question about what's going on here. It's not like a random vigilante raises his hand, calls himself a server, or whatever, and just starts talking. If there's anything to talk about, you should ask a procedural question. My procedural question is, can't we just keep going?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U139	Thank you. I already told you we could move on. Thank you very much for the fact that there are also MPs who understand that we have a hearing now, but not a server discussion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U140	Dear Igor Gräzin, you will see where I am sitting now. I'm sure people will handle it. I can't take anything down right now. I'm sitting here and people went to deal with it. Please, let's not continue this discussion! Please, Mr Toobal, a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U141	Thank you, Mr President. When Igor Gräzin offered to help the Board of the Riigikogu, I also offer and remind the Board of the Riigikogu of the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, which states that everything that is said about the panel of the Riigikogu is part of the verbatim of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U142	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U143	Thank you. I have a procedural question. I don't understand what the principle is going to be taken out of the verbatim, but is the board planning, for example, if you take down a call or a part of it, to inform the person who specifically spoke in this Chamber about something that must not be reported to the public that some part of his speech or the whole speech has been taken down?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U144	We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mrs Vassilyev, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U145	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, There were no proposals from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees regarding the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws within the deadline for amendments. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in cooperation with the initiator, decided to make some improvements to the draft. These improvements can be summarised in three areas. The first concerns local authorities and their right to enter into an administrative contract with the Tax and Customs Board in order to transfer the duties of the tax authorities in the case of local taxes to the Tax and Customs Board. The aim here is efficiency, i.e. for certain taxes, it can be assumed that the Tax and Customs Board has developed a higher level of competence in this area than local authorities. It is therefore more reasonable if the tax authority is the Tax and Customs Board. In addition, local government councils are given the right to establish the form of a road and street closure tax declaration. So far, they didn't have that right. The second amendment also gives access to tax secrecy to the person who audits the activities of the tax authorities. The point is that if the Ministry of Finance merges its internal audit units, they would be able to audit the activities of the tax authorities. The third amendment postpones the date of entry into force of the law by two months. 1 October, which was the original deadline, is immediately at the door, and it is not enough time for the law to be declared and the legal corrections to be introduced. The committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U146	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will begin the examination of the draft 241 amendments. Three amendments have been received, all of them from the lead committee and they have been fully taken into account. First, second, third. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U147	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Information Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please attend the Riigikogu Chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U148	Good afternoon, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government will submit to you a draft law amending the Public Information Act. The purpose of the amendment is to make public information, in particular databases held by the State and future databases, re-usable. This would enable us to stimulate the creation of new products and services in the private sector if they have sufficient, easy, up-to-date access to data collected by the state. In order to describe the substance of the law, I note three more important things. Firstly, we are supplementing the law with the concept of re-use of public information. Secondly, it is an important prerequisite for re-use that this part of public information, which should be re-usable, is available in a machine-readable form. If you will allow me, the technical definition of machine-readability that the draft law offers will not be read out here, but in principle this should mean that public data is not available as a standard PDF file, but in a way that will allow future users of the data to analyse and systematise them in a more sensitive way and not require disproportionate effort. Thirdly, the draft complements the principle of "costorientation." According to this, the holder of the information must provide explanations on the development of charges for access to public information and for re-use. The charges to be taken must not be unduly restrictive and unduly anti-competitive. In order to calculate the costs, a clearer principle has been given whereby revenue from recovery must not exceed the costs of re-use plus a reasonable depreciation cost to ensure the sustainability of the service. As an intermediate remark, this issue of expenditure certainly deserves a substantive debate in this Chamber, too, because there were several positions within the government in view of the peculiarities of the databases held by the various ministries. It was considered that, where data are recyclable and presented in a machine-readable manner, they should actually be available free of charge to a wide range of persons. I say that I personally support this position too, but we do have databases, and in the future there may also be databases that may require certain costs for their activities or investments. In this case, today's European Union's right to charge the private sector for making the data available will also enable the principles of charging it to be regulated by law. This is, in some ways, an internal compromise, given the current state of our databases. I do not rule out coming back to this issue in the future and discussing it. If we would like to radically change this now, introduce a principle of free use, then we must take into account its budgetary impact. It is certainly worth noting that making all these public data re-usable and transferring it into a machine-readable form does not in any way mean compromising the principles of privacy and copyright. In other words, we can say that there are still data in these data arrays, the privacy and copyright protection of which must continue to be guaranteed. This means that these databases fall under the object of this law and must be taken into account by the holders of such databases. Of course, the law also gives the Data Protection Inspectorate a delegation to monitor it. This will certainly remain an important principle. Separate from the process of preparing the draft law. One topic of the debate was which part of the public information, as understood in the current Public Information Act, should be re-usable. The government has proposed to you a part of the public domain, which is primarily data that, according to the Public Information Act, fall within the definition of a database. We think that, given a certain novelty, this is a first and sensible step. In the future, we should not exclude the making available of other data under the concept of public information in this form either, but, in the case of databases, I dare say that such databases are of a size of 600, the implementation of these principles is, however, a very fundamental step forward. I call on you to discuss and approve this draft in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U149	Minister, there is at least one question for you. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U150	Thank you. Please see if it is possible to clarify the position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Examples from other European countries and the United States show that, in fact, free access to data leads to more money in the state budget. As a result, the private sector will succeed in creating applications that the state will not have to create then, will not have to support them, and taxes will also be collected as a result. Is the Ministry's position final that we are not currently discussing granting free access, or by default, is it about charging a fee in the text of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U151	Thank you. Once again, the original position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs was that all data should be available free of charge. Of course we hope, and I think we have some reasonable expectation that using this data will make it possible to create products and services that will in themselves contribute to economic development. The government's current position is to make this compromise, given the specific nature of the operation of some databases, given their "transfers" to the budget. First of all, we are talking about the databases held by the Registries and Information Systems Centre, which is managed by the Ministry of Justice. As a result, such a compromise was made, cost-based. The point of consideration is, in my opinion, that when we talk about some new databases or even very specific expenditure depending on the specific nature of the database and apply the principle of reusability and machine-readable availability, but at the same time, from a national point of view, relatively disproportionate costs should be incurred, there could be a legal possibility that some of the costs would be passed on to the actual, direct user of these data. About this principle is also based on the relevant directive of the European Union, i.e. that in certain cases fees are not excluded. Depends on how substantive we can get in this debate, we should definitely involve fellow ministers, and then we can reopen this debate. But right now, I dare say, this is quite a significant budgetary transfer for some registers. In order for these databases to work, we need to find a direct cost cover for them from the state budget immediately. I would like to apply this principle 100% and I would be willing to support it, but in the government we have to make agreements and find solutions that work for all ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U152	Dear Minister, You have one more question. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U153	Thank you. Dear Minister, If I read the purpose of this law, the explanatory memorandum states as follows: 'The need to initiate a bill of law is to correct the violations referred to by the European Commission in the Estonian legal order. Since, according to the European Commission, the rights attached to the re-use of public information are not guaranteed in Estonia or are not sufficiently legal clear in the current law... ' My short question is: would you explain in simple words what Estonian citizens have missed up to this day?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U154	Thank you. I would say, first of all, that the debate with the European Commission on the full implementation of the Re-use Directive is a beard story on its own. As far as this draft is concerned, I would not so much like to emphasise this as the conscientious implementation of directives that are important to you as a very euro-minded person, but the opportunity to provide a certain resource for innovation in the private sector. This is a more important message today. Yes, it is right that there has been such a debate, and I hope that with this bill we will now also take this debate down. So in the end, like two birds with one stone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U155	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please report to Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U156	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed a draft 263 at its regular meeting on 17 September 2012. The initiators of the draft act, or representatives of the Government of the Republic, were present during the discussion of the draft act, namely Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, and Sandra Mikli, adviser to the Public Law Service of the same Ministry, as well as, of course, members of the Constitutional Committee. Kristen Michal explained that although the draft was prepared by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Affairs was responsible for making public information available. And indeed, today, Juhan Parts, not Kristen Michal, spoke as a waitress in the Riigikogu. The aim of the draft is to align Estonian legislation with the so-called "open data" directive of the European Parliament, which, by the way, dates back to 2003. In other words, the purpose of the draft is to make public information re-usable. It will manage to stimulate the creation of new products and services in the private sector, which will save taxpayers' money in the long term, as the state does not have to create these services itself and spend money on them. An important prerequisite for data re-use is that data are available in machine-readable, digital and structured form. Some public service data are not currently machine-readable and need to be translated into a corresponding format, which represents an additional cost to the State of around EUR 50000 per year. The draft provides for a transitional period in order to make old data available. We have examined in the Commission why the government decided to charge money for using published data, while many other European countries do not. The answer was that the Estonian state hopes to save money. It will most likely remain a topic of discussion in the future. There will be time for this and other debates until 10 October of the year announced by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs within the deadline for submitting proposals for amendments. The committee decided to appoint me rapporteur for the draft and to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 26 September. The Commission also proposed to conclude the first reading. All the decisions were by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U157	Thank you, dear waitress. You have at least one question. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U158	Thank you. Dear waitress, You have alluded to what we can also read in the draft explanatory memorandum's coordination table. Some organisations, including the Estonian Internet Community, have drawn attention to the problem of the actual availability of open data, which you have also mentioned. If other countries get them free of charge, we want to do so on a cost-based basis. Can you tell us how it is in other countries, and what was the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in this regard? If we have a good e-state, is it worth restricting access to data by making it pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U159	In many other countries it is free, in some it is not. Indeed, this European Parliament directive also makes it possible to ask for money. This bill is undoubtedly a step in the right direction because it gives us access to data that is currently not available for money. But whether taking money actually saves money for the Estonian state or vice versa, the free disclosure of data brings more money into the Estonian budget is, in my opinion, a matter of discussion and that is what we have also talked about at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I believe that we will certainly come back to this issue both in the process and in the future of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U160	Thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 263 amendments at 6 p.m. on 10 October 2012. The first reading is closed and the third item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U161	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the planning law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft law amending the Planning Act is to resolve the problems that have arisen, in particular, in the planning of line structures, in the implementation of these plans and also in ensuring overall legal clarity on this issue. First, I'll tell you what's in the structure. The linework has a state road, railway, pipeline or high-voltage line within the meaning of the law. In short, buildings that generally pass through several local authorities. In the combined effect of the two sections of the current law, there is such a problem that, if the regional plan is to establish the location of the line building and the regional plan is to be confirmed, then according to the current wording, all those relating to the location of the line building must be entered in the respective municipalities' general plans and, in essence, the regional plan will enter into force only after that date. This means that until the municipality's overall plan has been changed, the location of the building will not legally enter into force. The second paragraph, § 30, in today's wording, states that if the local government accepts and introduces changes to the general plan or the detailed plan, it is immediately possible to require the local government to dispose of the immovable property immediately and in return for a fair payment. The consequence is that local authorities are not interested in approving the structural structures provided for in the regional plan in their overall plans, seeing that this could lead to immediate financial burdens. There is a strange situation where, on the one hand, the choice of location has been made, everyone has even agreed to it, but legally the implementation of the plan is hindered. In order to resolve this situation, we have proposed to amend § 291 (5) first and to introduce a sentence that requires the local government to make changes to its overall plan in accordance with the regional plan within 30 days of the establishment of the regional plan. The second proposal is to repeal at all § 30 - The transfer of immovable property, since the fifth chapter, which refers to the transfer, actually provides for two methods of disposal. Paragraph 30 refers to the transfer of immovable property which follows the logic of the Law of Obligations Act and, at the same time, § 31, which refers to the application of expropriation for the purpose of implementing the plan. Since the Riigikogu has separately adopted the expropriation law and it regulates the transfer process in a precise, thorough and also more clearly for the owner, the treatment of two parallel mechanisms in this act is no longer justified. It makes sense to stick clearly to § 31, which refers to expropriation. Then this process would be clearer and also more understandable to the municipalities, they would be able to adopt their overall plans, their detailed plans and know exactly what commitments this will entail both in negotiations and in the disposal of the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U163	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U164	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! We know that planning is a set of agreements and compromises, and if really there is an agreement in the county plan to build some kind of line building, then this must be indicated in the overall plan of the local government. In the past, this time was unlimited, and now we are putting a stop to the fact that it has to be done within a certain period of days. However, if the local government still wants to consult with its people, to convene a public meeting, it may not be enough for 30 days. My question is: do you think that, by introducing this time limit, we will not reduce participatory democracy in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U165	No, we are not reducing participatory democracy, because similar disclosure mechanisms, participatory democracy, opportunities for participation are also provided for in the process of regional planning. For example, local authorities or local residents can also challenge the county plan, submit disputes, if necessary, until the court proceedings are in place. When a decision has been taken at one point and the result of the compromises has been chosen for regional planning, it is simply not appropriate to start the whole debate again, because this compromise had been found with similar mechanisms before. If you ask whether such an obligation should be imposed on the local government at all, it is still important, in terms of legal clarity, that when people look at the local government's overall plan, all objects and restrictions are included. Not that they're gonna have to go through the county plan. As the involvement process has already been in place, it does not need to be re-examined. If there is any doubt that the local government, the local council, for any reason, does not gather so often or there may be any technical problems, then the Riigikogu may discuss whether 30 days is sufficient or whether this period should be a little longer. But I think that this time must be limited, because if it is already in place in the county planning anyway, people need to know about it by looking at the local general plan, and the sooner they find out about it, the better for everyone in the end. So, for the sake of legal clarity, they still have to be put on that plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U166	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U167	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna keep doing the same thing. A little technical on these planning issues maybe, but definitely necessary. The proposed regulation is now such that the linear object established by the regional plan is entered into the general plan. In itself, the decision-making process carried out by the municipality in the case of a general plan is very regulated, publicising there and there and so on. But now there's this thing that, within 30 days, the object will be transferred to the general plan. You said yourself that maybe the council doesn't gather so often. In any event, it is the decision-making process of the municipality. The municipality decides whether anything is entered in the general plan, it is the decision of the municipality. Shouldn't this moment of wear be described in more detail in the law? And again, the same question that if wearing requires a decision, is 30 days enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U168	In fact, this wording also exists in the current law. The current wording is such that, following the establishment of the regional plan for the selection of the location of a line structure, the location of the line structure is entered in the corresponding pre-established general plan. This entry is also provided for in the law currently in force. Now we will specify that this has to be done for a limited period of time. I agree that the Commission could also discuss further whether it is necessary to redefine what is meant by inclusion. It can be negotiated in any case and then further reflected. I stress that this does not mean making a new plan; we simply carry the information that comes from the county plan, also the municipal plan, so that people are unambiguously understood. People shouldn't read multiple plans at once to get their information.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U169	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U170	Thank you. Good minister! This is certainly a good bill, but, as you said yourself, it will entail financial costs for the local government. Do you see this problem that maybe local authorities will then apply for certain financial resources from the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U171	No, the other way around. There is currently a situation where, for example, road planning is adopted, it is the construction of a state road, and, if necessary, the costs of expropriation are borne by the State Road Administration. But now the situation arises that the municipality must also enter this route of the Road Administration into the general plan and, according to the current wording, after the landowner has been restricted, he can immediately address the municipality in order to be good, enter into negotiations, buy the property from me. Now it's the other way around, we're taking the pressure off the local government. The municipality does not need to immediately transfer its property from the owner. If, for example, the State Road Administration is going to set up a road, it will already negotiate directly with the owner on the basis of the expropriation procedures and, in this sense, the municipality will be relieved of its financial obligations. Therefore, the local authority is also more willing to fix actual situations and indicate in the overall plan where these restrictions will apply in the future. It can be said that, in some ways, hide and seek are currently being played when certain restrictions on the plan are postponed. It is known that there will be a line building in the future, but this decision will not be fixed so that the owner will not be able to make a claim.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U172	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U173	Thank you. I also believe that this is a necessary and logical draft. However, I would like to ask what legal consequences or sanctions will be imposed if, for any reason, within 30, 50, etc. days, the local authority does not carry the line structure into its plan. Are there only courts, or are there other ways to negotiate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U174	That's a good question! That's a painful subject. We have a number of municipalities that still do not comply with the provisions of the Planning Act. I have also spoken here in the Riigikogu that some municipalities still have a general plan not adopted at all. This should have been done for years, but the municipalities simply do not comply with this provision. There are no direct penalties imposed on municipalities for this. In general, for various support mechanisms, such as certain public investment programmes, there are from time to time any conditions or attempts have been made to direct the municipality to comply with its legal obligations. Although there have often been claims in this Chamber that the autonomy of local governments is severely restricted, I dare say that the autonomy of Estonian local governments is quite healthy. The current planning law also gives municipalities even an unusual degree of autonomy compared to other European countries. Municipalities have very high decision-making powers. Rather, it has been a process of persuasion so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U175	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Changing the Planning Act is quite a complicated story at both state and local government level. The Act states that the Act will enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. Have you not thought that perhaps it would be necessary for a few or three months to begin to comply with this law from 1 January next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U177	Thank you. In general, it is still a simplification of the situation. If we look at this from a municipal point of view, as I have already explained, it will rather take away from the local governments at the moment the distressing tension that maybe the owner of the property will have to make claims. It's been negotiated with the local governments. I think this information is common, and when we talk about building lines, the municipal planners are well informed about this process. For example, when we are talking about planning state roads, one way or another, this knowledge exists. Nothing happens here overnight, actually. If a county plan is now adopted, the municipalities will already have the knowledge that they will have to carry it into their overall plan. I don't think that should be a problem. Surely this is not a very rigid or fundamental question. If the Riigikogu thinks that the transition period could be a little longer, then it is possible. In real life, however, we have a problem with road planning right now. A great deal of work has been done, agreement has been reached with the municipalities, road plans have been set, location choices have been made, but due to the delay of the same law, these decisions are postponed, building lines are simply not included in their overall plan to avoid possible obligations to the owners of the property. However, I think that, in order to create legal clarity, the law could enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U178	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U179	Thank you. Assuming that most municipalities comply with the law, we need to think about these borderline cases. I will continue from the same point that if, for one reason or another, any municipality does not carry the required items into the general plan within 30 days, there will be a situation where the municipality has both a regional plan and a different general plan. Can other construction activities and processes proceed on the basis of a county plan, or will the construction of a line building still be entangled as long as it is included in the local government plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U180	The logic of the amendment is, however, that the regional plan will enter into force after the governor has signed it. The explanatory memorandum also states that the draft helps to ensure general legal clarity and eliminates the current contradiction between § 291 (5) of the Planning Act and § 87 (4) of the Government Act. If the Government of the Republic Act provides that the decree of the County Elder shall enter into force on the day of signature, unless the Act itself provides for a later day, the current wording of the Planning Act states that the county plan, which is also one act to which the Mayor signs, will enter into force on the day following that of the entry into all the general plans established in the area of the area of location of the building. The entry into force of this amendment is now no longer separately written, which means that it will enter into force as all the other decisions of the governor of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U181	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Arto Asa, member of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U182	Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Planning Act, which is a popularity known as more than 247 SE, at its meeting on 18 September. Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs, invited to the meeting of the Commission, and Külli Heinla, Adviser to the Ministry of the Interior, gave an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answered questions put by the members of the Commission. I repeat once again over the objectives of the draft. Firstly, to resolve the problems encountered in the planning of the building line when implementing the planning law. Line buildings are highways, railways, pipelines, high-voltage lines. Secondly, simplify the process of county planning. Thirdly, to contribute to the construction of the necessary infrastructure in the public interest and to ensuring overall legal clarity. Legal changes compared to the current law are in themselves quite modest. Paragraph 1 of the draft law amends the planning law and provides that, after the establishment of the regional plan for the location of the line building, the location of the line building and the general conditions for the use of the land and water areas defined by the regional plan are entered in the corresponding pre-established general plan within 30 days of the establishment of the regional plan. Paragraph 30 of the Planning Act is also repealed as the purpose of the provision is unclear and lacks clear legal content. Very briefly from the debate in the Commission, which was undoubtedly meaningful and thorough. It was a question of whether and how a legislative amendment would change the rights and obligations of private owners and local authorities. It was examined whether the draft was compatible with the Constitution and specified the issues raised by the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the Estonian Cities Association. The Minister mentioned these issues briefly in his presentation. It must be said that all the questions were answered exhaustively in the Commission and no substantive problems were left. There was a very harmonious understanding between the drafters and the members of the Economic Commission. Finally, the Commission's decisions. First, send the draft law amending the Planning Act to the Riigikogu for first reading on 26 September. Secondly, to propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of draft 247. Thirdly, it is proposed that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days. All decisions were taken in a consensual manner. If it is in your interest that the construction of the Rail Baltic railway in Estonia or the construction of major state roads such as Tallinn, Tartu or Tallinn would become faster, easier, Ikla road, I ask you to support this draft too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U183	Thank you. You have at least one question. Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U184	Thank you, Mr President. I am convinced of the need for a draft, but I will specify the details. It cannot be that there are two lines in the overall plan of the municipality. One line is the general plan line, the other line next to it is the county plan line, and the person should know which is which. This actually means that wearing one plan into another plan will in any case change this other plan, or general plan. The establishment and modification of the municipality's general plan is in any case a decision of the municipality, not a technical act. The explanatory memorandum to the draft act states that it is merely a technical operation. It's not really like that. So far, in local governments, I understand that stretching etc. has been such a practice that in the autumn, when a general review is carried out, all changes will be introduced and confirmed by the decision of the municipality. At the moment, the draft does not deal with this inclusion as a decision-making process, but it should. Or how did the Commission look at it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U185	Thank you. We have to admit that we did not discuss this in such detail in the Commission the first time. But I think, after today's debate in this Chamber, we will think a little deeper about these problems. I guess we're gonna do the working group now, take the various parties back to the table and discuss what it all looks like in reality. After all, all the parties will probably understand that this is necessary and right, it is not a matter of day politics or party politics. Of course, it is strange that the representatives of the municipality did not raise these problems. They had concerns about whether there would really be more responsibilities. There will be no such thing as fewer responsibilities on the part of local governments. There was also the concern that the original text of the draft also addressed objects with significant spatial impact, which have been excluded from the current draft, we are talking only about building lines. But yes, the associations of rural municipalities and the associations of cities did not raise these real-life issues in their approaches, at least not in the material that was available to the Commission. We will certainly discuss this between the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U186	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U187	Thank you. Good colleague! If you look at it as a whole, this bill only concerns the building lines. But we've had a problem with the Nursipalu exercise field for a long time, which we've legalized for the last, I don't know, six or seven years. You didn't discuss in the committee to expand this circle a little bit, perhaps on garbage dumps and exercise fields like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U188	No, the artist has chosen that when we talk about planning, it is only about building lines. It is also important to know that the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with other ministries, is probably preparing for the amendment and codification of all laws on construction and planning. It's a very big job, there's a lot of details and questions. It has probably been the Government's intention to solve more complex issues as a whole as part of its "planning and construction code" revision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U189	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 247 amendments on 10 October 2012 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U190	We will proceed to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on ambient air protection and the amendment of the law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic. I am pleased to give the floor to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft removes the shortcomings of the Ambient Air Protection Act, to which the European Commission has drawn our attention, fully transposes Directive 2001/81/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and also transposes the definitions and requirements of several other directives. For example, the basic terms of Directives 2001/81/EC and 2009/30/EC, such as emissions, biofuels and biomass, are taken over to ensure common understanding with other EU countries. In order to put an end to the current lack of comprehension of certain concepts, the draft also sets out the concept of sudden discharges, sudden technological discharges and sudden accident emissions, which are not defined in the current legislation. The calculation of sudden emissions shall also be required for the determination of the emission of pollutants into the ambient air from the sources of emissions from the installation and the actual emissions from the accounting year for the granting of permits for ambient air pollution, for reporting by operators and for the payment of emission charges. Sudden emissions have been taken into account and are taken into account in the preparation of national emissions recapitulative reports and projections. In principle and in substance, the obligations on the protection of ambient air by operators of sources of pollution are unchanged by amending the law. More about the changes. In order for our road transport to become safer, cheaper and more environmentally friendly, tyres manufacturers and suppliers need to start using the energy label on their products for fuel efficiency and other essential parameters, which will certainly make it easier for consumers to choose. The Act also establishes a mandate rule that confirms the fuel monitoring database regulation. Fuel monitoring data shall be aggregated and published in the database. This database is already fully available and traceable on the website of the Environmental Research Centre, so that each of you who refuels fuel, who uses a car, can also look specifically at this information about your home filling station in this database. The draft imposes an additional obligation on fuel sellers to inform consumers of the biofuel content of petrol and diesel and of the appropriate use of different mixtures of petrol at the consumer's request. These are major changes. I ask the Riigikogu to support the draft submitted by the Government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U192	Minister, there is at least one question for you. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U193	Thank you. Dear Minister, When you are quite often near Tallinn, or near Kehra in Harjumaa, the unpleasant smell that comes from Kehra's paper factory penetrates the nose. It is incomprehensible how this is still possible in 2012 and how people on the ground will tolerate it from morning to evening. Does this bill help to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U194	Thank you. This bill does not deal directly with this problem. However, I have also been to this paper mill myself and asked questions about the same subject to the leaders of the company, who have already made considerable investments to alleviate this problem and, hopefully, in a few years' time, to completely undo it. The production of paper is accompanied not only by an unpleasant smell in Estonia, but also in other countries; unfortunately, it is accompanied by an unpleasant smell. But yes, of course, everything must be done to make this problem a smaller one, and I believe that it has been fully adequately acknowledged by the business leaders and that they are making efforts to improve the situation on the ground there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U195	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned that this bill will make road transport safer, cheaper and more energy-efficient. The justification was that, according to the draft, tyres will be labelled for noise levels, fuel efficiency and safety purposes in the future. How exactly will Estonia's road transport still become safer, cheaper, more energy efficient in relation to its labelling?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U197	Thank you. At the moment, there is a situation where, for example, when buying tyres, information about all the criteria listed by you is not always available. And it is purely that the consumer will be able to make his purchasing decisions in the future, taking into account all this information, and that publication of this information is mandatory, to make more reasonable choices and thus make our road transport more environmentally friendly and certainly safer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U198	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Environment Committee Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister gave a thorough overview of the draft and I will not go over the good points of the draft here. A few of the questions raised by the members of the Commission to the rapporteurs who presented the draft to the Commission were related to the new classification, according to which future emissions will be accurately identified. This definition may have new things to imagine, and it is better to imagine that these things will be described in future regulations at the level of the government. At the moment, however, we must be satisfied that noise and light emissions, for example, have been mentioned as emissions. The Commission had a few questions about the nature of light emissions. It seems new, but it makes sense in itself. Astronomers have been using the concept of light emissions or light pollution for a long time. One area of question has already been addressed here, which is related to the labelling of tyres. There were no further questions for the members of the Commission, and the Commission made simple and positive decisions: to appoint the chairman of the committee as the judge of this law or rapporteur of the Commission, to bring the draft to the Chamber today, to propose that the first reading be completed and to ask for the deadline for the amendments to be set at 10 October. 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U200	Thank you. Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, good colleague! When we discussed the effects of this law in our small community and how we should behave, Inara Luis asked your Member of the Commission, Rainer Vakra, whether the air would become cleaner after this law came into force, but Rainer could not respond. Maybe you can.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U202	I'm sure we're getting cleaner. By the way, the air is getting cleaner in the time distribution maybe without this law, but once this law is passed, the air is cleaner than it is now. For, for example, in Stone Oil, which yesterday we had a thorough examination of the ambient air situation in the Commission, the air is getting cleaner every day. Therefore, if we adopt this law in a few weeks' time, the air will be cleaner than it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U203	Good waitress, thank you! I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, if you would like to ask questions, please be more operational. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U204	Thank you. I promise I'll be faster next time. The explanatory memorandum to this law states that the consumer is obliged to inform the consumer about the biofuel content of petrol and diesel fuels and the appropriate use of different mixtures of petrol. My question is: how will it develop in practice? I'm gonna go to the gas station, I'm gonna take 10 liters of gas, and I'm gonna tell the seller that I'm asking for an explanation, then there's gonna be a half-hour explanation, and then I'm gonna tell him I'm gonna repeat? Or is there some way that the explanation goes with leaflets or some other means?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U205	Pay attention to the first hearing! The question not only concerns gas stations where there is a service provider who can point out that there is information on this wall page, but also concerns gas stations where there is no service provider on the ground. In these cases it must be possible to read the information. More information on the various petrol blends should also be available on the websites of the fuel companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U206	Honourable waitress, thank you. Now there's no more questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 267 draft amendments at 16 a.m. on 10 October 2012. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U207	We are going to the sixth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U208	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This draft law proposes to increase excise duties on alcohol by 5% per year between 2013 and 2016, with a view to increasing the revenue of the state budget, of course, but also to slow down the increase in the availability of alcohol. This proposal has already been announced to the public in the spring when we prepared a state budget strategy. We also consider such long-term notice to be important for the producers, and they need to know in advance that they are facing a smooth, moderate tax increase. It is estimated that the increase in excise duty will result in an increase in the tax revenue of the state budget by cash in 2013 of EUR 7 million, EUR 22 million in 2014, EUR 40 million in 2015 and EUR 60 million in 2016. As a result of this 5% increase, the retail price of alcohol will increase on average between 0.6 and 3% depending on the type of alcoholic beverage in the new year. The rise of 3% concerns the retail price of vodka. As the share of excise duty in the retail price of vodka accounts for about 50%, it will, of course, also lead to higher price increases. For beer, the share of excise duty in the retail price is 16% and the impact of the increase in excise duty on the price is 1%. Alcohol excise duties are also gradually increased because they do not stimulate the secret market. Our proposal is for the law to enter into force on 1 January 2013. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U209	Thank you. There are also questions for you, Minister. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U210	Mr. Minister! Yesterday, the nation learned how much electricity we could have from 1 January due to the entry into the free market. More or less anyone can figure it out. We know that the final price of electricity has quite a large share of national taxes. Today we are talking about the amendment of the excise legislation on alcohol, but this law also includes excise duties on electricity and fuel. Wouldn't it be nice to reduce any of them? Has it been mentioned in the government that it might be possible to reduce the electric excise duty? Perhaps this could be done within the framework of this same bill? For a second reading, we would make such a proposal and we would also approve it. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U211	I'm not one of those who knows how much electricity will rise next year. It's a stock market price, and we don't know exactly what it is. Nor is it right to argue that electricity excise duty constitutes a significant part of the price of electricity. This part is quite marginal and certainly the worst thing that could be done in the transition to a market-based price is to combat this effect by lowering the tax. Firstly, it is only temporary, one-off; secondly, we would only give away the revenue from the budget. The exchange price will not decrease, the amount received by the State will decrease. So that's a very wrong move! This has been discussed by finance ministers with a very unanimous conclusion a few years ago. In our government, such a proposal has not even come up on the agenda. Excise duties are still intended to limit the consumption of goods with harmful side effects, and energy produces goods with very harmful side effects.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U212	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U213	Dear Minister, It is very positive that excise duty is being increased, as is said, on goods with such bad side effects. But every positive enterprise often has a negative side. You also spoke in your report about the secret market. I'm asking about the past. We've got alcohol duty raised in a row. Does the Ministry of Finance have any analysis at hand as to whether the increase in alcohol excise duty has led to an increase in the secret market? What's the connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U214	Of course we have these tests. The higher the excise and the steeper the rise, the greater the incentive to steal, figuratively speaking. However, if we raise excise duty, and this retail price, more slowly than the overall increase in purchasing power, as we have constantly done in one small exception in the crisis years, there is not much incentive for the recovery of the secret market, the return on this market is low. The second thing is that, in the case of excise goods, we need to contribute to control rather than take the attitude that, since there is a secret market, it is not possible to introduce a tax. It's one such balance game, and we're trying to feel that balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U215	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U216	Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the amendment of the law has two objectives. One is that the country's revenue is increasing by 5% a year, the other is to reduce alcohol consumption. Hence my question: how much do you think alcohol consumption will decrease if we step-by-step increase this excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U217	It can be said that by increasing excise duty on alcohol, we are slowing down the increase in availability.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U218	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U219	Dear Minister, I am asking the same question that I asked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You promised Members of the Commission that you would answer these questions. Have there been comparisons of the rise in alcohol prices in Latvia? After all, the increase in excise duty increases the price of alcohol. For example, in South-East Estonia, comparison with Latvia is important. In Latvia, alcohol is cheaper and there may be a situation where large quantities of alcohol will be imported from a neighbouring country. Have such comparisons been made today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U220	I have some data here, but I'm not going to read all the numbers one by one on this remote. I will give them to the Commission, as many as we have. Latvia has been interested, on the one hand, in coordinating excise policy with each other, and, on the other hand, Latvia's success in controlling the secret market has been worse. They will not be able to increase this price so easily. But the comparison with Latvia is, of course, appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U221	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U222	I will try to put my question in a different way. You have riddled with an increase in state income from year to year. Next year this increase will be 7 million, but in 2016 it will be 60 million euros. What volume have you accounted for this increase in state income? Is the volume the same as this year, or is the base volume decreasing or increasing? If it decreases or increases, what percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U223	We have no reason to predict a significant change in consumption, as this is a slower increase than nominal revenue growth and consumption trends are related to incomes. They're in the model. Thus, in general terms, no significant changes in consumption are foreseen. The increase in excise duty slows down the increase in availability, which can be predicted. But it is clear that food and alcohol consumption in general tends to increase as revenue increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U224	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U225	Dear Minister, My question is about the secret market. Do you have an estimate of what the share of the secret market can now be in the sale of alcohol and cigarettes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U226	I wouldn't risk offering you these bills here. Every time I need this figure, I'm officially asking for a tax assessment. The figures provided are always well different depending on the calculation method. I'm not taking any chances right now. When the distillers talk about it, the secret market figures are very high, we are trying to assess the situation neutrally and soberly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U227	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U228	Good minister! Listening to the answer given to my benchmate, I finally didn't understand one thing. If you have considered that consumption remains the same, then of course the revenue of the state will increase. But in this section on the effect of the law, it is stated that increasing the level of alcohol duty reduces alcohol consumption. Do you expect alcohol consumption to decrease or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U229	You know the minister doesn't write the explanatory notes literally. That's why I've been using the formula in my report and responses to the'stopping the availability of the data'. I think that is a correct statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U230	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U231	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In April this year, the Government of the Republic adopted a decision to increase excise duties on alcohol by 5% per year between 2013 and 2016. But it says next to this that excise duties on alcohol are being increased at the same rate as the overall increase in prices. Am I right to understand that the overall increase in prices has already been programmed by the government until 2016, which is 5% per year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U232	You don't get it right. Firstly, the government does not programme the price increase and controls it from a proper distance. This control is possible to a certain extent, and we have generally gone to that limit. Secondly, excise duty is not the final price, excise duty is a fraction of the final price and its impact on the final price is much lower than the increase in its own rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U233	Dear Minister, Thank you! No further questions. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Monetary Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U234	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity on 17 September this year. During the meeting, the Minister took stock of the draft, with the participation of the Head of the Customs and Excise Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance and the Chief Specialist of the same department as the preparatory members of the draft. The initiators stressed that excise duties on alcohol would increase by 5% per year. An overview was given of how much the state budget would receive as a result of this additional revenue, and it was hoped that this 5% increase would not significantly increase the share of the secret market. Producers are also aware of the draft and think they can manage it. After all, the excise duty on the consumer's price is a part of the price of between 0.6 and 3%. The thinner the product, the lower the price. There was quite an in-depth debate in the Commission. Members of the Commission asked why the law provides for a lower excise duty rate for alcohol of 15.56. Why this rate, while the higher rate is 34.97? It was explained to the applicant that this is due to the fact that some products have different rates per unit. There was a question about the excise policy of neighbouring countries, not only about Latvia, but also about the excise policy of Finland and Russia, because their decisions on excise policy are important to us. It is generally known that we have four times the difference between Finland and Finland: excise duties are four times higher in Finland. On the contrary, in the case of Russia, they are twice as low in Russia. And as the Minister has already said, Latvia is very careful about this, because they have bigger problems controlling the secret market than we do. Members of the Commission expressed concern as to whether we would put ourselves too much in the frame if we were to write alcohol excise policy for four years. Aren't we putting ourselves in too strict a frame, perhaps other proposals are being made? As a result of the debate, the view remained that it would rather be positive if the state were to implement a tax policy that is predictable. This gives producers additional certainty and is in line with the state budget strategy, which is known to be in advance for four years. The same question that was being asked here today: does this 5% increase mean that inflation is being written to us in advance? That is certainly not the case. Members of the Commission were interested in how the increase in excise duty affects consumption. I am not going to go over the answer to the explanation of what the minister was reporting here. However, I would add that the change will certainly have a certain effect on tourism. At the same time, the members of the Commission had information that the Finnish State was also planning to increase excise duty, but 10% for thin products and 5% for strong ones. They looked into why. The explanation was that in Finland these proportions are not quite in place and are now being corrected. There was also a question about the special features of shipping companies. Why are ships taxed differently on the sale of goods consumed locally? We have had this provision in the law for a long time and there is no reason to change it, and it was the position of the initiators of the draft. Due to the fact that the previous increase in excise duty came into effect not from the beginning of the year, i.e. from 1 January but from 1 February, it was asked whether this should not be done now. It was explained to us that this time it did not make any sense, and the Commission agreed. To conclude, the main topics of the debate were different taxation of different alcoholic beverages, the reasons and adequacy of the 5% increase in excise duty, consumer behaviour, excise policy in neighbouring countries. Some members of the Commission expressed concern that the good availability of soft alcoholic beverages of particular interest to children and young people is a problem. It was discussed how young people could be kept out of alcohol. This was, of course, an appropriate consideration. The Commission has taken a consensual decision to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 26 September and to appoint a rapporteur here. The Commission also proposes that the first reading be completed by six members of the Commission, with no votes against and three abstentions. The deadline for amendments could be set at 6 p.m. on 10 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U235	Thank you. You have at least one question. Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U236	Good waitress! I have a question that was also put to the Minister. The Minister replied that consumption would remain the same, but the draft specifically states that increasing the excise duty rate will reduce alcohol consumption. The minister responded beautifully that he did not literally write the drafts and that he used a different formulation when performing. I have a question for you as a Commission rapporteur: does the Commission also not go into sentences and is based on the principle that we do not need to know who exactly has written what into the draft? Is this draft aimed at reducing alcohol consumption in Estonian society or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U237	I think that for the majority of the members of the Commission, the Minister's explanation in the same sense in the Commission was perfectly understandable, and I have to say that I, too, understood it quite well. The Minister rightly pointed out that people's incomes would increase in the coming years, and this is, of course, extremely positive. Wages are expected to rise just as the private sector plans to raise wages and a bit of the state as well. And, as with foodstuffs, alcohol consumption will increase as income increases. Thus, the availability of alcohol will be improved and, above all, this improvement in alcohol duty should be slowed down. But if you have a deeper interest in statistics on alcohol consumption, the advisor to the Committee on Monetary Affairs sent all the members of the Commission an interesting piece of material. This is the market, consumption and losses of alcohol in Estonia, compiled by the Institute of Economics. Yearbook 2011'. It's pretty well-managed. For example, it says that when people's income decreased during the crisis years, alcohol consumption decreased, and so on. It is precisely to hold back on the improvement of accessibility, which is certainly one of the aims of this law, in addition to the need for additional revenue in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U238	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U239	Good waitress! In your presentation, you said that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance who were present in the Committee on Monetary Affairs felt that the entry into force of this law would not lead to a significant increase in the share of the secret market. How much volume does this unimportant growth mean? The Minister also said that opinions on the share of the secret market are different, but it should be about a quarter of the market. Was there any mention of what the representatives of the Ministry of Finance are predicting, how big this unimportant increase in the secret market could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U240	I don't have much more to add. I don't have the results of the research. I guess they're different. Producers usually value the share of the secret market well, the Conjuncture Institute uses its own methodology, the Ministry of Finance has its own methodology. When we are talking about increasing excise duties on alcohol, 5% is the "minimum step" with which to intervene in excise policy. Perhaps 10%, for example, would be a little risky in view of the risk of a recovery in the secret market. But I do believe in the power of the Tax and Customs Board. In addition to what the Minister said, I would like to stress the importance of one step that we took already in 2005. It was the introduction of alcohol tax stamps. This system has contributed quite a lot to the rejection of secret alcohol. Of course, we are also concerned about the secret fuel market, but perhaps tobacco is now an even bigger problem. This secret market is estimated by the Conjuncture Institute at EUR 57 million. The risk here is that, for example, from Russia, tobacco products with Russian tax marks cross the border in places where border surveillance is weaker, not through official border crossing points. It's a risk right now, but, of course, there's always been a booze secret market. The secret market aspect is very important when designing alcohol excise policy. Otherwise, the country might be even bolder, but we really have to take this risk into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U241	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U242	Good waitress! Did you also discuss the issue from the perspective of what the impact of the change could have on our business, our entrepreneurs? In addition to the producers most directly affected, this is likely to also be felt in the tourism sector and in the entertainment business. How could this increase in excise duty affect them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U243	Thank you, a very correct question. We really did handle it a little bit. I can say that I have met producers and other operators and they have said that, of course, they do not like the country raising excise duty. However, they have emphasised that this increase is not excessive, and businesses have even praised the government for the fact that there is now a clear excise policy, of course, if we still approve this law. Excise policy has been set in advance for four years, which gives them certainty. It's very important. This has just been emphasised by the alcohol producers. The tourism sector is certainly affected by this too. However, compared to Finland, Sweden and other countries, we still have a very large difference in prices. And our tourism sector is also strong without a factor in alcohol trade. I hope that this law will not disturb the tourism sector excessively.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U244	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U245	Good colleague! You shed a lot of light on what was asked and what the Members of the Commission thought. But I ask you, as I also asked the Minister: did you not discuss, in connection with the high increase in electricity prices next year, by amending the Act on Excise Duties, that the state is currently taking four times as much electric excise duty as the European Union is asking, and perhaps, by reducing electric excise duty, you could meet people? Did none of the members of the Commission raise such a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U246	Yes, such parallels may be drawn, but we are talking about alcohol duty now, and the Commission also remained within the framework of this issue. I know that this issue has been discussed on other drafts and that there have also been individual drafts to amend the electricity excise duty. Let us be honest, however, the share of electricity excise is relatively small among the components of electricity prices, and if it is reduced, as one of the draft laws proposes, I do not think it will have much effect on the price. Indeed, the share of electricity excise duty in electricity prices is relatively low. As the Minister rightly said, it would rather not have a significant impact on the price, but the state would lose its share.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U247	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U248	The rapporteur from the Commission. I think I need to come and help you. Indeed, the issue of excise duties on alcohol was not discussed because, the week after, you will be able to report on behalf of the Commission on the draft reduction of electricity excise duty initiated by the Central Party Group. But I propose to you: if you come to the Riigikogu speech chair in two weeks' time, do not talk about what you believe, but look at clear calculations showing that lowering the electric excise duty will help to soften the price increase. My question, however, is about alcohol duty. How long will the alcohol duty rates now last, and when will the next increase be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U249	Thank you for coming to help me! Your help is very valuable. Thanks for that. However, the draft states very clearly that the rates will be set for 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. I believe that this is sufficient certainty and that there will be no need to change it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U250	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U251	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! There are obviously certain sins in society that cannot be banned, and in order to keep people away from them as far as possible, something like excise is being used. Now, if we compare different measures with advertising restrictions and any other means, then all of them are the most influential in excise duty. It depends most on how much we can limit availability. It is undoubtedly an important draft in this sense, and it must definitely be stopped at first reading. As incomes grow, the availability of alcohol should remain the same, and I do not think that any of you have the objective of increasing access. What, though, has taken place in Estonia over the last ten years? The same thing has happened: we will either increase this excise duty in the same way for two, three, four or five years. Which means that some products in this market lose less, some more. If we look at consumption, the data from the Conjuncture Institute show that this has affected our market. Alcohol consumption is increasing. For people who have a certain experience in consumption and life, this obviously seems logical in some way. As a result of its 'empirical observations', it is concluded that this could be the case. For years, people who deal with public health have argued against this. They already have a position on excise taxpayers with a certain consumption experience. They believe that there is a greater problem for young people who are just starting to pay this excise duty. They have argued lively on this subject and said that if we continue in Estonia in the same way for four more years, it means, broadly speaking, that the impact of the law on the younger generation is the opposite of what is desired. It works against the objective that we want to achieve in public health. I call on the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu to discuss this draft. I hope that Aivar Sõerd, as the carrier of the draft, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will find a way to talk about it in a slightly wider circle than producers and politicians, and in doing so, it will be based on more than just revenue. All the more so, according to all assumptions, if changes are made to the draft, this will have a positive impact on the revenue of the state budget. This certainly does not have a negative impact on the budget, but, on the contrary, gives a greater revenue side. In the case of excise policy, there are indeed two sides involved, which the Minister mentioned here, and which the questioners asked about vividly. He cannot answer you today whether the entry into force of the bill will reduce or increase consumption. He just doesn't know it. But he replied correctly when he said that changing the excise duty would keep the level of availability more or less the same. In fact, we should think more about the substance of the matter, about who is available and what can be done with excise duties. And not only in terms of public revenue, but also in terms of availability. I'm not one of those people who tend to label this kind of bill. So why don't we talk to people who care about public health here without using any signs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U252	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline of 10 October at 6 p.m. for the submission of 268 amendments to the draft text. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U253	We move to the seventh item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans and the Tax Administration Act 236, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U254	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good ambassadors! We've been waiting. Standing here before you some time ago when we discussed the reform of higher education, it was promised that the study grants, which on a need-based basis should send the reform of higher education, would also reach the Riigikogu. This time has come, and I am pleased to be able to present the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loan granted by the Government to the Riigikogu on 28 May this year. This is a draft, which includes the creation of needs-based learning support for students. As has already been said, this support, which takes into account the student's economic opportunities, is linked to the reform of higher education already approved by the Riigikogu. A few words to explain. The changes adopted on 10 May and applied to students from the academic year 2013 require a greater commitment of the student to studies. If we increase the demand, it is well-founded that if the student needs it, the country will be ready to support him in completing his studies. The current EUR 55 education allowance will gradually be replaced by a need-based education grant of EUR 135 intended to cover the costs of higher education. The current support, which is mainly allocated to higher education institutions, based on the number of students studying in state budget places, reaches 1-6) from students. It amounts to EUR 55 and takes account, in particular, of learning outcomes and 10% of overall economic needs. Instead, the need-based education allowance of EUR 135 will be phased in. This draft law does not concern student loans. Up to EUR 1920 a student loan will remain, and contrary to the complaints that have been raised, the student will retain the full right to work in an appropriate amount in a suitable job. As a basic change, the economic status of the student and his/her family is the basis for awarding needs-based education support instead of basic support based solely on learning outcomes. However, this does not mean that the calculation of learning outcomes is completely abandoned. Firstly, it is a prerequisite for the need-based study grant to be completed each semester in the required volume, and secondly, students studying in good and country-specific areas will be provided with new types of performance and professional scholarships. Students studying in teacher training already have them. These specialized scholarships aimed at the necessary disciplines and also at learning outcomes would make sense to call them scholarships, not study grants, but are also planned to be increased. Another important thought development. Acquiring higher education creates the prerequisites for success in the future life, and it is therefore natural that the student's family participates in supporting learning, and the student also tries to make some contribution. The focus of the proposal is on young people who are disadvantaged by the economic situation of themselves and their families when they receive higher education. The student's family members whose incomes are taken into account when applying for the need-based education allowance shall be deemed to be the parents of a student who is up to 26 years old, the underage siblings and those siblings who receive the student's student's allowance, whether through higher education or vocational education. A student of at least 26 years of age or a younger student who has married or has become a parent shall be considered to belong to a private household and the amount of income of the student, his spouse and children shall be taken into account when determining the allowance. There are different ways of identifying the financial situation, but the draft has chosen a way to make it possible to pay as much of the funding as possible to students without spending a significant part of the resources necessary for the functioning of the system in order to maintain the application processing system and the salaries of applicants. For this reason, data from the Tax and Customs Board register concerning the student's and his family's income in the calendar year preceding the application for the allowance shall be taken into account when determining the need-based education allowance. If these incomes are below the relative poverty threshold of 280 euros per family member in 2011, the student is entitled to the student's education allowance. Based on data from the Estonian Education Information System and the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, 37% of young people who started their studies could receive support during the autumn of 2013. Of course, the question of choice is whether, instead of this relatively low-cost system, which does not take into account special and emergency situations, it would be reasonable to create a scheme similar to the processing of income support applications, which takes account of the exceptions, but also absorbs much more money that could otherwise be paid for study grants. We have heard rhetoric as if the student's life would become difficult overnight with a system of higher education reform and the introduction of needs-based learning support. In my opinion, however, more focus should be placed on what the new system will add to the students and universities. At present, half of the young people studying must pay part of the tuition regardless of how successful or unsuccessful they are. In the future, a successful student will not have to pay for his or her study expenses. In addition, the amount of study grants for full implementation of the system will double: from EUR 8.8 million to EUR 17,6 million. Already in the 2013 state budget, which was adopted yesterday by the government, an additional amount of more than EUR 3.5 million has been earmarked for this purpose. If you adopt this law, you could say that there are prerequisites at the level of the legislator for a comprehensive reform of higher education. Thank you to those who voted in favour of the reform of higher education and who otherwise contributed to the adoption of this law. From the next autumn, we can be sure that every full-time student who meets the admission requirements and successfully learns can study free of charge and, in addition, the student benefits will double especially for those who need it most. Prerequisites are made for this. At the same time, it is clear that the system proposed by the government and the Ministry of Education and Research together with their partners can be improved. There are a number of political choices that are worth arguing about. Let this be the case, for example, with regard to the question of whether grants for studies could be awarded as a single sum and with a single threshold, or whether they could be graduated. There is also a question of how a household can be defined, extended or narrowed, or of how to identify the need for education support. Different solutions are possible. Me and the other people of the Ministry of Education and Research are willing to participate constructively in these discussions. Hopefully, we will be invited home to this law before Christmas, in which case, by the beginning of the new academic year, there will be confidence that needs-based learning grants will come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U255	Minister, there are also questions for you. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U256	Good minister! This is certainly a very sensible and necessary draft, which has been widely influenced by the debate in society, and the students have also come to see us. One question remained, which was of particular interest to me. People have the right to vote at 18, they may be members of the Riigikogu at 21, but when we talk about their benefits, we make them share a small amount of money in the hands of Estonians until they are 26, unless they are married to their parents' household and siblings. Do you think it's normal that we let students be members of a household so high?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U257	I believe that the 26-year-olds have still not reached a very high level and that, despite the formal arguments and contradictions you have pointed out, it is reasonable and practical to assume that parents will also support their children in higher education studies. This is what most families do now, each according to its own possibilities. Who makes larger or smaller transfers, who puts in a bag of potatoes or otherwise helps. This has been the case for decades, if not centuries. And that's what parents do today, still according to the possibilities. To think that this is somehow incompatible with the law is, in my opinion, incorrect. But once again, if more precise criteria are to be debated, it is possible. The draft has also been drawn up in the light of international practice. In many countries, the contribution of parents is expected to be much higher in age and, for example, the German Constitutional Court has discussed the action of a 40-year-old student against his parents, who no longer wished to support his or her long years of study on a former scale. There are different practices and this is indeed the place of political choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U258	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U259	Dear Minister of Education, I have listened to your presentation and answer to the first question, and I have the idea that there is a representative of a conservative party in the chair that you represent a conservative view of the world. In developing this bill, have you also thought about the fact that among young people in Estonia, marriage is not such a conservative step as being very popular? With this bill, I'm sure you'll help the students get married very seriously. Is that the hidden purpose of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U260	Your concern for my conservative outlook is sympathetic to me. I can assure you that such thoughts came to my mind as well. But nothing bad can happen to the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U261	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U262	Good minister! I'm between the ages of 26 and 40 now, so I don't know if I think I'm young or not. But what bothers me is that the draft is based on the assumption that the student's family will be involved in the cost of learning. There is also the possibility of taking student loans,.. the issue of student loans goes through several points of the explanatory notes. Do you really support the same approach for all other subsidies? Does the state ever consider it natural that a citizen is forced to take out a loan to survive?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U263	Let's start with how the Ministry of Education thinks the student can cope during university studies. He could rely on three pillars and, of course, if one pillar is rude enough, then there is no need for others. But in any case, these three pillars in conjunction should ensure that a young person can complete his studies, if not in luxurious, at least under ascetic conditions. These three pillars will then be, first, family or household support, where the student himself will certainly be counted. A small work effort in leisure time also comes in a broader sense than only in financial terms, whether it is a professional job or in some other way. Even washing the claim and wiping the streets is certainly not a humiliating activity for students, rather a respectful activity, because it requires better living in the future and supports society at large. So the family and student's own contribution is reasonable. And it is also reasonable because we know that higher education also has a dimension of personal benefit in addition to the public interest. People with higher education are at higher pay, less unemployment risk, healthier etc. So certainly, a personal contribution to the cost of your education is reasonable. At the same time, state support for those who really need it is very necessary, and I regret that this system has not existed so far. So the introduction of study grants is also justified. And there is a flexible system of student loans between the two, which is far from being needed by all students, but those who need will certainly welcome them. This system does not operate on a commercial basis and is supported by the State for its part by risk mitigation and regulation. This instrument is used in most countries and it is also appropriate in the Republic of Estonia, so it is certainly unreasonable to consider its abolition. I hope you were satisfied with that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U264	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U265	Minister, thank you very much. I find it extremely sympathetic that you see, not one, but two, three and four different pillars, different sources that help the student cope. At times, it seems that a family has been given too much responsibility, especially when the family is not wealthy. But the question is different. You've talked very well about the fact that a little work has to be done. Do you think that the state could contribute more to this by creating better opportunities for young people and encouraging employers who, for example, can apply a quarter of the burden to students in close-disciplinary work? Does the state have opportunities to improve the working environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U266	I'm pretty sure it is. But I'm gonna start branching that line from one end. With the current system, the state actually assumes additional commitments to support young people's studies. It is certainly not possible to treat what was proposed in the draft as having come and put a heavy burden on households. No, we took the burden off students and their families, because at least some families can now count on additional support. Now for job creation. I am very careful about all the steps that the country would artificially take to create jobs. I do not want to become ironic or party-political, but quite from here near the Riigikogu there are examples of steps that may not have worked out best, although I fully understand the desire to create new jobs with social orientation. But perhaps these opportunities still exist and many universities do so in their internal logic, organizing their own administrative and research activities. However, a good example is that when young people do not get a professional job in a laboratory or as an assistant teacher, they work in the cafeteria of American universities as dishwashers and cleaners. Such opportunities should primarily be created by universities in their immediate vicinity, but of course, it is also important to welcome the preference given to professional jobs by students or doctoral students. But I don't think public intervention is the best way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U267	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U268	Dear Minister, Today, there have been several talks about the system of student loans, the possibility of obtaining student loans. Students are also looking forward to changing the student loan system. Do you think this system needs to be modernised? Perhaps we could review the chances of obtaining student loans in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U269	I'm a great modernizer by nature. I would say that if there is time to modernise general education, then surely. But if you use a slightly more serious tone, there is certainly something that could and should be improved, given more student interests and perhaps also by changing the state guarantee system. At present, these obligations are being imposed too much and too quickly on the taxpayer. It should also be ensured that financial institutions assume more responsibility than this relatively well-guaranteed student loan system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U270	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U271	Dear waitress, First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry for coming up with a draft aimed at increasing the amount of education grants twice. I think it's a lot of support for our students. But the question is two-part. The first part: we have spoken in the Commission before that one option would be to hand over the entire fund of education funds to students themselves. What do you think of that? The other side: would you explain why the formula for determining the relative poverty limit for this draft is different from that applied to children's benefits, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U272	First of all, who could share these grants? It is certainly possible to think of other parties, especially universities or student organisations, in addition to the state. But there are two major problems that make it very seriously considered before deciding in their favour. The first is data processing issues. When the state processes data already collected by it, it is one data processor. Should data from the Tax and Customs Board be transferred to third parties, there are a number of practical but also legal and other problems and risks involved. Not to mention it makes the whole system more clumsy. I am therefore quite convinced, however, that national sharing will be more effective and reliable. The second problem relates to the risks of the divider. There are relatively large amounts of money involved, both for the State as a whole and for the beneficiaries, and they must also be shared with legal responsibility and risk, while having a relatively modest resource in terms of equity and competence. We should think very seriously, together with student organisations, whether they really want to bear these risks and ensure this whole accompanying process. Especially in a situation where the system we have proposed is quite automatic, so that the actual discretion at the level of the divider is almost minimised. This is a relatively bureaucratic burden involving bureaucratic and legal risks. If something goes wrong, for example, the computer program does something different than it should, and the money goes to the wrong people, then the person sharing it may at some point have water in the oven. I think that the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu can consider all the pros and cons and explain to potential precedents that grapes may not be as sweet as they seem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U273	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U274	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Your draft explanatory memorandum predicts quite accurately that 37.3% of first-year students should qualify for this support next autumn. This means that their household has an income of less than 280 euros per person. But can you predict how many of them will be left for the second semester if we require them to collect 30 credits, which is hardly possible if you go to work as you offered? How much do you think the bill will go through for those who qualify for support after the end of the first semester?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U275	It is hard to believe that there will be more, but there will certainly be a slight decrease. But I don't want to be more specific. Let's not worry too much! Let's just think that when we went to university ourselves in our own time, it was not even an option for debtors to get a scholarship, and somehow we've even gotten out of this Riigikogu. So this system couldn't have been too bad. However, if you talk a little more seriously, discuss it if it is unfair, then we will change it. But then we'll have to tighten up somewhere, because the taxpayer's wallet isn't rubber. It is such a balance decision. However, in the Committee on Culture, if there are good proposals, they will be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U276	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U277	Honourable Minister of Education and Science! In answer to one previous question, you said that international practice has also been taken into account in the drafting of the draft law. It is wonderful, of course, but it is a pity that not all laws have done so. I will, for example, bring child benefit. In Austria, it is also paid to a young person studying at a university, or rather to his or her family, and the allowance is paid until the age of 24. We're gonna end this at the age of 19. In Austria, the allowance paid to the parent of a student is also considerably higher than that paid to the parent of a minor child. But that's it. The question is: do you know that the conditions for obtaining student loans in banks have changed since this year? I have been approached by single parents. The situation is very complicated. If before it was possible for Grandma or Grandpa to have another guarantor next to his mother or father, then now the line is drawn: it is 65 years old. Thus, a 66-year-old cannot be a guarantor of his grandson's loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U278	I know that. But what about it? This is certainly one issue that we could negotiate with the banks on behalf of the state and then discuss the criteria for these guarantors. Since the ultimate responsibility lies with the state either way or the other, perhaps financial institutions could be more empathetic. But here, I guess the banks have their own arguments. I don't know them now, and that's why I won't be discussing any more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U279	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U280	Dear Minister, This law selects students whose average income per family member is below the relative poverty threshold and states that these young people are entitled to need-based education support. However, if the family is at such a risk of poverty that it receives income support, will this need-based education allowance be counted as part of the family's income, thus losing the family's income support? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U281	Indeed, when preparing the draft, it was assumed that all incomes would be included in the family's income. I know that the Riigikogu has come to the conclusion that it would be reasonable to make certain compromises in relation to child support in this principle. If you are of the same opinion with regard to the payment of education allowance, as an educational person, I can only welcome this principle. But once again, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance have their arguments, and they should also be heard before deciding whether to do it this way or the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U282	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U283	Mr. Minister! To receive needs-based education support and get rid of your parents' wallet, you should get married. Doesn't it seem to you that fictitious student marriages may begin, which doesn't mean they actually live together?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U284	No, I don't have that kind of fear. The greater fear is that there is real life together, but marriage is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U285	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U286	Dear waitress, In your presentation, you said that it would be the easiest way to determine students in need of student support on the basis of the income tax returns of the previous year, that this is probably one of the most reliable sources. But things can change very suddenly. For example, according to last year's declaration, maybe there was no need for education support, but just before the turn of the year or at the beginning of the year, somebody could have worked in the family and this year they would need support. However, last year's declaration shows that it should not. How could such cases be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U287	Of course, decisions taken on the basis of old data may no longer be adequate. It's all understandable. But as I was trying to justify, this system plus is simplicity and cheapness. And cheapness is not in the sense that the taxpayer would save money, but that the money that could be spent on bureaucracy would also reach households in need of support. If this kind of emergency aid is necessary, if that is what you call it, then it is a place of thinking. The point of thinking is that income support currently has a more operational mechanism. Then discuss or discuss together whether needs-based learning grants should really be made more operational and, if so, how to do so in such a way that the costs involved do not increase over time. We don't have a rigid position here. As has already been said, the system has been tried to make it administratively thin so that the maximum amount of money can reach people in need of support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U288	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U289	Dear Minister, Much has been said about this bill for a student up to 26 years of age. You stressed several times today that this has been a political choice. I rather assumed that you were based on research or some kind of statistics, but maybe you have. I am asking whether this decision is based solely on political choice or on some kind of research.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U290	I have never thought that the political choice should be voluntaristic or based on something that has not been confirmed by the data. People have different perceptions and practices and therefore political choice must always be an informed choice. However, no study can provide a definitive answer to the question whether the limit in question must be 26 or 25 or 27 years. In this sense, it is a political choice. But nothing fundamental can come out of these scientific studies. As I have already said, it is well known that families support their children in higher education, and society generally requires this. Most people find it natural that both their children and familiar children can be helped to acquire education. There's gotta be somewhere to draw that line, and right now it's drawn to 26 years, but as I've already said, it's a point of debate. However, I believe that we would deceive ourselves if we went this way, which has been promoted here, to draw the line to becoming an adult, or 18 years old. What would we achieve by doing so? We would actually create artificial new small families or households that might not function functionally as families, and we would simply expand the amount that is needed, as people who are moving around the university with fancy cars would also demand student support. As former rector, I can assure you that there are a certain number of such students and that their ability to submit all kinds of applications is sometimes admirable. In order to avoid such risks, the definition of the household in this way is also justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U291	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U292	Dear Minister, I have an emotional question in some ways. After we met with the students' representatives, there was such an understanding that practically the state side would not listen to them and in general ignore their proposals. That is why they oppose the proposed system. At the same time, you have confirmed on several occasions that you are ready for constructive dialogue, and you have also proposed some issues. Here's the question. Can you tell me what subjects are open to negotiations with students? And second, do you have any firm positions that you can no longer discuss in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U293	As far as negotiations with students are concerned, it is true that some organisations have taken quite a clear political stance on this draft and are vocally opposed to this draft in the public. In fact, there are many more student organisations in Estonia, not just this one and the most proud one. There are also many opinions among students. Perhaps the smartest thing to say is that most student wishes and suggestions have actually been taken into account. Some of the proposals that have not been taken into account are three or four, which, in one sense or another, go back to the simple desire to pay as many as possible and as much as possible. So it's ideal for all students, and at least 1,000 euros, of course, that's what I'mUtrating. But I had to draw that line somewhere. We found that doubling the amount of study grants is a reasonable burden for society to support students. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, we can both reach out to more than one third of the most deprived young people and support them on the scale that allows, quite ascetically enough, but still manage. But, of course, if there were more students who would receive student support, and in a larger amount, I think they would like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U294	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U295	Mr. Minister! As expected, one of the major issues likely will be the age to which a person must be helped by his parents, his family at all, to cover his expenses. It is also humanly understandable. Questions where the state or gender intervene regulatoryly in people's private, family relationships are still very tender. You said earlier that a 40-year-old student has even brought his parents to justice, that the case has been discussed by the German Constitutional Court. You wouldn't happen to know which case the German Constitutional Court ruled in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U296	I'm sorry, but this is a case quite many years ago when I lived and worked in Germany. However, the court settlement was more or less such that, on the one hand, the constitutional judges felt that the family was indeed obliged, in accordance with German law, to support the studies of its descendants, but only to a reasonable extent. However, it requires responsible behavior from the student himself. This student had not reached degrees by the age of 40, and the Constitutional Court found it unreasonable to support the bucvalistic interpretation of the law that the child must be supported for the rest of his life. Using discretion, the court relieved the parents of the obligation to cover the training costs of their mid-life offspring. That was more or less the decision. Well, that's basically the point of consideration, isn't it? In our draft, too, this 26 years is a matter of agreement, not of a god or of a constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U297	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U298	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We have students who are called talented, and they receive real support money today. I have a question in this regard: if this bill is approved in the Riigikogu, what will happen to the talented students and their grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U299	I think we have students who are not only talented but also talented. I have already said that we currently have EUR 55 per month in education support and that it is distributed to quite a large number of young people. In my opinion, this is not very motivating, on the one hand, and it does not support these talented students, on the other. If we develop this system further and set up, in addition to needs-based study grants, performance and professional scholarships to replace the current EUR 55 education grants, they should be much higher. Obviously, the average salary is too ambitious, but the close amount of a fairly average salary could be. But it would really be for the equinoxes, who are not a third or even a fifth, but probably even less. Only they could claim such subsidies. In addition, we should support the various initiatives of civil society, both morally and regulatoryly. After all, there are many scholarships created by private funds, private companies. They are offered by the funds operating at the University of Tartu as well as at Tallinn University of Technology. I know exactly what it is. There are also scholarships from alumni organisations, which are mainly aimed at supporting highly motivated and successful young people. But surely there should also be a national system in the form of much larger scholarships than the 55-euro grants to date. I'm pretty sure they're coming. Their development should be part of the preparatory work carried out by the Ministry of Education and Research in connection with the new financial period 2014 to 2020. They will probably not come in as much as expected by 2013, but by 2014 they should be in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U300	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U301	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. On 25 May 2011, you signed a negative assessment by the Government of the Republic of Estonia on bill No 13 submitted by the Social Democratic Group, the content of which was the continuation of the cancellation of student loans before 1 July 2009 for students who took loans and went to public service. In this assessment, you promised that, as part of the development of the student social guarantee system, issues related to the repayment of student loans would also be addressed. These questions have not been addressed in the draft submitted to us today. What happened to your promise? Will you be dealing with the subject of student loans, and if you do, when?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U302	We've been working on student loan issues, and we're going to get on with it. The promise that this treatment will be reflected in the draft that is being passed on has not been given by me. I'm still trying to make reasonable, not unreasonable promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U303	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U304	Minister, thank you very much. One of the objectives of the higher education reform, as well as the draft, is that students can use the time needed to study more effectively. This complete completion of the curriculum would not exceed very much nominal time, but it would be best if it were included in that time. What do you predict how much better this will get?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U305	First of all, I would like to correct the quite widespread misconception that the Ministry of Education wants, or I personally want, universities to become defence-like institutions, where in a year or four years 100% of what is planned will be fulfilled. That is certainly not the goal. Certainly, those forms of study that are suitable for people working full - time will remain and develop. In that case, however, I believe that it is justified to charge these students part of the tuition fee. They have a job, and it makes sense for them to cover part of their tuition costs with a salary. At present, one tenth to one third of those consciously considering learning as their main job will reach the end of nominal-time studies depending on the university. This figure should certainly improve by half now or twice, I find it difficult to predict. But even if the improvement was 30%, i.e. the average period of study or the time of reaching a diploma would decrease from the current six-seven years to, for example, five-six years, it would be a huge saving. It saves resources, saves time for young people. They're coming into the labour market early. So increasing the effectiveness of studies is not just a 'technical' goal. It is in the public interest as well as in the private interest as well as in the interests of universities, because the whole process simply takes less resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U306	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U307	Good minister! I would continue on the subject of Helmen Hunt, which, as it does not exist, but, at the same time, there is a link to the current issue. I am thinking of the restriction imposed by the banks that the guarantor must be younger than 65 years. I believe that our Commissioner for Equality has something to say on this issue. But when does the ministry or government plan to sit at a table with the banks to discuss this problem? Because apart from single parents, unemployed parents are also, and often grandmother-grandfather is the only one who can bail out student loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U308	Good questioner! You're gonna bully me with 65 years of age. I said quite clearly that this is a subject that should be on the negotiating table between the government and the banks. By my better knowledge, September is the time when experts from the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance should put a memo on the table for ministers how far they have come. The issue of guarantee is part of this package. But when this proposal for a legislative amendment comes, it will be very difficult for me to say. I'd like to be quick, but it's the same as usual.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U309	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U310	Minister, thank you very much. What amounts are foreseen in the 2013 budget approved by the government yesterday for the payment of results grants? You also mentioned them in your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U311	Performance grants and professional scholarships are not the subject of this draft and therefore I do not have them at my disposal. I'll let them know outside the hall after I find them. Trying to answer here, I'd just look at the ceiling and probably not give you a reasonable answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U312	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U313	Minister, thank you very much. Currently, 40% of young people studying in public training orders receive student support, or almost 20% of the total student population. It took EUR 8.8 million in 2011, and you said that this amount would double when the new system was implemented. As the amount of study grants generally doubles, simple arithmetic says that on average about 20% of students would receive this new study grant. Did I do that simple arithmetic thing right? And when I did, what happens to the 17% of students who really need support, but who do you only count on in the first semester?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U314	Well, first of all, I suppose every man's piece of work stays on his own conscience. I'm not going to appreciate your work and fix it. I have no reason to doubt the work done at the Ministry of Education and Research, and the Ministry of Education and Research is also responsible for these figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U315	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U316	Dear Minister, I am pleased that, in addition to family support, needs-based education support and student loans, scholarships have once been mentioned in this Chamber. The basis for granting scholarships is that we have put in place a reform of higher education that has been launched. You don't have to forget that. I would actually put this need-based education support in the last place in the first place, not so much talking about it, but it is certainly necessary. However, in order to receive it, the study programme you are studying must be completed 100%. You said it could be brought down a little bit, some kind of rotation. Would you like to enlighten the large hall of thought that has been involved? Why is such a limit set for the completion of the curriculum?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U317	There's nothing wonderful about it. If we take the school course down to a lower level, then more people will just qualify for the study grant and then much more money will be needed. If there is as much money as it has been received from the taxpayer, it must somehow be shared and some criteria laid down. There are no good ideas as to what these criteria should be. If it is possible to introduce different, let's say, quality criteria alongside the quantum criterion, even though this nominal-time completion of the curriculum also includes a quality component, and it is not just a quantity, then we will discuss it in the Committee on Culture. I know that students have proposed a limit of 85% or 75% of the curriculum. You can pull it down somewhere, but in that case, you have to see where we're going to tighten up. It's like a double-edged sausage or a lever rule you win in force, you lose your way in length. That's how I was taught.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U318	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U319	I will return to the age limit from which the child is no longer a child. It was very interesting to hear you talk about the German Constitutional Court's ruling. I realized this way that if we try to place this age limit in Estonia or in Estonia, either where the age limit for adulthood is under other laws or in some other place, then in the German Code there is probably no age limit at all. It's just that parents have to support their offspring's studies. Would it not be wise for us to follow the example of Germany and to resolve, through the precedents of the court, the question of where it is appropriate and justified to support a person at a certain age by the family and what obviously is not? Maybe the court precedent would settle this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U320	This thought development is very sympathetic to me. I think that in many cases, our laws have gone too far in the way of a formalist and positive approach, and sometimes common sense tends to run into trouble with them. All kinds of jock schemes will come into play and other problems will arise. Indeed, such a normal legal approach, supported by precedents, would make sense on a number of issues. Whether specifically on this issue, I doubt. I'm afraid the mess will get too big. But it won't stay behind me. If this idea is developed fertilely in the Committee on Culture and throughout the Riigikogu, then this change will certainly not remain behind me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U321	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U322	I would like to clarify the second part of my first question, which was not answered, because I put two questions together. What about the calculation of the relative poverty threshold? Why is the formula for calculating the relative poverty limit for setting student benefits one and for determining child benefits the other? Why can't it be determined on a uniform basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U323	I don't have a good answer. I've heard the arguments of both the ministry and the government, but I don't know for sure. I wouldn't pick a side here. The approach to link this limit to a certain percentage of the average wage makes sense. But you can also use a different logic. This, again, is a subject that I would not push very much with my understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U324	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U325	Dear Minister, I'm apologizing in advance, I know that's already been asked in the hall today. But I also know that the answer was not understood. So let me ask you again, and very clearly: is education allowance considered as an income when determining income support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U326	The draft has been drawn up in the understanding that it is included in income when determining income support. It is based on the principle that all incomes are taken into account when determining income support. As has already been said, a compromise has been found in this Chamber regarding the debate on children's benefits, which can, in principle, also be applied to the draft we are debating today. Decide, I can only intervene in this debate to the extent that I can confirm: if education grants improve the situation of households, then I am only pleased about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U327	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U328	Minister, I have a very practical question. The subject is the return of student loans for people in the public service. I'm not going to discuss who said what. Oh, my God! We have a practical matter to resolve, we have a draft in the procedure, the first reading of which has ended. Today you said you were working on it. What are we supposed to do? It would be easier for us if the minister today told us by what date he'd come to any conclusion, any decision, whatever proposal. Please, specify.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U329	What can I promise you? You know that the decision concerning the cancellation of student loans for public service employees or people who have entered the public sector in general has been taken on two grounds or for two reasons. The first reason is that this deletion would create unnecessary advantages for the public service compared to the private sector in selecting employees. Such public service privileges are not justified by public law. It would not make sense in the wider sense, it would distort the labour market. This position can and can not be accepted. In time, it was decided in the same way, and later it was decided differently. This is a political choice and I would not argue for one or the other solution. The second reason was related to the issues of the balance of the state budget. When looking at how public funds could be saved in the state budget, it was found that this could be done by giving up this student loan from a certain point of view. This is a budgetary decision. Once again, it can be argued whether it was justified or not, whether its regulation should be restored or not. There are currently no such proposals in the government or in the ministry, nor can I allow the Ministry of Education and Research to present such a proposal to the government. But every time we discuss student self-sufficiency, their motivation, this is the subject of one argument on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U330	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U331	Minister, thank you very much. You didn't want to answer my previous question, but I actually asked you about the calculations of the Ministry of Education that you wanted to be responsible for. On the question of Mr Allik, you did not want to say how much of the students will receive student support during the second semester, but if you look at the amounts you have planned, it turns out that you have calculated a certain number and, according to my arithmetic, this figure is 20%. What is it, really? I'll give you a chance to answer. My second question, however, concerns that, in September 2011, when you introduced the principles of a need-based system of education grants, you said that it was planned to maintain existing grants for students with special needs and that needs-based support for learning was also targeted at them. I can't find students with special needs in this bill. How do we plan to improve their coping with the new system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U332	First of all, it's a percentage question. According to your rations, 20 percent came in. I say to you once again: I do not pronounce right or disapprove of your revelations. I didn't do this kind of adjustment, but I can tell you that these uncertainties are inside this model for perfectly understandable reasons. The reliability of such operations depends on a wide range of parameters. For example, we do not know how many students are now going to study eagerly and perform their own studio with a normal age, even though they previously completed 75% of the curriculum. We do not know how many students who collected one or two credits per semester will fall out. Under the new law, they become externs and the rights and benefits for these students do not extend. So let's trust this piece of work that we've been putting before us and design the whole system according to the practical decisions that students and universities make during this reform. One thing I can tell you is that this boat won't go around now. And if anyone complains that the situation of students is getting worse, some of our opponents consistently claim that because of this law, students will be permanently starved, I say to you, good opponents: if twice as much money makes the situation of students worse, then this money can be reduced twice. But for the rest of the students who think that twice as much money is still twice as much money, I think the new system will come in handy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U333	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U334	Mr. Minister! Thank you very much for your excellent presentation. I have a question about terminology. In fact, three or four minutes ago, you used a term like I'm sorry, but I'm quoting 'jopski'. You don't often hear words like that in this hall. I have a question: can you explain what language that word comes from and what the root of that word means in the original language?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U335	I guess you can hear everything in this hall. In that sense, this hall is a special place that everyone here hears everything and can draw any conclusions they need. But if I really did say something like that, think about what I meant by it. I will not add any additional comments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U336	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U337	Minister, thank you very much. When discussing this study grant law, there have been quite a number of fundamental points of view here, including yours as a minister. I find it quite interesting that your claim that twice as much money has been provided for grants. That is why my question, which remained in the Committee on Culture. Of course, in the case of need-based education support, you cannot say exactly how much money is needed. Have the basic rules for the calculations concerned developed in the budgetary process according to the budgetary possibilities and the conditions have been established accordingly? Or have more general analyses been carried out before discussing the financial possibilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U338	Let's just say it's a classic egg and chicken problem. Of course, at the very beginning, even before all kinds of research and statistics, there is some kind of hunch of how many households there could be, where this need is great. After all, we read in the paper how many unemployed people we have, how many children in poverty and families in need. This ratio should be between 15 and 20% and 30%. That's the background. On this basis, some preliminary resource estimates have also been made and it has been calculated that if the percentage of households in need of education support is as high as the amount of money might be needed. In the course of the conclusion of the Coalition Agreement, certain amounts have been reserved, which were due to take effect from 2015. We knew that reform would require needs-based learning support. In the budgetary process, we tried to find the money from next year and we did. So we actually started implementing the coalition agreement two years earlier than the agreement. It wasn't just that, but we agreed on the same amounts that were discussed at the time. It is certainly also an input to double subsidies in full implementation of the system. After all, we politically perceive that if the money is even twice as much, it is twice as good. Three times as much would be better, but the budget limits are coming up. But all these adjustments, all these tables are very large, well-lettered and well-complicated. Very broadly, it can be said that every third or fourth household should have access to support, and that is what we are based on. However, according to how the students will behave, the system can be adjusted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U339	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U340	Dear Minister, You see, for students who are generally well-educated, but who have poor incomes, I think that it is more or less a matter of whether the allowance reaches their family in the form of income support or education support. If the amount you get stays more or less the same, they won't win anything in the end. If I read this bill in this particular form, although you have also hinted at how you could change it, even more boldly, but all right, I see...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U341	Then I'd have to change parties. That's not the point I've had.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U342	Dear Minister, You have no right to interfere with the question of a member of the Riigikogu due to our rules of procedure and rules of procedure. Please respect the rules in force in this House. I'll give Eiki Nestor at least 40 seconds. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U343	I would like to thank the President for his help. I know how complicated this problem really is. This complexity is starting with the concept that's been written in here. The positive side of the bill can be that the number of registered marriages is increasing. The fact that some students may not remember their husband's name in a month's time is an outsider. I don't see why it's the concept that needs to be followed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U344	I'm sorry my reaction was so sudden and emotional! But I'm not gonna change my view of the weather on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U345	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U346	Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestor! Please respect the Minister if he answers the question. Let's keep going. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U347	Thank you for your support, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U348	The score is one: 1.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U349	Of course, it is worth discussing the subject of income support, need-based education and child support. I will say once again that there will be no obstacle on my part to the solution that education allowance will not be taken into account when determining income support. It doesn't contradict my view of the weather. But of the students, I'm a little better than a good questioner. They do all sorts of things in college, and some maybe for some reason someday they won't remember who they married last night, but I don't believe in our students. I wouldn't scare either the minister or the delegates or the students themselves. They will probably be able to manage their private life responsibly, regardless of the education allowance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U350	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U351	Good minister! You have said quite clearly here that you would rather listen to individual students and students' representatives from different universities than to their umbrella organisation. But this umbrella organisation has made it very convincingly clear that 135 euros in the city of Tartu, for example, cannot cope if you live in a dorm. You have been rector of the University of Tartu for quite a long time and are certainly familiar with the prices of Tartu. How would you assess today: is it possible to manage EUR 135 if the family is unable to support the student?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U352	Coping with 135 euros in Tartu would be a huge feat. Maybe someone can, but I don't think it makes any sense. As soon as I name a number, there's a lot of trouble in the house again, but I'm not afraid of this fight so much that I wouldn't dare say any reasonable assumptions. There are people who say that 300 or 400 could be the limit. He's gonna get caught in there somewhere. We know that the minimum wage is much lower, but we also know that a young person has not had an apartment in his or her life and that his or her needs are objectively greater than those of adults or those who have already reached retirement age. So between EUR 300 and EUR 400 per month, this amount could amount. I already said that this amount should consist of three pillars. First, household allowance, as much as there is. However, if the income is about 280 euros per household member, the average amount could be 100 euros. If the family really has nothing to give, there is a situation in itself. Perhaps the student himself can add some work income. Secondly, we will take the EUR 135 and put it in there. And then there's the student loan you're entitled to. If this is some sort of coincidence of bad circumstances, that there are no guarantors and that there is no capacity for work, that there is zero income, then a critical situation can indeed arise. But once again: EUR 135 is not enough and nobody thinks it is enough. In addition, work income must be self-indulgent and student loans must be paid. And even if it doesn't come together, even if it could be EUR 400, then there is a really special situation, the best law doesn't offer a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U353	Dear Minister, I thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Priit Sibula, member of the Committee on Culture, will be asked to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U354	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister has already said that this draft is in the process so that the reform of higher education can be implemented as foreseen. As the draft was discussed at length in both the Minister's presentation and the questions-answers, I will give a brief overview of how we have dealt with this issue in the Committee on Culture. To begin with, most of the issues discussed have also been covered by the Commission in the context of the first reading. For the first time, the draft law amending the Study Grants and Student Loan Act and the Tax Administration Act was discussed on 28 May when the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aaviksoo, Adviser to the Ministry of Education and Research Sille Uusna and Head of Higher Education Department of the same Ministry Mart Laidmets also attended the meeting. One of the most important issues raised here today was the requirement for 100% completion of the curriculum when determining needs-based learning support. It was discussed that maybe we could move this line down a little bit. The second topic was the link between income support and education allowance, on which the Minister raised the right number of responses. The third issue that I considered most important in the session was the same 26-year-old issue, i.e. how long parents have to support their children. For the second time, the draft was discussed in the Committee on Culture on 4 June this year. At this meeting, it was decided by consensus that the Commission representative would be the speaker in the procedure and reporting of the draft. For the third time, we discussed the draft on 17 September. Eimar Veldre, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Estonian Student Unions, Monika Maljukov, Vice-Chairman and Social Policy Advisor Marleen Pedjasaar were then invited. Liina Hirv, Chairman of the Board, and Helena Veldre, Adviser to Public Policy, represented the Estonian Student Association. Aivar Haller, member of the board of the Estonian Parents' Association, and Ivar Tröner and Meelis Resev were also present at the meeting. The representative of the Student Association considered the need-based study grant as such necessary and reasonable and praised both the initiators of the draft and the Commission for it. However, their main and additional proposal was that the support should be variable. They had not yet decided among themselves whether it should be set with ten or five euros or even with the euro, but it should be based on the student's real needs. And this variable allowance should amount to about a minimum wage. The second topic raised by the Estonian Student Association was a more flexible definition of the household. That's what we've been talking about here today. The most important issue for students was also related to the concept of household. The proposal is not to bind a 26-year-old student to a family if he manages independently. It was also thought that the requirement to complete 100% of the curriculum could be brought down. The requirement could be 85% of the full volume of the grant, which would be sufficient to apply for needs-based education support. In their view, the rate of support could be up to EUR 290. The additional proposal, which did not directly concern this draft, was to clean up the student loan system. In the case of student loans, the main problems were highlighted in terms of its difficult availability, and this issue went through the hall today. Instead of two guarantors, they think they could demand a guarantee from the state. The repayment of debt should be more flexible and there should also be a system of reimbursement of student loans. Young people also wanted the regulation of student loans to apply to students who have entered before 2013. The Estonian Parents' Association considered the increase in family responsibility to be the biggest problem, while in their view there is no scheme of support for this responsibility. The basis should be based not on the family, but on the household, and the benefits should be as weighted as possible. The draft provides for their distribution on the basis of a uniform distribution principle. All these issues were discussed at length and in depth in the Commission, but specific positions were not, of course, shaped before the first reading in the large Chamber. This work is yet to be done by the Commission. The Commission has also addressed other committees. We already had the position of the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs on the table at that point. The Committee on Legal Affairs had proposed, which we have taken into account. We called on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to examine this 26-year question whether it is constitutional. If we know that, we can essentially move on to the subject. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu had also made its assessment. It was also discussed in the Commission whether the whole system should be central, as currently foreseen in the draft, or whether decision-making could be as close as possible to students. At its meeting on 17 September, it was decided by consensus to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session today and that the first reading be closed. The deadline for amendments could be s. a October 12th at 10 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U355	Thank you! You have at least one question. Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U356	Good waitress! I would like to ask more specifically about your report on the part where you spoke about the need-based administration of education grants and the question whether it should be centrally shared in one place or whether this responsibility and task could be distributed in some way. How did the Student Association view the proposal for a division of responsibilities? Did there also come up with different positions within the Student Association?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U357	As far as I can tell, there are really different views among students. The Student Association that we had in the Commission said that they were based on the understanding of the draft law that the processing of study grants would be central. However, I had the impression that some associations with universities were ready to support other solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U358	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U359	Good waitress! Here's the question. Maybe I missed that information, and you told the Legal Affairs Committee, too, but I don't think you did. You were talking about the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legal and Analytical Department. But you also made an inquiry to the Committee on Legal Affairs, asking for an opinion on the 26-year age limit laid down in this draft. In fact, you asked how it interacts with our family law, and our answer was that it didn't interact absolutely. We actually warned that it is not good to use different concepts and different family, age and other boundaries in different laws. Did you discuss it, and when you discussed it, what position did you reach?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U360	I thought I mentioned it once, but if I didn't mention it, then really, we had this issue in the Commission. As you pointed out, we discussed this and, as you proposed, we addressed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs argued that they had not been able to verify the constitutionality of the provision, but pointed out that the different laws differ from one law to another and that the two things are not compatible. At the same time, it was confirmed that this constitutionality should be checked and that this is what the Commission is doing. We look forward to the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U361	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please contact Riigikogu speech chair Representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U362	I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U363	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U364	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Students and their parents are watching good Riigikogu proceedings! Today, for the first time in the Riigikogu, we are discussing further support for students in a situation where this amount of additional support is also available as real money in the state budget for next year. In addition to existing study grants, needs-based study grants will be implemented from 1 September 2013, amounting to EUR 3.6 million in the state budget. The total volume of study grants will increase to 17 million euros when the total amount of study grants is applied. Quite rarely, some support is doubled. On the basis of the current economic support of around €56, this double increase can be confirmed. How exactly, how best and fairest to give support to students from the state budget, the joint work of this decision will be before us in the next weeks in the Riigikogu and the Fatherland and Res Publica Association will be very grateful in advance for any constructive amendment or addition that will help us to fulfil our election promise even better as a result of the joint work. Let's take a look at the bigger picture. Much of the questions that have been heard today in this Chamber, which has been discussed in the Commission and also in the social networks, have in fact been based on the way in which family, child, adult child and state subsidies interact. Together, let us remember what the big picture looks like in general. The birth of the child and the helpless age, when the parent is needed next to the child 24/7, are supported by the birth allowance and the parental benefit should, of course, be much more flexiblely organised, as well as the child care allowance. As soon as the child starts wearing his or her neck and exceeds his or her first educational threshold, i.e. he or she can pot himself, he or she enters the educational system: first the nursery, then the primary school as the only compulsory school, then the upper secondary school or vocational school or upper secondary school plus the vocational school, which is already a much smarter choice. In any case, the child receives child benefit from the state until he or she reaches the age of 19. All children are supported in the same way with universal support, and families with lower incomes also receive help to cope. In addition to direct family benefits, tax money is also redistributed as services. The cost of kindergarten is only a small part of the family's cost; in comprehensive school, only clothes and a block flute should be purchased by the parent under the law, as well as lunch in the upper secondary school. The parents of a young person who goes to vocational education are particularly relieved to sigh, for in vocational education, the state really covers all the necessary expenses for the student, figuratively speaking, all but clothing and toothbrushes. The burden on university students' parents so far was much harder. Half the students have paid and are still paying tuition for the last year. There were no free lunches. Of course, the student will no longer receive any child benefit. The first major reduction in the burden on families with children has already been passed by law. It is possible to study at all stages of education in Estonia without tuition fees. The only exception is kindergarten. Free higher education has included 6.1 million euros in state budget expenditure, which goes specifically to implement free higher education, plus an additional 4 million euros for universities to increase base money. We can say that these EUR 10.1 million will make it possible to reduce the tuition obligation for families. This is very necessary, but not enough. As an additional family allowance, according to the draft under discussion, students' allowance is added to families in a more difficult situation, which is essentially a new additional financial support to support families' livelihood. In my proposal, this new allowance should certainly be separated from the current income support, in other words, not taken into account as a new allowance for the family's income when determining income support for the family. Similar logic was already successfully used by the coalition for new additional child benefits. Thus, new, additional child benefits are not taken into account as income when determining the payment of income support. Otherwise, there would be a situation that Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, has already brought to the attention of the members of the Committee on Culture: because of the student receiving education support, his family living in another city may be deprived of income support, who is in great need of income support and who could not be sustained by a student studying away with their 135 euros. That's really not the point. There are a number of points in the draft that still need to be discussed, but this has to be done rapidly so that the necessary money can reach students from the next academic year. In addition to the problems that have arisen today in this Chamber, which was also mentioned by the Estonian Parents' Association, who was actively involved in the debate, a few more examples. For example, should the maintenance obligation be extended to 26 years of age if both parents' incomes are taken into account? Would it not be more appropriate to use the household model that is the basis for the payment of income support so far to define the family? Could you really reduce the amount per student or grant exponentially so that more students can receive support? I stress that, compared to the current limit of relative poverty, let alone the limit of absolute poverty, the draft envisages this support for a much wider circle of students. The family circle is not based on an international definition of relative poverty in the case of need-based learning support, but actually introduces a new definition. For example, there is a mother and two children in the family. If the older child is a student and the younger child receives an additional EUR 19 child benefit, then this very good family student would qualify for additional student financial support even if the mother's gross salary is up to EUR 1050 per month, which is not so small. In comparison, the current economic support is 55 euros at the University of Tartu, for example, and in September the university recommends not to apply for it for students whose average household income is up to 150 euros per month. The difference is noticeable. In response to Lauri Luige so much that the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association have submitted a draft in which the child is considered to be a full member of the family, i.e. he or she is not counted as a member of the family with a lower coefficient. I would like to thank all those who have already tabled their proposals, and I would like to have academic and fruitful discussions, which will really lead to better helping the weaker people from the next academic year. The Isamaa and Res Publica Association also think that if students can manage 30 academic credits in a semester, representatives of the people should also be able to cope with this bill in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U365	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the negotiations. Please ask Aadu Musta, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U366	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As has been mentioned many times in today's debate, in the spring when we passed the so-called Free Higher Education Act, it was only the first half of the case and we will get a comprehensive overview of the reform of higher education when it comes to the law that we are currently dealing with. Its pros and cons, potential threats and doubts have already been repeatedly mentioned today. When all doubts are summarised, it has been said that the country obviously wants to make as many students as possible happy with this reform, spending as little money as possible. Humanly, this principle is understandable, and no one thinks we're swimming in a pile of money. Since the working day has already torn into the evening, all kinds of funny parallels come to mind. In 1938, or the 38th year was still coming, Russia discussed that all officers who have served long and well should be given a gold medal. These people were looking forward to it. When the time came, they got the bronze medal. Comrade Vorošilov had explained to the generals that, look, gold was promised, but gold was needed elsewhere, and the bronze medal is also a very good thing. It's just that Comrade Stalin, with as little money as possible, wanted to make as many generals and other officers as possible happy. Tukhachevsky said that if Comrade Stalin wants to make someone very happy, only nine grams of lead will be shot in the head, and the whole nation will rejoice. I know who got shot later! But I come back to Estonia's problems. I think that Estonia's problems are not easier, but more complicated than the nine grams of tin. The point is that Estonia's alternatives are very different. There is an Estonian 2020 development plan. According to the black scenario, Estonia will have about 850000 inhabitants and all markets south of Tallinn will be declining markets for Europe. Smart people have largely found jobs and applications in other countries and feel pretty good about themselves. According to the second, alternative and positive scenario, which we have always been told about, Estonia will be a rich educated country in Europe in 2020. We are viewed with respect, and we are visited to study. Obviously, the reality is somewhere between, and it is the decisions that we are making today, also in the area of financing higher education, that depends on which direction we are heading. Whether our young people get a dignified education in their home country or whether they have to look elsewhere for their place. Perhaps in Norway, for example, you can live better with some kind of scholarship or in another, third, fourth, fifth, sixth country. The key question is that this draft does not lead to a differentiation of wealth in education. The family can support the student, but we know that there are more and more families in Estonia who cannot support them. The problem is whether higher education is a privilege for wealthy people or whether another alternative is being realised, which has always moved Estonia forward. It is that they are able to appreciate the potential of the entire nation and the ability of every human being to develop creatively. That's the point of balance. As far as today's debate is concerned, I was repeatedly nostalgic in favour of the Minister's speech when he spoke of student employment. Once upon a time, I was the best shovel guy toss the rubble, and five years ago, I was pretty good at it. Although, yes, times are a little different now. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U367	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U368	By the way, these disputes, how long the family must support the student, have been in Estonian case law. It was in the 19th century when the other heirs sued a von who was 63 years old and got a big share of the inheritance as long as he went to university. Until he was 63 years old, he went to college every year, but he didn't study and pass the exams. But it's a separate story. As for the fact that we have students who are trying to circumvent all kinds of rules, of course they are trying to do so. I remember when I went to college, some of them, when they needed a graduation suit, applied for marriage. So the newlyweds' shop got the graduation suit and later was left unmarried. Young people today have moved on. The Centre Party discussed this draft, which is on its way towards us, and considers that the objective is actually one for everyone: to improve the situation of students. This draft is certainly one step in this direction and the opposition's aim is now to look at where there are weaknesses and to speak out as a constructive critic. Several questions we received today were answered, but, you know, there are still questions. And if the Minister is indeed willing to come to the opposition parties to discuss the matter, then our views will certainly be getting closer and we will probably find a better version of the current draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U369	Thank you. A procedural question, Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U370	This may not be a procedural remark, but Mr Black said that Marshal Tukhachevsky protested against this bronze medal in 1938. This year he couldn't do it because the year of Tukhachevsky's death is 1937.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U371	Yes, Comrade Tukhachevsky protested when he was still alive, after which he was shot.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U372	I would like to thank both the procedural questioner and the official who came to help! We're actually in the middle of a negotiation session. Evgeni Ossinovski, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U373	Good manager, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U374	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U375	Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on two small but fundamental questions. There's been talk of one, almost no talk of the other. First of all, I would like to talk about the formal part of the draft on good legislative practice and then on the substantive problems of need-based learning grants from a socialist perspective. The Minister of Justice will, of course, tell us tomorrow about developments in justice policy. This same minister confirmed a year ago that, under his leadership, Estonia's legislation would become more thoughtful and consensual. This consensus has become quite a joke during my parliamentary term, but a thoughtful thought could still be expected, especially in a field such as higher education, which has an impact on the development of society as a whole over several decades. We have been able to talk repeatedly about the draft university law in the spring proceedings here, even after the President declared it unconstitutional. We also expected a more constructive approach with regard to the draft on education grants. The Ministry of Justice categorically announced on the coordination round that it would only coordinate the draft if the substantive comments were taken into account. However, the coordination table shows that the Ministry of Education did disregard most of them, and I do not understand why the Minister of Justice did not speak at the government meeting, where the draft was approved, to stand up for good legislative practice. But we can ask him tomorrow. Now, more specifically. In my absence from political slogans, I would quote the bill itself. On page 2 of the explanatory memorandum to the bill, we read: 'If above the poverty line it is natural to assume that a student can cover his or her living expenses with the support of parents and student loans, a student with incomes below the poverty line will also need a state contribution to support learning. " This is a very reasonable and beautiful principle. But now I quote the following page of the explanatory memorandum: '... it has also been taken into account that parents support their offspring even if their income falls below the relative poverty line'. It was unclear to me which of these drafts was then taken into account: can parents living below the poverty line also support their student children or not? The same page states that it is likely that up to 26 years of age the student will devote himself or herself to studies, not go to work and receive basic income and support from parents. On the other hand, 37% of students whose households live below the limit of relative poverty are said to be unable to support them by their parents. Now, however, it turns out that this should be one of the main incomes. If you look at another document, namely the 'Eurostudent IV' study referred to in the explanatory memorandum, you will find out what the basic income of our students is. In the younger age group, students up to 24 years of age have 21% of the main income of state benefits, 30% of the wage they earn and 44% of the family allowance. What the Ministry means when it claims that the main income is likely to be parent support is not quite clear. And there are, of course, more examples. But why am I talking about this? Indeed, when the Social Democrats presented their draft reform of the study grants, which the coalition voted down in the spring, we were accused of sowing money from the plane, political propaganda, etc. Friends, we talked about one very simple thing: given the situation of students and their families, the EUR 135 education grant does not provide sufficient state support to enable all talented students to cope with 100% of the curriculum. If the government wants to argue with us, the draft explanatory memorandum must include its own calculations, which reflect the livelihoods of families, student incomes and the necessary costs. This has not been done adequately in the draft, although this study 'Eurostudent IV' provides us with these data. Without analysis, it is claimed that student support, student loan, two-month work and the support of parents living below the poverty line provide a total 'income, the amount of which gives the opportunity to devote themselves to studies even without full-time work'. What calculation has led to this? Has it been analysed whether the planned needs-based learning support solves the coping problems of all student groups? Are there also those whose families receive income support? Are they special needs students too? Do those whose families live just a little over the limit of relative poverty and those who, for example, do not receive the necessary credits during one semester? These questions are likely to be answered in the negative. I do not quite understand what we are discussing here at all, if the government did not agree with our draft and the amounts mentioned in it, but has not carried out a proper analysis itself, or if so, does not agree to publish the results to the members of the Riigikogu. As my questions showed the Minister today, the Minister did not want to say how many students will receive this support according to their calculations. And now, briefly, from the contents. There's not much new here. The Social Democrats are extremely frustrated that, compared to the principles of study grants published in September 2011 by the Ministry of Education, which stated that education support should not be included in social benefits and that 100% of the curriculum should not be completed in order to apply for it, both sensible principles have been expelled from this draft. This further narrows this already small range of beneficiaries of a small amount of education support. In doing so, those who need this help will be deprived of their most. The requirement to complete 100% of the curriculum will lead to a situation where a student who is a poor family and who does not receive 30 credits in one semester will first have to pay for his or her studies and, secondly, will lose his or her education allowance. How can you continue to study at a university in such a situation? The aim of the draft is, as we know, to provide higher education for students from poorer families. The Ministry of Education has said in the explanatory memorandum and elsewhere that it should apply for income support. Perhaps the Minister of Education knows how to recommend to students this municipality or city government where you can apply for income support to cover tuition fees? The second principle decision is to include education grants at the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the amount of income for determining income support, although the original draft provided for otherwise. After all, this means that in the case of the poorest families receiving income support, a young person cannot go to university in any way. In principle, two approaches to study and other grants are possible. Social Democrats are generally in favour of universal support, as stated in our draft grant for education. They always reach all those in need and are extremely easy to administer. Another option is to create a needs-based system. This can certainly be done sensibly, but its effective functioning requires a large administrative resource so that the sums can reach the real ones in need. It is only in my opinion that the principle of equal treatment laid down in Article 12 (1) of the Constitution can be guaranteed. There's no third way. The needs-based system is, in principle, always expensive. In the context of this draft, I would, of course, also refer to the fact that it is not possible to grant education grants on the basis of income data that are 9 to 12 months old, in accordance with the principle of fair and equal treatment. These are just a few observations on the content and quality of this draft. The Social Democrats will, of course, propose the corresponding amendments. One thing is clear: in this form, we cannot support this draft in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-26_U376	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 236 amendments on 12 October 2012 at 10 a.m. The first reading is closed and the seventh item on the agenda is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 6.25 p.m.
