ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-17_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will start the 15th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-17_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and of the 17 other members of the Central Party Group, I would like to pass on an inquiry to the Prime Minister. Its content is the future of the Nord Stream pipeline. In an inquiry, we write that the German-Russian gas pipeline Nord Stream AG has started research to determine whether two more pipelines could be built in the Baltic Sea from Russia to other Europe. According to the company, the possibilities of increasing gas supplies to the EU and securing gas supplies to the extent of the current agreement will be explored. The first two side-by-side Nord Stream was introduced in November 2011, the installation of the second pipeline has been completed and is currently being prepared for its introduction. If this is done in the second half of 2012, the total capacity of the two pipelines will be 55 billion cubic metres. Estonia has so far been excluded from the Nord Stream project, as in 2007 the Government of the Republic did not accept Nord Stream AG's request for permission to study the Estonian economic zone. According to the information provided in the application for a study permit, Nord Stream AG wished to carry out geophysical and geotechnical studies and visual surveys and to take sediment samples in the Estonian economic zone. In this regard, we want answers to five questions that the Prime Minister reads when he answers the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-17_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau will decide on its further procedure. I'm gonna pass on a message. Dear colleagues, regarding the 'Model for the European Parliament' in this Chamber on 21 May, I ask you to clean your tables and table drawers and take these materials with you. Now, let's go through the presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-17_U4	The first and only item on the agenda today is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please report to Andres Anvelt, Member of the Legal Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-17_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure at second reading. In a few words, I will remind you of what this bill deals with. The draft concerns the amendment of § 2 of the Code of Enforcement Procedure and is due to the need to bring the law on enforcement proceedings into line with the law on the expropriation of immovable property. On the substance, as I said last time, the draft law eliminates certain technical shortcomings. In 2005, the law on enforcement proceedings, as well as the law on the expropriation of immovable property, was adopted, and this slight time gap between the adoption of these two laws led to a situation where one law does not bear the provisions laid down by another law. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft law at its meeting on 7 May. Kalle Laanet, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits, Valdo Randpere, chaired by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. No proposals were received to amend the draft law, and consequently the Committee on Legal Affairs took the following decisions: to propose a second reading of the draft law at today's plenary session; to stop reading the second reading; this proposal was consensual; and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to the third reading. May 30th, where it will be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-17_U6	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. Peter Võsa, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-17_U7	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur appointed by the Commission told you quite thoroughly what is the content of this draft and what has been said about it in the Commission. However, as a representative of the initiator of the draft act, I will also summarise once again why it is necessary for the Riigikogu to give a green light to this legislative amendment. Once the bill enters into force, the law on enforcement proceedings will be brought into line with the law on the expropriation of immovable property. This change will help us in the future to avoid confusion and delay in building important objects, roads and railways for the state and local authorities. The current Code of Enforcement Procedure did not recognise the decision of the Minister and the local government as a decision of expropriation, but only the decision of the Land Elder. According to the expropriation act, when expropriated, the bailiff is usually ordered by the county governor, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications to build or acquire a state road or public railway, the municipality or city government to build or acquire a local road. Therefore, in this case, we are dealing with correcting errors and bringing the two laws into line. And also: I would like to thank everyone who has helped to deal with this draft, including members of the coalition parties and, above all, my colleagues from the Committee on Legal Affairs. You see, cooperation and dialogue are possible if we do the right and necessary thing! I hope that this draft will not remain the only positive example of cooperation between the opposition and the coalition, and this constructive cooperation will continue in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this law, we will speed up the construction of important objects for the state, and I would ask you to support this in the future procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-17_U8	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and today's only item on the agenda is also closed. Good fellows, our hearing is closed. Thank you and I wish you the strength of your work. Closure of the sitting at 10.09 a.m.
