ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 15th working week. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with six colleagues from the Central Party Group, we want to report an inquiry to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir. The inquiry once again concerns the activities of the Estonian Internet Foundation. We submitted an inquiry with the same content to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications last week, and we now wish to obtain the position of the Auditor General of the State, how useful the recent purchases of the Estonian Internet Foundation were when the Foundation is competent to carry out its tasks, etc. We hope to get some real answers from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U3	Thank you. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your attention to those people who are coming to this remote control and making their proposals. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For a few weeks now, the Alliance of Democrats has been discussing, both in this hall and in Estonian society, how to make better use of the state-owned oil shale for the benefit of our country. That is why we are putting in place a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, which aims to increase the oil shale resource tax of EUR 2 per tonne. In this way, a total of EUR 40 million would be raised in the state budget, and this would mean that a 20% increase in teachers' salaries could be covered. I'll give you an example. At present, Eesti Energia, Viru Keemia Grupp, Kiviõli Chemical Industry, Kunda Nordic Cement pay a resource tax of 20 to 30 million euros a year, while these companies have earned more than 200 million euros a year. In short, five initiators - Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laane, Deniss Borodich and Rainer Vakra - believe that oil shale is all the wealth of our people, so it should be obvious that the government should support its people with oil shale and invest in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U5	On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Management Board decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu's board of directors. If it complies with the provisions of our Home and Working Procedures Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now I'll give you the messages. On Wednesday, 16 May, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus in the role of Prime Minister, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. The Board of the Riigikogu has registered the members of the Riigikogu as members of the Group of Mart Laar and Mart Nuti Isamaa and Res Publica Union. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has approved the following changes in committees: Mart Laari, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, member of the Constitutional Committee of Mart Nuti, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and member of the Monetary Committee of the Riigikogu. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. A draft law approving amendments to the Statute of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), launched on 14 May 2004, and appointed it as the commission of directors of the Monetary Commission. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, today, after the end of the plenary session, the opening meeting of the Estonian-Angola parliamentary group is taking place in this Chamber, and the convener is Yana Toom. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. Eighty-four delegates have been registered as present, and 17 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U6	Let's get to today's agenda. Today's first item is the first reading of the draft Act on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Member States of the European Union) and the Republic of Croatia. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U7	Good morning, good members of the Riigikogu. As announced by the President of the sitting, you have before you a draft law on the ratification of Croatia's Treaty of Accession to the European Union. Against this background, accession talks with Croatia have taken place since 3 October 2005, i.e. Estonia has been a member of the European Union throughout the accession process. These talks lasted a little less than six years: the accession negotiations started in October 2005 were declared closed at the end of June last year, on 30 June. Then the last chapters of the negotiations were closed. The Treaty of Accession was signed at the European Council meeting on 9 December 2011. From this moment on, Croatia will participate as an observer in the work of the EU Council and working groups. Under this Accession Agreement, Croatia is due to enter into force on 1 July of the following year and the Accession Treaty will enter into force when all parties have transferred their instruments of ratification to the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in accordance with the Agreement. As of now, eight Member States have ratified the Treaty, i.e. Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Italy, Malta, Latvia, Lithuania, Cyprus and Croatia themselves have ratified the Accession Treaty on 9 March. The ratification process in most Member States is already taking place at some stage. In accordance with the Accession Treaty, the European Commission will continue to monitor Croatia's preparations for accession and commitments, in particular with regard to the legal system and fundamental rights, justice and home affairs and competition policy, pending Croatia's accession. On 24 April, the European Commission also published an interim report concluding that Croatia is generally on track with its latest preparations. In contrast to the recent accessions of Bulgaria and Romania, Croatia does not have a post-accession monitoring mechanism, but is carrying out a reinforced pre-accession monitoring of what is currently happening. As we know, Estonia has always been a strong supporter of the enlargement of the European Union, based on the principle that all European countries that meet the relevant requirements and conditions must have the opportunity to join the European Union. So in this context, we have also supported Croatia's accession talks, and now that these talks have been successfully concluded, we have also supported Croatia's accession. Croatia's entry into the European Union is in itself a positive sign and impetus for those partner countries in the Western Balkans that are not yet European Union countries to encourage these changes and continue reforms. Some countries in the Western Balkans, which are not yet members of the European Union, need to do so. In the Treaty of Accession of Croatia, as in the case of the countries which acceded in 2004 and 2007, the provisions relating to certain transitional periods have been adapted. For example, restrictions on the free movement of Croatian nationals are 2 + 3 + 2 years (Estonia currently does not intend to apply these restrictions) and there are some other exceptions, as have been the case for all of the last two accession rounds. For example, Croatia limits the sale of agricultural land to foreigners for seven years, there are also some transitional rural measures, the environmental transition periods will apply when implementing the Directives on integrated prevention and control of water, landfill and pollution. It is therefore proposed that Estonia support Croatia's accession to the European Union and ratify the Treaty of Accession. Thank you very much and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U8	Thank you very much. You have a lot of questions. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U9	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Today, there is a current financial and economic situation throughout Europe. What kind of economic health does Croatia enter the European Union? Will there be more hoes in the loan slippery, or will there be less?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U10	Croatia's economic health is generally good. It is clear that, given the solidarity of the European Union, Croatia will not initially become a net payer, but rather a 'acceptable' of the European Union's budgets. For example, next year, EUR 449.4 million has been planned for Croatia under the Structural Funds Cohesion Fund. Those figures shall be adjusted as necessary in the following years. So in this respect, the same principle applies, which has also been applied to other countries that have joined the European Union, including Estonia, whose standard of living is below the Union average, whose domestic production is below the average, and which, on the basis of the principle of solidarity, receives European Union support from different funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U11	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U12	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I wanted to ask you how realistic it is right now that the timetable you were talking about has to be. In the current situation, could a Member State delay or slow down or be opposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U13	No, there is currently no indication that the process will not end by 1 July 2013. If you look at the actions of the various countries in carrying out ratification, there is no signal from any country that someone is going to delay the process so that it can be pushed beyond 1 July next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U14	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Perhaps I missed the ears, but I wanted to ask more precisely whether there is any information on how far it is to review the Treaty on the ratification of Croatia's accession in a country of the European Union such as Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U16	The Greek Government has not yet sent a draft law on ratification to Parliament. As we know, there has been either a direct pre-election or an election time in this country recently. Given that Greece is currently experiencing internal political instability, this draft probably will not reach Parliament until it is more clear on the one hand or on the other, whether new parliamentary elections will come or, by some miracle, the government will be able to be created.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U17	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U18	Thank you! Mr. Minister! I don't mind the Croatians. It is good that they come to the European Union. The question is how the Croatians have settled the question of Ante Gotovina. The Croatians think he's a national hero, another Europe thinks he's a war criminal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U19	I'm sure you can't generalize here. In itself, according to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, Croatia's cooperation with this court is very good. Otherwise, accession talks with Croatia would not have reached where they have reached. One clear requirement for those countries in the Western Balkans for which the international community, including international judicial bodies, considered that there were suspects of war crimes was that cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) should be comprehensive in order to move forward with the accession process. And, as we know, Gotovina has been transferred to that court. If the majority of Croatian society, or the governments and parliaments, had opposed it in recent years, none of this would have happened. There may be people in society who don't think this is the right move, which is probably the case, but it certainly cannot be extended to the majority of Croatian society. Otherwise, we would not have completed these accession talks.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U20	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U21	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the Croatian border. How is the Croatian border, the future EU border, covered by agreements? Does he also have problems such as Estonia and Russia that certain sections are the subject of a dispute or are in doubt because it is a very hot area?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U22	Part of Croatia's external border, the future internal border of the European Union, is still the subject of discussion. This is the part of the border that runs between Croatia and Slovenia. However, a few years ago, when relations between Croatia and Slovenia were somewhat tense because of this section of the border, these tensions have now been removed. Slovenia and Croatia have signed an agreement according to which this transnational border issue was dealt with by international arbitration. On 17 January this year, the President and two members of the Arbitration Tribunal were appointed through the European Commission, and Croatia and Slovenia have both appointed their members. Hopefully, this border issue will be resolved in full civilization through arbitrage. This has been confirmed by both parties that they will also accept the arbitration judgment. By the way, a meeting between the Prime Ministers of Slovenia and Croatia is scheduled today to discuss friendly cooperation between the two countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U23	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U24	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You said in your presentation that the Republic of Croatia is subject to reinforced pre-accession monitoring. What does this essentially mean, for example, compared to the procedures that were carried out in Estonia in its own time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U25	In the case of Estonia, monitoring was also mainly carried out before our accession, so there are no major differences in this respect. However, there is a difference between what was decided in 2007 for Bulgaria and Romania. Then it was agreed that follow-up would be carried out. But we all understand that it is one thing to control when a country is not yet a member of the European Union and another when it is already fully at the table and can vote. This ex post monitoring practice, which has been applied to Bulgaria and Romania, has unfortunately not produced a good and effective result. Therefore, in the case of Croatia, it was decided that all matters should be settled before the date of accession. This is the main difference compared to the last enlargement round of 2007.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U26	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Estonia's agricultural support rate is currently 45% of the European Union average. Is it known what the rate of post-accession agricultural payments will be in Croatia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U28	I'm afraid I don't have that number on hand here, so I'd like to report it to you later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U29	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Croatia's accession to the European Union, of course, is obviously a fairly encouraging signal, seen by the conditions. However, perhaps with a few sentences on how the Croatian banking and financial system are assessed? After all, this country must have a long way to go to the euro.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U31	Croatia is not an exception in this respect, and there are no major reproaches for it. If you look at areas where Croatia has been granted any exemptions or has requested it itself, or where ex ante controls are being carried out side by side, the financial and banking system is not in one category or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U32	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U33	Thank you very much. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will report to us on the situation in Croatia and it is logical that he cannot give an exhaustive answer in all respects. Yet one moment of life itself. I remember that once I walked through the door of the Riigikogu and a female journalist began to talk to me, who was surprised! He was from Croatia. He asked me a number of questions and, at the same time, he was amazed that it was possible that there was such a low level of corruption in Estonia, even though we came from a post-communist space. It is known that Croatia has had problems with this. How is Croatia now positioned on this scale in comparison with its immediate neighbours Serbia and Slovenia? Any sign of progress?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U34	Progress certainly is. Otherwise, if these problems were insurmountable, we would not be in the phase we are in. At the same time, as I said in the introductory speech, this pre-accession monitoring, which is currently under way, includes issues such as the independence, efficiency and fundamental rights of the judiciary, including the fight against corruption, as well as legal and internal issues. The fight against corruption is one of the few areas where this reinforced pre-accession monitoring is being carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U35	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U36	Thank you. Good minister! Has Croatia also set itself the goal of joining the euro area at the accession talks and, if so, when could it happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U37	The rulebook of entry into the European Union provides that all countries that join the European Union, including Croatia, must do everything in their power to adopt the euro. The specific deadline for this to become possible for Croatia is not set, but Croatia, by itself, is also committed to joining the euro area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U38	Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! One such question: have you sensed yourself or have our diplomats reported what the emotional temperature in Croatia is now? What is the optimism of the people, and what are the wishes and moods of the people on their way to the European Union? How are they feeling? Do they expect solidarity from this side, or do they just wait long enough to get the money from the funds, or is this a 'value-based' merger on a wider scale?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U40	In general, attitudes in Croatia are largely similar to those in Estonia before we joined. On 22 January last year, a referendum was held on the accession of Croatia to the European Union, with the result that 66% voted in favour. This percentage is relatively close to what was in Estonia. More generally, it can be said that the attitude of society, including the scepticism associated with the European Union, these doubts and doubts, all of which are very similar to what existed in Estonian society before 2004. However, there is one very important difference, and this is the tragic recent past of the country, the wars and violence associated with the break-up of Yugoslavia. A large number of people who support the accession of Croatia to the European Union certainly have a security aspect in mind, in addition to the economic side. So that all the horrors that happened there 20 years or even less years ago would be impossible in the future. So ensuring security and security is also a very important aspect in ordering and consolidating relations between the countries of the former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U41	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Of the 27 countries of the European Union, the euro is currently not in force in ten countries, yet they are committed to joining the euro. I ask: do these countries also have a sanction if they do not join the euro for a certain period of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U43	There is no sanction for not joining the euro. However, as we know last year, at the climax of the financial and economic crisis, agreements were reached to impose sanctions on those who do not fulfil the conditions which, in themselves, are preconditions for joining the euro and concern budgetary balance, credit burden, etc. In this sense, there is an indirect sanction for non-compliance with these conditions, which are prerequisites for countries that are currently not in the euro zone to be able to join in at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U44	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Are there any political parties in the Croatian Parliament who oppose accession to the European Union known?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U46	I have not heard of any vocal internal political signals, and the elections in Croatia, after which power changed, took place at the end of last year. But despite the fact that the former opposition became a coalition and vice versa, there has been no change in the attitude towards the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U47	Thank you, good minister. No further questions for you. Thank you very much for answering the questions. I would like to speak with Imre Sooääre, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U48	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed a draft of 221 at its meeting on Thursday 10 May, to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet and ministerial officials were invited. The Minister for Foreign Affairs presented the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. To what the Minister has just said in this Chamber, it might be a reminder that Estonia recognised the Republic of Croatia on 31 December 1991 and diplomatic relations between the two countries were concluded on 2 March 1992. The Minister noted that as an enlargement-oriented country of the European Union, Estonia has supported Croatia's accession to the Community and has shared its accession experience to the extent possible. For example, in January 2011, a project introducing better regulation was launched in Croatia, in which the Estonian Ministry of Justice also participates as a partner in Britain. Estonia has also provided assistance to Croatia in drafting a communication strategy. The Commission was interested in whether Croatia has been able to negotiate any differences in the accession negotiations compared to Estonia and other countries. In response, we have found that Croatia will, in principle, join on the same basis as the other last entrants, who will benefit from the same transition and harmonisation periods as the other entrants. Croatia has no advantages. The difference has been compared to Bulgaria and Romania, which have already been mentioned here, only pre-accession controls. We were also asked about our trade and our economic relations with Croatia at all. Unfortunately, economic relations between Estonia and Croatia have been rather modest. As of 2011, Croatia's total trade turnover for Estonia was just over 6 million euros. Nearly half of this, or 2.96 million, was made up of exports and 3.13 million imports. The Commission was also asked what Estonia would specifically gain from Croatia's accession. The Minister replied that it was exactly the same as in the case of the accession of all other countries. This will open up Estonia's access to the market there, facilitate the free movement of goods and labour, help strengthen European values in the region, which should bring stability to this region with a very complex history for a longer period. Mutual travel opportunities will certainly improve. Croatia is known as a country of tourism. There was also a question of how accession will affect the European Union's budget. Since Croatia is certainly a more recipient country at first, all Member States must, of course, jointly contribute to the harmonisation of Croatia through the European Union budget. The pace of processing the draft Act on the ratification of accession was also discussed in the Riigikogu. Looking at the rest of Europe, ten Member States have already ratified the Treaty, some are planning to do so this year and part in the first half of next year. As Estonia has already supported Croatia's accession during the accession negotiations, there is no reason to delay the ratification process, but there is no need for an urgent procedure, as some countries will do so only next year anyway. The opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was that this draft could be dealt with as usual and at a pace in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. And finally. The Committee on Foreign Affairs made three procedural decisions: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 221 be placed on the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the first reading today, 15 May, to appoint a rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs here, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set ten working days for the amendments. All decisions were taken by consensus by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U49	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Imre Sooäär! Do the groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 221. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for tabling 221 amendments. 1 p.m. on May 29, 2004.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U50	We will move to the next item on the agenda: the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel was initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The main content of the draft is to clarify the basis for establishing the guarantees, i.e. to simplify the activities of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and to clarify the competence of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board in this important area. More specifically, the purpose of initiating the draft was one court settlement, which entered into force on 31 January 2012 and dealt with the case of one fuel seller. By decision of the Supreme Court in this case, the two provisions of the Liquid Fuel Act were repealed. One was an implementing provision which is no longer applicable. The second repealed provision stipulated that the security of the seller of the fuel released for consumption may be reduced by the tax authority only in respect of persons who have been active on the fuel market for at least three years. Consequently, as from the entry into force of the judgment, the three-year condition for the tax administration to act in this field can no longer be invoked. In order to clarify the regulation of guarantees and to bring the Liquid Fuel Act into line with the established case law and, more specifically, to comply with the court's requirements, the draft amends the right of the tax authority to change the security already lodged and accepted. In practice, in certain cases, there is a possibility that circumstances will change once the tax authority has taken a decision to reduce the guarantee, for example, certain conditions have lapsed or changed, and the administrator needs to increase the security again. This change gives this opportunity. And § 42 (5) is directly linked to the requirement arising from the judgment that, since companies operate through members of their management and control bodies, and it is their earlier actions and reputation that can be drawn from the foreseeable solvency, compliance and other circumstances of the company, it is appropriate to apply as a prerequisite for the reduction of the guarantee the requirement of sound commercial reputation also to the members of the company's directors and control bodies, as well as to the business partners of the fuel seller. The judgment also clarifies the considerations to be taken into account by the administrative body when deciding on the reduction of the security. The draft provides that, when deciding on the reduction of the guarantee, the tax authority shall take into account the same factors as it will base its decision on the increase of the guarantee. In addition, the ability of a member of a person's management and control body to act in the field of fuel management, as well as previous business experience and investments made by the company in the field of fuel management, shall be laid down as a criterion for considering the reduction of the guarantee. The draft extends the time available for the tax authorities to take a decision on the reduction of the security: instead of the previous 10 days, it is 30 days. When the bill enters into force, the burden on the tax authorities will increase somewhat, but I can assure you that it is worth it. The entry into force of the draft will not entail any financial costs. It is also difficult to estimate the revenue measured specifically in the money of this law, but the regulation of all fuel guarantees will certainly give the state a return by collecting taxes that have not yet been collected. The draft naturally improves legal clarity with regard to fuel sellers, as the criteria on which the tax authorities base their decisions become more specific. The entry into force of the Act is planned in general terms. The Committee on Finance discussed this draft for the preparation of its first reading at its meeting on 30 April. In fact, earlier meetings were the motive for drafting the draft. One of them was with representatives of the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance. On 17 April, the Committee on Monetary Affairs was sitting at the Tax and Customs Board, where we dealt with all tax fraud and, in particular, fuel market regulation in a wider way. From these discussions, this topic arose and eventually became the form of a bill. As the draft regulates the wider economic sphere, the Committee on Monetary Affairs also decided to ask the Committee on Economic Affairs for an opinion. Before I referred to the judgment, which also gives rise to this draft, this is a complex legal dispute that has been settled. The Commission also requests the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to clarify the legal issues. At its meeting on 7 May, the Committee on Finance made such decisions: to put the first reading of the draft on the agenda today, 15 May, and to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 23 May at 18. The Commission also decided to appoint a rapporteur for the draft. All these decisions were taken by consensus by the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U52	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U53	Thank you! According to the Supreme Court, the required guarantees were too high for small firms operating on the market. Do you have any information on whether, because these guarantees were too high, a company went bankrupt or left the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U54	Indeed, the claim of EUR 100000 was, according to the Court, excessive for the company in this particular case. Although the Court acknowledged that this amount would not have to be paid out, that it could also be covered by a guarantee and a bank guarantee, it would still be excessively burdensome for a small company. The Court also gave very good reasons for this in its judgment. I don't have any information that the burden imposed by the tax authorities would have caused some companies to go bankrupt. Businesses, of course, will be bankrupted and re-established, it will be in economic life all the time, but for someone to be bankrupt because of an excessive guarantee, I have not heard from the representatives of the Tax and Customs Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U55	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! At this stage of the procedure, did the Commission also discuss the draft law with representatives of the sector, with representatives of fuel companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U57	We didn't do it. The draft that we are currently discussing does not impose any more burdens on economic operators than in the past, nor does it interfere with economic activity; rather, it makes the rules for companies clearer and clearer. For this reason, in the Commission's view, further discussion was not necessarily necessary. Nor, as far as I know, has anyone in the sector approached the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but part of the procedure is ahead and proposals may still come. They're welcome, of course. If a representative of the sector comes up with any position, we will certainly address it. The general practice is that discussions take place between first and second readings. I do not exclude that we are also discussing this with representatives of the sector, but so far there has been no need for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U58	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 228. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. May 23, 2005 at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U59	Our third item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I ask for a presentation of a speech chair by a member of the Riigikogu Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A year ago, the Riigikogu amended the Land Tax Act and released the land tax on the land under home. The lower income from the land tax exemption granted by the State to the municipalities is intended to be compensated by an increase in the share of income tax allocated to the municipalities. This state's behaviour is broadly correct. Many years earlier, however, the state has also exempted land under § 4 of the Land Tax Act from land tax for certain categories of land protected by nature, land under embassies, land under cemeteries and churches and some other categories. These land tax exemptions have still not been compensated for by the municipalities. According to the Land Administration, 13800 cadastral units across Estonia are affected and the total exemption from land tax for these cadastral units is 1.75 million euros per year. The calculation is made at a rate of 2,5%, i.e. the maximum rate, and thus results in the theoretical maximum possible cost to the state budget in the event of compensation. The lion's share of this estimated amount constitutes a tax exemption for nature conservation countries. According to the Ministry of Finance, this amount was EUR 1,16 million in 2011. Of course, the exemptions and incentives granted to nature reserves affect municipalities differently. For those municipalities with more conservation land, this is a bigger problem where less, of course, a smaller problem. Here are some more marked examples of practical life in 2011. Kuusalu vald in Harjumaa: EUR 360688 due to land tax in 2011, EUR 106738 not collected from nature reserves, EUR 0 from the Equalisation Fund. Käina vald Hiiumaa: land tax 75088 euros, 15775 euros were not collected from nature reserves, 0 euros were allocated to the Equalisation Fund. Vormsi vald in Läänemaa: collects land tax EUR 57668, EUR 10538 were not collected from nature reserves, EUR 0 was allocated to the Equalisation Fund. Last but not least, Vihula municipality in Lääne-Virumaa: EUR 267825 due to land tax, EUR 122703 not collected from nature reserves, EUR 0 from the Equalisation Fund. For years, national self-government associations have applied for the compensation of land tax exemptions granted by the State under Paragraph 4 (1) (11) and (2) of the Land Tax Act from the state budget. This was also the case in this year's budget negotiations, and the municipal associations have also proposed this in the proposals for the 2013 budget negotiations. This issue has also been discussed earlier in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. The previous composition of the Riigikogu did so on the proposal and initiative of the Estonian Greens of the Party. Finally, the Social Democrats hope that the Riigikogu shares our understanding that the proposed draft law would improve the current unfair situation in which the state has granted the landowner an exemption, but the resulting reduction in income has been left to the local government and thus its income has been reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U61	Thank you very much. And please, Aivar Sõerd, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. I would like to clarify what you want to make up for with this draft. I remember there was some confusion in this regard in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You said you wanted to compensate only for the exemption of land under nature conservation, but you have read the entire list of § 4 of the Land Tax Act when you presently report. So what exactly are you compensating for? There was exactly the same question in the Commission, and we could not find out, because what you said was a story, but the explanatory memorandum to the bill says something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U63	The explanatory memorandum to the draft law relates to § 4, which concerns all possible land tax exemptions, including land under nature conservation, cemeteries, churches, congregations, embassies and other lands. However, it was also said in the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that we are looking at things in such a way that flies separately and meatloafs separately. The overwhelming part of this tax exemption covers nature conservation countries, all others form a tiny part.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U64	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's take a look at the flies and the meatloaf. This is a draft law amending the Land Tax Act, which bears number 197. The Commission discussed this at its regular meeting on 7 May. The draft was presented by Kalev Eagle as the representative of the initiators. The Commission had invited Sulev Liivik, Head of the Department of Financial Management of Local Government, from the Ministry of Finance, to the meeting, who gave an overview of what the Government of the Republic thought and mainly the Ministry of Finance thought. A representative of the initiator of the draft act explained the objectives of the draft proposal in the Commission and stressed that the compensation relates only to the land under nature conservation, as stated in Paragraph 4 (1) of the Land Tax Act. Rather, it is assumed that it had in mind paragraph 11 of § 4, which concerns the land under nature conservation. He stated that referring to the whole of § 4 in the text of the draft is a finger and the explanatory memorandum states that it is only a draft concerning the land under nature conservation. I would like to draw attention here to the quotation from the representative of the initiators of the draft at the time of the referral. When transferring the draft, Kalev Kotkas said: 'On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will hand over the draft law amending the Land Tax Act. The concern is that, as a result of § 4 of the Land Tax Act, no land tax is paid on land from the land of the conservation reserve and destination protection zone and the land of the destination protection zone for permanent habitats. The point of our draft is that the loss of land tax will be compensated to the municipalities from the state budget. ' At the meeting of the Commission, however, it was stated that the text of the draft proposal proposes a compensatory obligation for all land tax free countries as provided for in § 4 (1) of the Land Tax Act. As the previous speaker has also said today from this remote control, this is not only the land of the conservation reserves and the land of the destination protection zone, but also the land of the cemeteries, churches and parishes, as well as the land belonging to the buildings of foreign diplomatic and consular offices, etc. It was also noted that, contrary to the assertion of the representative of the initiator, the explanatory memorandum to the draft does not contain a reference that the regulation of the draft would be limited to the land under conservation. Such a little mess then, but we did understand in the Commission what the initiator's representative was trying to make clear to us. At this point, I would not dwell on land on the basis of cemeteries or churches, for example, but I am talking only about the land under conservation, which was actually meant by the initiator of the draft. The originator's representative compared the compensation offered to the draft with compensation for the exemption of the land under the domestic tax, referring to the aspect of equal treatment. The Commission expressed its view that the idea of a tax exemption for homeland had been different, and the originator pointed out that the tax exemptions and tax exemptions for domestic land concerned by the draft were set out in the different provisions of the Land Tax Act. The topics of the draft we are discussing today fall under the category "tax-free land', which is covered by § 4 of the Act and which is not essentially subject to the regulation of land tax, the second is a tax credit for the land subject to the regulation of land tax, which is covered by § 11. The position of the Government of the Republic was presented by Sulev Liivik. He gave an overview of what the Government of the Republic thinks of the bill. The government is not in a supportive position. There are several reasons for this. One of the main reasons which was mentioned in the Commission and which was also in the letter from the Ministry of Finance to the entire Finance Committee was that the tax-free land mentioned in section 4 (1) of the Land Tax Act is not subject to tax and has not been subject to land tax since 1993. Local authorities therefore have no income deficit that should be compensated for. A fine-tuning fund has been set up to support local authorities with a lower income base and its use takes into account the lower receipts from nature conservation. In addition, the position of the Government of the Republic contained other questions that would arise should the procedure of this draft continue or be adopted as a law. For example, the implementation of the law is already confusing. Is compensation provided for countries that were not tax objects before 2003, or does it apply to countries that cease to be subject to land tax after 2013? The principles for calculating compensation are also confusing in the draft. If we leave cemeteries and other land aside, the fact is that the boundaries of nature reserves will change over time. The land tax rate at the moment of taxation cannot be taken as the basis, in which case the area should also be considered. There is no explanation of exactly how the compensation would be paid, based on the formulas, and whether or not it would have to be applied for in this case. There were other questions. The problem was also the analysis of the impact of the exemption. The figure was 1.75 million euros, which are borne by the local authorities, who bear how much. The representative of the Ministry of Finance did not agree with this position. Compensation for the outstanding land tax would deteriorate the position of the government sector and the explanatory memorandum does not show why such compensation is still necessary in the current situation, as the state already has an obligation to provide local authorities with a sufficient income base to carry out local tasks. Other things were discussed in the Commission, and I will try to give everything to you as precisely as possible. The initiator of the bill stated that the number of land under nature conservation has multiplied. We have specified that there has not been a multiplication of land area, that the number of cadastral units has multiplied over a certain period of time. For information to the extent that nature reserves have not been subject to land tax and have not been taxed for nearly 20 years. Nearly 90% of the land under conservation has been protected since the early 1990s. However, it was considered that the decision taken by the State to take land into conservation and consequently to obtain less land tax should still be compensated for by the local authorities. Mrs Vasiliev expressed that opinion. As the government's representative, Mr Liivik stated that in 2002, when more sites were protected under Natura 2000, this was offset by an inadequate income base for local authorities through the Equalisation Fund. Natura 2000 is a pan-European network of protected zones aimed at ensuring the protection of rare and endangered birds, animals, plants and their habitats. Taavi Rõivas stated that it is certainly worth stressing that all local authorities, from tourism and clean air and nature, will also benefit from nature reserves. This thought was also reflected. What else to add? The Commission was interested in the importance of this support for many municipalities. It must certainly be marked that many of them support it. A representative of the initiator of the draft act noted in the Commission and said today that local authorities have raised the issue of compensation for land covered by nature conservation every year in the state budget negotiations. And true story, that's true. The discussion on the 2013 state budget and state budget strategy has also included a proposal to abolish national land tax exemptions from the restricted zone and storage areas. This proposal has not yet been fully analysed because there have been many differences of opinion. So no agreement has been reached in the discussion between the associations of local government units and the Government of the Republic. Since, according to the draft, the amount of compensation is calculated on the basis of the tax rate in force at the time of the exemption, the Commission also raised the question of possible preventive reactions by local authorities in relation to the subsidies requested by the draft. For example, Tallinn was introduced, where the land tax was raised just before the tax exemption for the land under home was introduced, as it was known in principle that the exemption would be compensated. It was also noted that the rate of land tax may also be increased by the local government in the middle of the year. If such information is to be provided, the local authority may carry out the tax increase within a relatively short period of time. The initiator of the draft act considered it important to note that such an increase in the land tax in the middle of the year is, however, doubtful. Finally, what the Commission's majority spirit was. It could be said that if the aim was to support local authorities and expand their revenue base, it seemed to be the intention of the initiator of the draft, it would be more appropriate to discuss it in the context of measures other than those specifically proposed, as an amendment to the Land Tax Act. This is particularly because the land in question is not included in the land tax objects. Thus, the Land Tax Act may not be the best place to lay down municipal subsidies, the state grant allocation is not the subject of the regulation of the Land Tax Act. And finally, I'm gonna get to the decisions. The first decision was to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 15 May, which was decided by consensus. The second decision was to appoint me specifically as rapporteur for the commission, which was also consensual. And the last decision was to propose that the draft be rejected, with 6 in favour and 4 against, no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U66	It is difficult to comment on your specific examples, because unfortunately you did not have yourself in the Commission, and your very specific examples could not be reflected in the Commission. But if I were to generalize, I would still turn to what the representative of the Ministry of Finance said. In general, land declared to be a natural reserve or destination zone for protected areas is eligible for compensation from the Equalisation Fund. The tax exemption for countries which have not been subject to land tax exemptions, such as the land under home country, has also started to compensate the State further. It is possible to pay compensation through the Equalisation Fund. I would like to repeat one more thing that I mentioned earlier. The question is what is our goal. If our aim is to improve the income base of local governments, which, according to the author, seems to me to be the purpose of the draft, then one might think that there are better ways of doing so than taxing or compensating for the tax exemption for countries not currently subject to land tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U67	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U68	Thank you. In the course of another discussion, a government plan to remove land from the land tax list was also issued. Can it be said, then, that government agencies are being taken into conservation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U69	Thank you, Good Eiki, your questions are always interesting and easy to hook up! Then try to answer them accurately! I, too, have heard that the Government of the Republic has discussed a plan to exempt land under government agencies from land tax. I believe that if this bill comes to the Riigikogu, I think it will happen during the 2013 state budget procedure, and in this case it should be enforced as a law before the state budget enters into force, then we can certainly discuss the basis on which the specific land under government institutions will be exempted from tax. Should this be separately compensated? I understand that the Government of the Republic thinks it shouldn't be. This is a completely separate subject. The reason is that local authorities do not charge land tax for the countries under their jurisdiction, which they should pay to themselves. As has been said, this is a completely separate issue, and I think we will be discussing it when a specific draft has come to this hall. I believe that this will be one of the most interesting discussions in the context of the entire state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U70	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U71	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I am still interested in this deteriorating government budget position. In Europe, municipalities and central government are taken as partners. We had said that if there were severe cuts, the local governments would also have been placed at the limit of loans, because if local governments had borrowed, this would have worsened the government budget position. However, now that there is a desire to increase the income base of local governments, it is a counter argument that this will worsen the position of the government sector. Do local governments' budgets and revenues count in the government's position or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U72	Thanks! I thought that we would come to the point that the topics go beyond what was said in the committee and that we would be discussing the local government's revenue base as such. We are setting the ground for discussing the extent to which the state should compensate the local government for the loss of revenue to carry out their daily tasks and what resources could be available to pay such compensation. This is certainly a completely separate issue which we could talk about and which, perhaps, could also be discussed as a matter of national importance in this Chamber. Today, however, we are confined to the discussion of compensating the land tax on the land of the natural reserve and not just that land under the temples of the cemeteries, churches, and congregations. We certainly cannot begin to address the issue you have raised now, because it was not really discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U73	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U74	I have no optimism. I will simply pass on what was said in the Commission. The Commission spoke about the possibility of changing the tax rate in the middle of the financial year. In fact, the answer to your question was to some extent that it would be possible to change the tax rates in the financial year. Just a specific period of validity in this case is what will be put in place. If there is an obligation that the earliest time can be 1 January next year, then it may be expected that this will also be the case. Then the next question arises as to which moment to base the entry into force of a specific law, whether the moment when a decision was taken at local level. We are now speculating that the local government has taken a decision, and the question is whether we will base this moment, another moment, or a year earlier. These are the decision-making points.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U75	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Sven Sester! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U76	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft discussed in the Chamber of Riigikogu today is correct, because this issue needs to be resolved, but the point of the bill is unfortunately a little misdirected. The draft act complements the Land Tax Act with a new section which states that the land tax loss for land exempted by the State on the basis of § 4 is compensated to the municipality from the state budget. In the present case, this point concerns areas where economic activity is prohibited, i.e. protected areas and reserves of nature, land under the structures of foreign diplomatic and consular missions, land under the cemeteries, land under the churches and congregations and under the temples, etc. Unfortunately, these areas have never been subject to tax and have not been subject to land tax since 1993, which makes it difficult to demand compensation from the state here. However, I will come to a much more burning problem, which is the abolition of the tax on the land under home from next year. On 16 June 2011, the coalition politicians of the Riigikogu passed a law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts owners from land tax. Already then, the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments presented the view that when planning decisions to reduce the revenue of state taxes on the budgets of local governments, including land tax revenues and local tax revenues, it should be foreseen that other tax revenues would be increased or the revenue base reduced in the same financial volume. A similar amendment was proposed by our group on the draft. The exemption of homeowners from land tax clearly reduces the income of local governments. This was acknowledged by the drafters. The promise was that the State would compensate local authorities for the loss of land tax from the state budget. According to the decision of the Government Office, the exemption from the land tax is compensated by an increase in the share of income tax received by the municipalities. While local governments currently receive 11.4% of each person's income, 11.57% next year and 11.6% next year. This is the government's proposal to compensate for the lost land tax on the land under homeland. But, dear coalition politicians, this is no compensation. During the economic crisis in 2009, when the first cuts were made, it was the municipalities whose revenues were cut. The second additional budget for 2009 reduced the proportion of income tax paid by individuals to local governments from 11,93% to 11,4%, while reducing the liabilities only in a cosmetic way. Let us remember: the municipalities were told that they no longer have to take care of youth sports and can save on kindergartens. On the surface, this is only a reduction of percentage points, but it is actually millions of euros. Moreover, the decision was made in the middle of the financial year when the municipalities had already concluded contracts for the maintenance and construction of the buildings and investments put in place. Today, you dare to say that increasing the income tax to 11.57% for local governments means compensating for the loss of land tax. First of all, the share of income tax received by municipalities should be increased to 11,93%, and only then will compensation for the abolition of land tax begin, which is the right step in itself, but the government has now given the people a gift for the money of local governments, which is not in line with the meaning of the law. The Centre Party Group considers that the first reading of draft 197 should be completed despite shortcomings. These shortcomings can be corrected by means of amendments. I would point out that neither was the Land Tax Act amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax, properly done by the initiators of the draft. This draft was very flawed before it went to second reading, and then technical errors were corrected through the proposed amendments. I thank you for your attention and support the completion of the first reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U77	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal was to reject the draft 197 at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. We are preparing for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 197 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 39 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U78	Thank you very much. You have a number of questions. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U79	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission, for a very thorough and meaningful report. I understand that the basic shortcomings of the draft were of a technical nature and raised practical questions about how to implement it. But the more general problem is that the state provides an opportunity to introduce land tax and, at the same time, takes advantage of the possibility to make tax exemptions for its part. Did the Commission have no objections in this regard? Did the Commission find it fundamentally right that if the state creates nature reserves and says that they are tax-free, it is also right to compensate the municipality for the loss of income? I so understood that if the technical shortcomings were to be remedied, the draft could continue to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U80	Thank you, Madam President. I'd go back to the good waitress, the equalization fund and the formula you mentioned. Not all municipalities receive support from the Equalisation Fund and the State Budget Act also confirms the formula for the distribution of the Equalisation Fund. The share of land under conservation is not in this formula. The formula takes this into account as a loss of revenue in the case of a 50% exemption from land tax. If the exemption is 100%, the formula does not take it into account at all. Did the Commission not consider it necessary to initiate, in the light of this debate, an amendment to the State Budget Act concerning the formula for the distribution of the Equalisation Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U81	One could briefly say that the Commission did not consider this necessary and there was no such discussion. But I'll give you what Mr. Lyvik has said. If you look back in history, the principle that land which has been restricted in accordance with the Constitution was paid 25%, 50% or 75% of the tax rate, as decided by the Government of the Republic, and the natural reserves were exempt as they are today, was applied between 1995 and 2009. Since the beginning of 2009, the principle is that the land tax is paid at the rate of 50% of the land tax on land from the land of the restricted zone, the land of the permanent residence restriction zone and the land of a natural object. Nature reserves are still free of land tax. In this respect, the Commission did not take a separate position to make any further changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U82	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U83	Thank you, President of the sitting. A representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It is true that in 1993 the land tax was applied to a series of nature reserves and nature reserves, which were not really land tax objects. But life has moved on, and now very many new areas have been designated as nature reserves. For example, in my municipality of residence, there was Haanja Nature Park in 1993, where there really was no tax due, but now, for example, the Luhasoo Landscape Reserve and about 50% more nature reserves have been added, where land tax has been reduced or not paid at all. How do you comment on that? There is certainly a legitimate expectation on the part of the local government for the new protected areas for which the land tax paid should generate income for the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U84	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U85	Good questioner! Actually, you didn't quite get it right. I explained relatively precisely, pointed out the basic deficiency of the draft, and I will repeat that too. The main counter argument was that the land under conservation, which was discussed by the initiator's representative, is not land tax objects. All other questionable issues, starting from which year the status is fixed as a basic situation and how to proceed, whether or not to make separate applications, were highlighted by the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Finance as additional references that the draft is relatively crude and incomplete. However, the main problem is that the land in question has not actually been subject to land tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U86	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U87	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In your presentation, in which you presented the position of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you spoke about this draft, which would compensate the municipalities for land tax-free land. This would mean that the municipal income base would grow. You used the expression that this approach would undermine the position of the government sector. Please explain how an increase in the municipal income base would worsen the position of the government sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U88	It's nicely brought out. I quote more specifically the position of the Government of the Republic. The government states this in concrete terms. If we look at the explanatory memorandum that the initiator has submitted to us, here are some figures. The Government of the Republic argues that there is no analysis in the explanatory memorandum as to how this land tax exemption, which should result in local governments losing EUR 1.75 million, is divided by local authorities. The Government of the Republic disagrees with the view that there is no impact of the Act on the budgetary position of the general government and notes that the compensation of unpaid land tax from the state budget is detrimental to the government's budgetary position. Nor has the originator in the explanatory memorandum provided the sources of compensation and taken into account the principle that the State is not obliged to compensate for the income that could be generated for the non-taxable land. The Government of the Republic should now begin to cover the loss of income which has not actually been received in the past and for which there is therefore no legitimate expectation. I believe I answered in a relatively specific way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U89	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U90	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Did I get it right that you mentioned in your report that the surface area of land under nature conservation has increased? What's it coming from, this area has increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U91	I repeat: it is true that in 2002 more protected areas came under Natura 2000. Paragraph 4 of the Land Tax Act deals with reserves of nature, and more came in 2002. It is, as I mentioned, a pan-European network of protected areas. In essence, they have come up in the framework of Natura 2000. According to information provided by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, when we talk about how much more of these areas have come, the ratio is 90: 10, or 90% of the area has been fixed before, and 10% has come up. However, the number of cadastral units is considerably higher: smaller parts have increased. If we're talking about surface area in this case, the compensation should be based on surface area, then it's increased by 10%.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U92	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U93	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Would you once again explain how the Equalisation Fund compensates for the lower amount of land tax due on nature reserves to those municipalities whose compensation fund allocation is 0? I gave four examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U94	I can, of course, only base here on the discussion we have had on the Commission. I certainly do not want to go on this slippery path of interpreting something, expressing my opinion and making any proposals that go beyond the framework of the Commission's sitting and my mandate. But as far as I could tell, and it seems to me that the Commission, too, had a very clear understanding that when land tax on land under nature conservation was taken away from the municipalities in 2002 and the local authorities reduced their income base, it was indeed compensated through the Equalisation Fund. Mr Lyvik confirmed this very clearly. He also pointed out that some local authorities did not have an additional increase in compensation paid through the Equalisation Fund. This was due to a number of other criteria which gave this indication that a particular local authority was not entitled to additional income through the Equalisation Fund. This was the subject of the Commission. But I understand that most of those who, according to this formula, had a smaller number, received compensation through the Equalisation Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U95	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U96	Thank you. In fact, I didn't quite understand the land that was not subject to land tax. If this was previously the land on which the municipality received the land tax, then it was converted into a land protected by nature, on which the municipality no longer received the land tax, how can there be a justification that the land tax was never the object of the land tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U97	I repeat once again: it is Paragraph 4 (1) of the Land Tax Act and it has not been tax subject to tax since 1993. We are talking about nature reserves, as well as land under cemeteries, churches, and parishes, and other land that has not been subject to land tax since 1993. Consequently, even in the previous year, the municipalities did not have any pre-requisites for obtaining this specific income in the previous year, in the previous year or in the previous year or in the previous year or in the previous year. This is a very clear and concrete position. I come back once again to this issue, which was also raised in the Commission, i.e. from the exemption of the land under home. The difference is that today's draft refers to § 4 of the Act, which sets out a list of land tax-free countries. There are no land under home on this list. This land is mentioned in § 11 'Tax incentives', which the state has also started to compensate for. This is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U98	Thank you. I cannot agree in any way that paying land tax on land under government agencies would be a tax on myself, because this tax is still paid by the central government and is received by the municipalities. But you mentioned that if the initiators are to improve the revenue base of the municipalities, which we can undoubtedly take as a compliment, because such a desire does indeed exist for the Social Democrats, there are better ways of doing so than the draft we are discussing today. Can you perhaps introduce these better ways and could they also be discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U99	Thank you. As regards your reply before asking the question of whether taking land tax from government institutions is self-payment or not, I think that this issue will certainly rise to us in the autumn. Then we can certainly also hear the clearly reasoned opinions of the Government of the Republic as to why they believe, either way or otherwise, what is the basis for their position. It's one side now. The other side is what compensatory mechanisms could be, i.e. what the relationship between the state and the local government could be, how the state could further compensate for the costs incurred by the municipality. Of course, it would be easy for me to reply that we have not discussed this in the Commission within the framework of a specific draft. But I'm just trying to open a little box, really, just a little bit. It can be assumed that there are, in general, two options: either to compensate through the Equalisation Fund or to increase the relevant percentage. The local government and the state must come to an agreement. I understand that the state budget strategy has also been negotiated for a long time, bearing in mind that all the tasks that have been placed on the shoulders of local authorities will be fulfilled in order to have financial support for this. But it is clear that we can operate both in the country and in the local government with the money we have thanks to the revenue base.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U100	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U101	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to take a peek inside that box, too. We are in an ongoing process, the expansion of land under nature conservation, and this reduces the income base of local governments. We have a tax exemption for the land we live in, we have a tax exemption for the land that is under government control. As a member of the Monetary Commission and an economic person, you know that the income base based on real estate taxation is a more stable source of income for the municipality and also allows greater financial autonomy. Why has it happened that we have started to progressively reduce the solid income base of local governments and are trying to replace their sources of income with less stable sources or less financial autonomy?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U102	That is a very philosophical question. I do not agree with your postulate, in principle, that attempts are being made to reduce specific sources of income for local governments. Once again, I stress that there are major problems and there are minor problems. This isn't a small problem, but it's been approached from the wrong angle. Once again, I would like to stress that if you read this bill, you will see that it is intended to compensate the local government for the land tax, which the local government has in principle not had any preconditions for. For 20 years, the local government has not received the land tax in question from a true story, either from church lands or from foreign representations, or from the same land of natural reserves as the initiator of the draft had in mind in his original idea. These lands have not been subject to tax. A very important nuance must be taken into account so that the question can be justified if the local authority has the basis to expect compensation in a particular case, as is the case, for example, in the case of the exemption from the land tax on the land under domestic land. The land under the land was not subject to the exemption, this tax was clearly stipulated and the local government was expected to receive land tax for the previous and previous years, but also for the following year for the land under the land. That is why the State took a clear view that the local government would be guaranteed the money it had previously received as a tax for the land under home. It was found that an increase in the percentage was best suited to the compensation mechanism. I think that there are two ways of compensating: a fine-tuning fund and that higher percentage, which will be allocated to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U103	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U104	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The statement by the Ministry of Finance on our draft states that there is no analysis in the explanatory memorandum of how the tax exemption of EUR 1.75 million has been calculated and how this amount is broken down by municipality. It is also argued that the initiator has not provided any source of compensation. Do you remember if the draft exemption from the land tax for the land under the land included how the effect of the 17 million euros exemption was calculated, how it was distributed by municipalities and what the sources of cover were? Or do we have double standards?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U105	Thank you. I remember very well. What the hell, let's blow this door more and more. We're moving away from the bill's so-called therapist, but we're opening this door as long as the extent to which it's being decomposed is acceptable. Yes, I remember very well that the amount indicated was up to 17 million and was also calculated how it would occur. The income base (this table has also been sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs) of all local authorities in respect of the land tax and the extent to which the amount would be in each local government if the tax exemption under the land was to be introduced. So the amount and how it was created were clearly stated in the draft when the law was passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U106	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm a little embarrassed. As far as I know, regional minister Kiisler supported this draft a few months ago. He said it was a thought worth discussing, and it was an idea how to deal with the situation. But in the Committee on the Environment, a representative of the Ministry of the Environment visited the Environment to introduce the development plan for nature conservation until 2020. This development plan, which is a document of the current government, states: "The system of compensating for the reduction in land tax resulting from natural conservation restrictions should be developed in such a way as to allow full compensation of the income base to the municipalities. " Perhaps you can explain whether the government has a number of views on compensating land under nature conservation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U108	Thank you. I have nothing to add to what I've said before. I regret that you were not on the Commission when you discussed these issues. I have understood, and the representative of the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs also passed on this idea to me, it seemed that the members of the committee understood unambiguously and in the same way that the government had compensated for this reduction through the Equalisation Fund. Once again, let us remember what the surface area of the reserves of nature was twenty years ago and what it is now. When we talk about large nature reserves, such as Matsalu and others, 90% of them were all land-exempt objects 20 years ago. There has been no decision on them and there has been no need to develop compensatory mechanisms. However, the Government of the Republic has paid attention to the 10% that has increased through the Equalisation Fund. I think that the Minister responsible for this area could certainly be asked in the future. One might ask that if a certain number of hectares in a local government are exempted from tax or a situation is created where a land is declared to be a reserve of nature, whether some compensatory mechanisms are immediately implemented through the Equalisation Fund, whether they are even applicable and if so, to what extent. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to respond to this in full detail. We did not start to analyse it in depth and in depth in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U109	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U110	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As we know, 18 years ago, the Estonian state ratified the European Charter for Local Government. One of its points says that if the State has committed commitments to local authorities or changed their revenue base with its decisions, the State should compensate for this. Did the Commission not discuss the possibility to leave this draft in the process and to conclude its first reading today? I would remind you of the arrival of excise duties on fuel for local roads last year. The first reading of the Socialist Bill has been completed. Then you put it on the shelf, but in the budgetary process, the local authorities did receive some kind of increase in this regard. Have you discussed this? And don't you think it's necessary to leave this bill in the process?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U111	If you're asking if we've discussed this, I'll say we've discussed it naturally. Otherwise, I could not be here today to pass on what the Commission thought and decided. We discussed it, of course. They brought out both pros and cons. Plus's mostly the author of the bill. One thing we have already talked about today: in fact, the initiator of the draft is the desire to increase the income base of the local government. It is hardly the intention of the initiator of the draft that the land of the cemeteries in particular should be paid to the municipality. Indeed, there has been no such expectation on the part of the local government, and the initiator of the bill certainly does not have this vision either. But now the minuses. Maybe it's wrong to call them minuses. Let's say we're talking about an understanding of how to do this. This was not what a majority in the Commission would have accepted. Once again, as Eiki Nestor said, it seemed that there were technical problems in the draft, which were also highlighted in the Commission. Indeed, there were, but that was certainly not the reason to reject the bill. On the technical side, when this compensation would run, what would be the situation of tax objects in 2013 or before, whether after 2013 or before, how the surface equations would change are not described here. But I will say it again so that it can be corrected at second or third reading. I agree that it can be improved until it is clear that if the initiator has spoken in his speeches of § 4 (11), but the documents submitted to us contain § 4 (1) it is clear that he has not meant the cemeteries. But the main thing is that it is trying to compensate for land tax on objects where local authorities do not have that expectation. This was the main argument on which the Commission made its decision a few days ago. On this basis, it was considered that there was no need to proceed with the draft and to complete the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U112	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This question was probably not discussed in the Commission, but since you are a good and kind answer, I believe you will also answer that question. It was said that in 1993 some lands were no longer subject to land tax. I don't trust this government well. The government, along with the coalition, has thrown in all kinds of pranks before. That's why I'm asking you, isn't there another trick planned here? Perhaps you are declaring that, for example, from 2013 or 2014 onwards, the land tax under home is not an object of land tax, but you are compensating only once and that no compensation will be granted to the municipalities in the coming years. Doesn't the government and the coalition have such an insidious plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U114	Thank you, Mr. Toobal. Trust the government! The government does not throw grudges, the government is working to make Estonia do well. According to my information, there were no bad implications for the draft, neither were there nor were there any other decisions taken in the course of the 2013 state budget and in the course of this year's state budget. Why do I put the state budget as an example? Because it's called a law that gives the government the basis to distribute money. Trust the government! I have a feeling it would be better for you. I don't know if it would be better for the government. But your assumptions for asking this question were, in my opinion, wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U115	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U116	Thank you. I have a procedural request. I'm asking for Sven Sester's sentence, "Trust the government! " Draw down in the verbatim!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U117	Got it. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am also surprised by your confidence and the accuracy of the facts. But you also said that the tax exemption for the land under home has been calculated, that this system is clear and that the total amount is EUR 17 million. Is that right? But we have now come to the point that there are tables according to which this amount is actually EUR 13 million. Can you explain that? This is where you were dealing with inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U119	Thank you, good questioner! I'm not confident, not at all. There are so many questions and problems all the time. All the time we have to see if I'm really capable of answering, and we need to get up to speed. So I guess my tail is shaking all the time. I'm worried if I'm gonna be able to answer all the questions, but at least in my good faith, I'm trying to do it as best I can. Your question is, of course, far from bill 197, but since we've been silent about the door, let's go a little further. Take out the verbatim reports that reflect the discussion on the exemption of the land under homeland. I was a waitress myself, and I pointed out in what circumstances that amount would be 17 million and what this amount would most likely be really like. I don't think I'm bluffing when I say that in the verbatim, that amount is really 13 to 14 million. There were also reasons why it is likely that the maximum 17 million will never be reached. In fact, we could already talk about smaller amounts in the final phase of the draft procedure. I think you can see it in the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U120	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U121	Good manager! Good speaker! I read in the draft that the amount of compensation is calculated on the basis of the tax rate in force at the time of the exemption. As we know, the rate of land tax in municipalities is quite different. The question arises as to whether this approach is based on the principle of equal treatment between municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U122	Thank you. This was the subject of attention in the Commission, and I took note of this in my first speech. I pointed out that the proposal calculates the amount of compensation on the basis of the tax rate in force at the time of the exemption. In the Commission, the question was raised precisely in the context of whether local authorities could react proactively to what is stated in the draft. Examples were also given here. The example of Tallinn was, I think, Taavi Rõivas, who said that the land tax was increased just before the introduction of the tax exemption for the land under the land, in a situation where it was actually known that a fundamental decision to compensate for the exemption was coming. Urve Tiidus, who has been a local government character for a long time, also said in the Commission that the price of land taxation can also be changed by local authorities in the middle of the financial year, i.e. at any given moment. Such dangers would certainly remain. If you stop reading this bill first, you should start fixing what the moment is. Perhaps we should look back instead of 2013 but some earlier year when the picture was more true. We really had a discussion on this subject, which I also passed on. The initiator of the bill, I'll be honest with you, thought raising the land tax in the middle of the year was doubtful. But there is such an opportunity and it has been shown that it has been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U123	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will try to stay within the framework of the draft under discussion. In presenting the bill, a good colleague, Kalev Kotkas, said that the previous Riigikogu also dealt with a similar bill. What are the differences between these drafts and what are the next steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U125	Thank you. What are the differences? I owe you an answer because I don't have this previous bill on the table right now so I can do a quick comparative analysis. This issue was not discussed in the Commission either. At no moment did there arise any question as to what differences might have occurred previously in the proceedings before the Riigikogu and what is being dealt with today. On this side, I owe you an answer. It can certainly be analysed and pointed out. In replying to the other side of your question, what could be the result and what is the understanding, I say that the Commission has said it: with 6 votes in favour and 4 against, there was support for the failure to stop reading this draft. That is the answer to the other side of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U126	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U127	Thank you. Good waitress! I thank you for kindly opening the door to the land tax free law. I ask in turn: does this 0.17% increase in income tax compensate for the loss of income from all municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U128	Thank you. That's how you always get punished when you start popping the door, one finger at first, the other finger, and finally the whole hand. There was little inaccuracity in the question. For information and clarification, I would also like to say to everyone else in this Chamber, but especially to the questioner that compensation takes place in two stages. You have just mentioned 0.17%. In fact, there will be an additional 0.03% next year. First, the share of income tax received by municipalities will increase from 11,4% to 11,57% and next year to 11,6%, to be quite precise. The other part of the question was substantive. Is that gonna make it up to you? I understand from the estimates of the Government of the Republic that this should compensate for the current cost that local governments have. In addition to this 0.17% and 0.03%, I have understood the documents of the Government of the Republic, there are one-off payments, if I am not mistaken, for a sum of EUR 990000. But once again, this was not the subject of the draft procedure. I haven't prepared all the papers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U129	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U130	Thanks, good waitress, you've been here so long! But I also have a question for you. Paragraph 5 of the Land Tax Act refers to the tax rate. It says: 'The rate shall be fixed by the local government council by 31 January of the tax year at the latest. After all, tax returns are sent out at the beginning of the year. How can your optimism be changed in the middle of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U131	We shall proceed to the fourth item on the agenda. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like a presentation by Peep Aru, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 6 December last year, the Constitutional Commission launched a draft law amending the party law by consensus in order to create a legal framework for foundations that are organisationally and individually distinct from political parties and seek the promotion of neighbourhood policy, world-view civic education and societal political thought. Why did we do that? The hallmark of democracy is the participation of citizens in politics, the separation and balance of powers, the excellence of the law and respect for human and civil rights. Political education and awareness of the principles of democracy and the nature of political action are essential for the development of a strong civil society and for sustainable and science-based policy-making. In order to contribute both to the development of national democracy and to international cooperation, it is necessary to review, in the broadest possible spectrum, national opportunities for the transmission of democratic principles, strengthening political education and shaping political will. According to the Commission, the planned activities of the foundations are particularly necessary for Estonia in the direction of the countries of the European Union's neighbourhood policy. An effective Eastern Partnership must support the establishment of a pluralist political system. It's clearly missing right now. In our view, more clearly regulated legislative changes could have a positive impact on the activities of competing multiparty foundations. It has been asked why parties in this field are not covered. Effective and effective democracy is not possible without political parties, according to the founding fathers of the Constitution or, of course, the Commission. According to the laws in force in Estonia, the party is a voluntary political association whose aim is to express the political interests of its members and supporters and to exercise the power of state and local government. Providing development assistance, history writing and archiving, civic training and academic research are not specific tasks of the party. The Commission is convinced that, just as political parties have not been created to replace the various NGOs in their diversity, without ignoring the meaning of the Constitution and the law, it is not possible to impose additional functions on foundations for parties with specific tasks in the draft. It is also unthinkable for a party in one country to intervene directly in the activities of a party in another. I'll give you an example. German free liberals have never intervened in the everyday activities of the Reform Party. However, the Friedrich Naumanni Foundation, operating on the basis of the principles of liberalism, invested over 1.8 million euros of German taxpayers' money in projects to promote competitive democracy in Estonia in 1998-2001. The initiation of the draft has attracted great public attention and created a very lively discussion that has not yet ended. The Commission received a wide range of views from NGOs and citizens. In general terms, these include the following points of view: Firstly, our efforts to better regulate and control political party-related foundations are recognised, as well as our desire to pay more attention to the analysis supporting the work of political parties and to civic education activities in Estonia and elsewhere. Secondly, it is considered that what is planned does not take fair account of other organisations that also promote democratic values and skills, defying the random, complex application and reporting requirements of funding, and contributing to the objective of volunteering to a large extent. Thirdly, it is proposed to fund the foundations to be set up from the political parties' own resources, including the state budget for the parties. Fourthly, it is believed that the foundations planned should not be called foundations for the development of democracy. In its replies, the Commission has explained that the introduction of these foundations with clearer regulation is not directed against existing or future activities of the NGOs. Such foundations are intended only to fill one clear-cut niche, which the Commission believes is currently outstanding and which, given Estonia's past and present state of affairs, would require both moral and practical execution. The regulation of foundations in the form proposed in the draft does not have the slightest impact on current or future funding or access to finance for the NGOs. According to the Ministry of Finance, 900000 euros have been planned for the foundations mentioned today in the state budget for this year. About 7 million euros have been allocated directly to the rest of the non-profit sector operating in Estonia through different areas of government and around 67 million euros are available for projects and programmes that allow them to submit applications. We also see additional opportunities in the active activities of the foundations being created for the implementation of a wide range of specific cooperation projects for other NGOs. As the initiator of the draft law, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not treat democracy merely as a monopoly of NGOs or political parties. We therefore fully accept the comment not to refer to these foundations as foundations for the development of democracy. In the Commission's view, the most appropriate name form of the options is the 'Worldview Foundation'. In the Commission's view, it is necessary to continue to hear and consider the views of all parties before adopting the draft as a law. In preparing for the second reading of the draft, we intend to meet with representatives of the Estonian Association of Non-profit and Foundations, political parties and also the country of destination of the work of these foundations at the meeting of the Commission. On 16 January, the Government of the Republic gave a favourable position on the draft. It says that the hallmark of developed civil society is a development in which, with a view to promoting democracy, it is possible to create public non-public institutions seeking a comprehensive examination, documentation and promotion of democracy, politics and related active citizenship both in Estonia and abroad. The activities of the Foundations will make it possible to contribute to international cooperation by conveying their knowledge and know-how to evolving democracies. For its part, the Government also made a number of proposals for consideration in the course of further proceedings. The most important of these are the following: The government proposes to complete the explanatory memorandum by writing down the planned costs for foundations in the 2012 State Budget Act and to specify how the funding of foundations from the state budget should take place in concrete terms. In order to ensure the transparency of funding, a more precise designation should be made to the institution or public body through which funds are allocated to foundations. Consideration should be given to reviewing the control mechanisms for sources of funding. The Government notes that the power conferred on the Ministry of the Interior by the draft regulation to establish a list of persons from whom foundations may generate income is not unambiguous and creates additional costs for drawing up and monitoring the list. The Government of the Republic regards as a key issue of the credibility of such an institution a clear separation between the funding of political parties and the main activities, including electoral intervention. The Commission has involved the Ministry of Justice in the discussion of these issues and possible amendments. The draft has also been proposed by the committee on the supervision of the funding of political parties, wishing that the control of foundations should be more clearly defined. During the preparation of the second reading of the draft, we are trying to find more precise wording here. At its meeting on 8 May, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided by consensus to send a draft 144 draft law amending the law on political parties to first reading in the large hall and to conclude the first reading. It's gonna happen here tonight. The bill and the explanatory memorandum have changed the term 'democracy development foundation' to 'worldview foundation'. We have excluded from the draft the part concerning the remuneration of the members of the committee on the supervision of the financing of political parties, as there is already a draft 216 on this topic in the Riigikogu proceedings. The following is a brief presentation of the main points of the draft. I've already talked about goals, and now I'm going to get to the point. The draft states that the funding and activities of the Worldview Foundations will be supervised in the future by the Political Party Finance Monitoring Committee. The Commission has competence and sufficient resources to do so. Given the interrelationship of world-view foundations with political parties and the need to ensure transparency in the funding of both political parties and world-view foundations, it is fit for purpose to bring together competence in a single institution. In this form, the supervisory body shall have an overview of the activities of both persons and shall allow it to intervene where necessary. The draft extends the mandate of the Commission to monitor the funding of political parties to the foundations to be set up for the purpose of monitoring. Specific reasons are given for the Commission to be able to issue injunctions. All of this is intended to ensure that foundations only pursue the objectives and tasks set out in the law in their activities. The committee responsible for monitoring the funding of political parties can recover from the state budget amounts which the foundations have not used to achieve the objectives of the law. The Commission will also assess whether it is achieving the objectives of the Foundation or whether it is realising the interests of the party. The party law is supplemented by § 1219, the paragraphs of which give general regulation of the Worldview Foundation. The foundation within the meaning of this Act is a foundation established by a party whose purpose is to promote, in the public interest, a social political idea and a free and democratic world view in Estonia and abroad. This gives rise to four important features of the Worldview Foundation. First of all, this foundation is private. Only a party can establish a foundation within the meaning of party law. The aim is to promote a social political idea and a free and democratic worldview in the public interest. Activities are allowed both in Estonia and abroad. It is thus stipulated that the Foundation shall pursue its activities primarily in the public interest. The Worldview Foundation is not an associated party organisation in the sense of party law. For reasons of general clarity, the following sections of the section state that the name of the foundation must include an addition to the 'Worldview Foundation'. The Worldview Foundation is a foundation within the meaning of the laws of foundations. The law of the party would only provide for exceptions and clarifications relating to the Worldview Foundation. Issues that are not regulated by the law on the foundation are regulated by the Law on the foundations. The political party may have only one associated worldview foundation. The political party shall be obliged to inform the committee of the supervision of the funding of the parties immediately after the establishment of such a foundation of the establishment of its associated Worldview Foundation. The connection of the Worldview Foundation to the party must be shown on the website of both the party and the foundation. Paragraph 1220 regulates more specifically the activities and purpose of the Worldview Foundation. Activities include: dissemination of projects, grants and information on promotion of world-view civic education, research on democracy development and policy, research on the history of the political party movement, promotion and support of such studies, recording the history of the foundation-related worldview and its political parties related to the worldview. The Worldview Foundation does not necessarily need to be active in all the areas of activity mentioned in the draft, but it is important that the Foundation cannot be active in other areas not covered by the draft. The more precise purpose and activities of the Worldview Foundation shall be laid down in the Statutes of the Foundation. The compliance of the statutory activities with the law shall be verified by the committee responsible for monitoring the funding of political parties. Paragraph 2 of the same section states that the activities of a foundation may not be aimed at achieving the objectives of a party. The Party and the Worldview Foundation are legally and economically distinct legal entities whose objectives and activities are distinct. The purpose of the Worldview Foundation cannot be to express the political interests of its members and supporters and to exercise state and local authority. Thus, it is not possible for the foundation to be able to use the resources fixed in § 2 of the Political Party Act in its activities. Only political parties can use the funds fixed there. This limitation plays an important role in the activities of the Worldview Foundation and in monitoring such activities. This is an important aspect of the review of the legality of operations. Paragraph 1221 limits the membership of the board of the Worldview Foundation. A member of the Board of the Worldview Foundation may not be a member of the Government of the Republic, a member of the Riigikogu, a member of the European Parliament, a member of the Supervisory Committee on the Financing of political parties, a member of the management board of a party or a member of a party employee or person who is in a stable legal relationship similar to working with a party on the basis of a contract of employment. This is the way to ensure the distance of the Worldview Foundation from party and day politics. Paragraph 1222 (1) demarcates the sources of income of the Worldview Foundation. It has also been established that sources of revenue and funding, which are not fixed in this future law, are not acceptable. The Worldview Foundation can only receive direct allocations from the state budget, as determined by the party law. No other allocations can be made from the state budget to the foundation and they cannot be accepted by the foundation. Project grants from the state or local government cannot be channelled to the foundation. Section 2 states that donations within the meaning of party law may also be the source of the foundation's income. Point 3 allows the foundation to carry out transactions with its assets and thus generate revenue. In accordance with point 4, the Foundation may also be financed by grants from the European Union, provided that the objectives of the grant mostly correspond to the objectives of the Foundation's activities. The Foundation may apply for both ad hoc grants and project grants and similar grants. Pursuant to point 5, the revenue allocated to the Foundation shall be from the public resources of the Member States of the European Union, the European Free Trade Association and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, provided that the objectives for the use of those funds are largely consistent with those of the Worldview Foundation. The term "foreign public funds' also includes public funds at other levels of foreign administration, such as local government or Land level. Foreign funds here also include foreign project grants and such. Pursuant to point 6, revenue from the assets of non-profit organisations and foundations operating in the Member States of the European Union, the European Free Trade Association and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation is also permitted as a basis for the Foundation's revenue if the objectives of their activities are largely consistent with the objectives of the Foundation's activities. In this way, large-scale cooperation projects are possible. In the case of the foreign countries mentioned in points 5 and 6, the selection has been based primarily on the fact that the state order of these countries and their domestic and foreign policy activities correspond to democratic understandings and therefore it can be assumed that the activities of the Member States of these organisations also correspond to the constitutional order of Estonia. The Ministry of the Interior is also ordered to keep a list of these foreign legal entities. The funds are allocated from the state budget only if the party that founded it is represented in the Riigikogu. Time's up?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U133	Yeah, time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U134	Well, we can go on with the questions. I'll just say one more sentence. The Commission proposes that the amendments be received by 6 p.m. on 24 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U135	Thank you very much. It was an important addition. You have many questions. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for your thorough presentation. As you mentioned in your presentation, this bill has raised a series of questions in public and, in some way, fears. You may have touched on the subject of supervision in your report, but maybe you'll talk it over. I understand that the main emphasis on control is placed on the committee to monitor the funding of political parties. Will this Commission be increased, or will it already have so much capacity to control these foundations? How often could this control take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U137	This control is much wider. The direct control is indeed dealt with by the committee on the supervision of political parties' funding, but I think that the biggest controller is the public. After all, the draft states exactly what these foundations can do at all. The draft also states that reporting and engagement with political parties must be made public on the websites. Everyone has a free chance to ask them if anything gets messy. However, as far as the monitoring committee is concerned specifically, as I said in my report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the monitoring committee is capable of carrying out its work and of controlling foundations. We certainly need to clarify some points during the preparation of the second reading, because the monitoring committee has also made its proposals on this. We need to discuss how this could be even more effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U138	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid! Something's wrong with the microphone. I'll take a one-minute break. Director's break until 12:24 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U139	We'll continue the trial. Please give the floor to Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U140	I am pleased that although the Riigikogu technique did not want to pass the critical question at first, this error has now been corrected. Peep, you said in your excellent presentation that there is no democracy without a party. I would first like to remind you that there are no political parties without citizens. That could be taken into account. Now tell me the human languages in which this project is different from the previous project, or NASA.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U141	Thank you. Of course, citizens are the foundation of everything in this world. In a democratic country, they exercise political power, primarily through political parties. It is true that we are also able to do this at local level through electoral alliances. It is certainly possible for citizens to participate in political work as individual candidates. But speaking of differences, first of all, human languages were also discussed in the report, but I will repeat it then. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs presented the draft as amended. Two things have been changed for the first reading. Firstly, the foundation for the development of democracy has been called the foundation for worldview throughout the draft. Secondly, the part concerning the remuneration of the members of the committee on the supervision of the financing of political parties has been omitted, as a separate draft has been submitted. No further changes have been made to the first reading. If there are any changes, they can come in the ordinary course of the process to prepare the next readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U142	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If we look at the goals of the Worldview Foundation, it can be read that the aim is to promote a social political idea and a free and democratic worldview in the public interest, both in Estonia and abroad. As far as Estonia is concerned, it is clear. But the other thing is foreign countries. Does it not seem strange to you, or is it justified that the taxpayers of the Estonian state are going to intervene in the internal affairs of other countries and financially support their democracy and political parties at a time when resources are not sufficient to solve their own concerns?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U144	No, it does not seem strange to me that Estonia, being at the level of development it is, is trying to help educate citizens from other countries, particularly in countries belonging to our eastern partners. I think it's perfectly normal. As I said earlier in answering Lembitu's question, it is, in a sense, our responsibility to the non-profit sector in the countries that, in the time we started, introduced our worldview to us and invested quite a lot of money here to develop democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U145	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I do not have a parliamentary career as long as you do, but I have also met many voters: teachers, older people, people with disabilities and others. I have never heard of anyone having a great need for the Riigikogu to deal with the development of democracy in the way this bill provides for. Society gives a different signal, which members of the Riigikogu could discuss in this Chamber and think about. I have also studied the opinion of the Government of the Republic, which revealed that the Government supports this bill. Do you have the opinion of any non-profit organisation or foundation that genuinely supports the adoption of such a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U147	There are dozens, maybe hundreds, of them. I have made four points, which are mostly said in these letters, very concretely and very honestly. Of course, there were minor differences of opinion. Shall I repeat that? For the sake of clarity, Inara, I will. They recognise our efforts to regulate better than Inara would be interested, so I would read more about the foundations and control of political parties, as well as the desire to pay more attention to the analysis supporting the work of political parties and to civic education activities in Estonia and elsewhere. It is believed that what is planned will not be taken into account fairly with other organisations that are also engaged in promoting the values and skills required for democracy, defying the random and complex application and reporting requirements of funding, and contributing to the objective of volunteering to a large extent. It is proposed to fund the foundations that will be created from the political parties' own resources, including the state budget for the parties. It is considered that planned foundations should not be named after foundations for the development of democracy. These were the four prevailing views of the very different letters that came to us. I've already read all this. But I don't have any specific letters with me. I tried to generalize because there's a lot of letters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U148	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U149	Good Peep! I have a feeling that you think people are fools who have no view of the world, who cannot cope without the help of a party, and who have a party to help develop. I still don't get it. For example, small world-view NGOs are the ones that have made Estonia what it is today. We all know very well, without any party friend, that it has worked very well. My question is, what have people done wrong, that you have to reach out to them with your world-view hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U150	Good Juku-Kalle! The question is very personal, but Peep Aru is currently presenting the Commission's views. Personal things we can talk about later if you want to talk to me. People have done nothing wrong. After all, no one opposes, forces or takes anything away from anyone, but tries to promote worldview and democratic activities, both at home and abroad. Is it bad when people get smarter? I think it's very good when people are smarter. The more conscious they make choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U151	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U152	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'll try to continue my last question. Who are these political partners? Tymoshenko's in jail. Sannikav was just released in Belarus, but he sat down for quite a while. Nemtsov went to Tallinn on the weekend, before that he had been detained twice in Moscow during the same week. There's been a lot of short-term arrests like this. In short, there are many problems of harassment of political prisoners and free media, and these are structural problems. Would it not be more appropriate to provide this type of assistance to, for example, the Institute of Human Rights, which could deal with this issue systematically and more strongly, and to wait for this moment when it is really possible to provide world-view assistance in these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U153	Thank you, good questioner! One doesn't rule out the other. When it comes to the perspective of the world, nature does not tolerate an empty place. I am absolutely sure that new democratic movements will certainly emerge to replace those who have been imprisoned or, as a result of some kind of political will, removed from the political activities of the countries you mentioned, which seek a better social order. Why shouldn't we help them when we have the chance?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U154	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When we are talking about separating a party and a foundation, this separation is seemingly apparent, because the party is the founder of the foundation and certainly members of that party are also on the board of that foundation. But when we look at the draft, we will see that there is support from those parties that represent a liberal or social democratic world view. But we also have representatives of the green worldview; we have representatives of the Christian-democratic worldview. Do you think that the introduction of these world views is not necessary for the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U156	Thank you, Deniss! You remember as well as I do whether or not there was talk about this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when it was initiated and before it was sent to first reading. But I'm sure we can discuss these issues. As I answered the previous question, pulling the line is in our hands. However, there is one point I would like to disagree with. It is not the case that only members of a party may belong to the governing bodies of the foundation. It still depends on who's elected leaders. There could certainly be a good person from outside the party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U157	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U158	Thank you. Honourable answer! While the political party funding monitoring committee is in charge of monitoring the funding of foundations, it is, of course, quite difficult to keep the funding of foundations and parties in image separation, and this probably seems to be the funding of political parties. But now to the worldview. In general, equal treatment is included in the principles of democratic worldviews. If we have rules that, in order to finance organisations that have not yet been established and which have not even been established by law, cannot, in general, be included in the budget for the current year, then in the case of these foundations, the money has already been planned, but the organisations...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U159	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U160	...not yet. Did you discuss the fact that it is very easy to postpone implementation of the law to 1 January 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U161	We didn't discuss whether postponing is difficult or easy, we didn't discuss dates at all. But we can discuss it in the future when such a proposal comes. However, in the first part of the question, the argument was that if the political party funding monitoring committee controlled the foundations' statutes, the economic activities and the use of money, and since it was also involved in controlling the funding of parties, it is all in the same platoon. On the contrary. After all, this gives this monitoring committee a clearer picture of where these links are.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U162	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U163	Thank you very much. I listened to this long debate and again and again to the question of why the views of unrepresented political parties in Parliament should not be promoted. Am I right to understand that, if we meet this request, we should start promoting monarchism, anarchism or, for example, beer friends (a party like this once in Russia) through such funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U164	I didn't say that here, Raivo. All I have said is that it is clear from the will of 101 people where this funding limit will be drawn in the context of world views.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U165	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U166	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I see a substantive problem in this text that I have to deal with. I look at § 1222 (1) (1) (1) which states that the financing of the Worldview Foundation is provided by the state budget in accordance with this Act. Have you discussed this in the Commission, or can you explain how the law has not been passed, but in the state budget, the money is already in it? This goes against the text of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U167	We have not discussed this in the Commission from this point of view, but we have discussed how this year could be resolved by the fact that there is money, but there are no foundations yet. Thanks to the fact that the majority of the large Chamber of Riigikogu has looked far ahead, this has happened. How's this gonna work out? All the parties who have the right to form these foundations must definitely say the word here. I think some sort of solution to this year's money needs to be found politely.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U168	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thanks a lot, Peep Aru! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 144. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 144 amendments. May 24, 18 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is over. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 12.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U169	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In the context of this initiative, there has been talk of providing world-view democracy assistance to other countries, i.e. political parties in other countries, but there was not much talk about it in the presentation. What could these countries be like? Is it possible to name them quite specifically? If Ukraine is among them, what does the waitress think, to whom it would be more necessary and appropriate to provide such assistance, is it Viktor Yanukovych's party in power or, for example, Julija Tymoshenko, who is currently in prison? With this question, I would point out that the political landscape of these target countries can be very different in structure from ours and that the problems may be more related to human rights than to the outlook.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U170	Thank you. That's a good question. I also mentioned that, above all, the countries of the European Union's neighbourhood policy are concerned. However, looking at the practice so far, the way the Estonian institutions have interacted with different countries, the citizens of these countries and civil society organisations, based on this practice and, above all, the practice carried out by the Reform Party's Liberalism Academy, it can be said that the republics of the former Soviet Union are mainly those who have not yet embarked on a democratic path. Of course, when granting aid, the target target must be chosen. The people of foundations, political parties and also the Estonian public must keep their eyes open and act in such a way that this aid can be very useful. But under no circumstances should we go on developing democracy in some countries of destination only within the framework of the ideology of the ruling party. Still, efforts should be made to promote different views of the world so that, in our understanding, the winds of democracy can be brought to the fore in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U171	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U172	Thank you. Political commitments by political parties before the elections did not include an increase in the funding of political parties in 2012. However, all other important promises were made, the implementation of which has been delayed, as there has been insufficient funding for this in the 2012 budget. If this bill were to be implemented as a law, the funding of so-called world-view foundations would be launched this year. Once again, this is in a situation where money has been scarce to implement many of the priorities. Will the funding of political parties actually increase this year if this draft is implemented as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U173	Thank you. When you listened attentively, you realized that one of the fundamental issues of this draft is that foundations must be separated from political parties in their activities and funding. However, political parties can form these foundations. In fact, the foundations formed by the parties represented in the Riigikogu are financed. That's why my answer is no. I also tried to explain in my presentation You can see in more detail what I said in explaining the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U174	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U175	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Peep, I listened to you very carefully. In the meantime, I began to believe that there really was a need to set up world-view foundations and give them legal status, but I do not like the funding of EUR 900000 being taken for this in the middle of the year. What if there's a suggestion that political parties take it out of their money? After all, political parties receive EUR 5.4 million a year from the state or the taxpayer in order to support themselves. These foundations could be made out of that money. Let us simply make a provision in the law that, from next year and from the funds allocated to the party. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U176	I am not expressing personal opinions here, but I am presenting what has been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As I said above, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made its decisions by consensus. Good suggestions such as those that sounded from your mouth, good Lembit, you can make an amendment in the form of a single wolf, although in the same group as the others. We'll find out where the truth is. It is true, as I said, that there have been quite a number of civil societies proposing this. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is of the opinion that it is necessary to fill the gap or niche that these foundations will be dealing with, and it certainly needs to be financed. At the moment, we are of the opinion that such activities could be funded from the state budget. It is not lost money; it is also our responsibility to Estonia in the early years of Estonia's independence, to the countries that have put their resources and energy into Estonia, to carry on democracy, to talk about it and to promote different world views.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U177	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U178	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'll pick up where Lembit Kaljuvee ended up. As a member of the Civil Society Foundation Council, I am genuinely concerned. The state finances more than a hundred NGOs with EUR 1.3 million per year. According to which, for a period of six months, the four foundations have exactly EUR 900000, which is in fact of the same order of magnitude as the total amount allocated to all other NGOs from the Civil Society Foundation during the year. How is that justified? Why not give EUR 2 million, for example, because it would be easier to divide between four, or four million, which would be even easier to share, i.e. every possible foundation would get a million? Why exactly EUR 900000?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U179	But, good questioner, we all decided, together with this year's budget, who voted in favour, who did not vote, who voted against, what the budget for this year would be, including the allocation of EUR 900000. In my report, I spoke to the Ministry of Finance about the data. Those figures were much bigger than you said. I can repeat the records from the Treasury Department. About 7 million euros have been allocated directly to the rest of the non-profit sector operating in Estonia through different areas of government and approximately 67 million euros has been allocated to the 2012 budget for projects and programmes in which they can submit applications.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U180	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U181	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! When I listened to the part of your presentation on the legal status of the foundation, its establishment and the need for it, I really began to believe that such a worldview foundation was needed. But the more and more you talked about financing the foundation and using that money, the less I began to believe that the purpose of using this money could be controlled. I have the impression that this money will be used for party purposes. Can you disprove my argument and if so, how would you do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U182	How would I do that? Still answering from this remote, what other option do I have right now? Let me put it this way: believing is a deep inner feeling for every person in this hall. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the initiator of the draft, has tried to present the draft in such a way that as little as possible of the anomalies and trends you referred to in your question. Whether we succeeded in the first reading by one hundred percent, we need to analyse it together. If it's possible to improve the bill, let's do it. As I said in the report, proposals for improvement have already been received from the Government of the Republic and the Commission for the supervision of the funding of political parties. I would be very pleased if they were also received from political groups and members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U183	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U184	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! It has been said repeatedly here that in 2012 political parties will receive EUR 5.4 million from the state: the Reform Party will receive 1.8 million, the Centre Party will receive 1.4 million, the IRL 1.2 million and the Social Democrats will receive 1 million. There will now be an increase of EUR 900000 through world-view foundations. Hence my question. Do you think that's reasonable? What are the risks of supporting foundations with which political parties are indebted, for example, to the state? Don't you think there's a temptation to mix your wallets? Wouldn't it be better if political parties could pay off debts to the state before they start creating new legal entities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U185	Thank you for this critical reference to your former home party. Other parties should be more or less in line with their debts. Once again, if you read this draft thoroughly, you can see that it has been the will of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to separate political parties and foundations in terms of their activities and also financially. The only link they have is the world view and, of course, the fact that only parties represented in the Riigikogu can establish these foundations. Malevolentness can never be ruled out, no matter how harsh the rules. If you threaten to kill a finger or smack a head, there will still be maliciousness. But our job is to create control mechanisms and give the public the opportunity to control so that this maliciousness can be minimised.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U186	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U187	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a specific question. Paragraph 1219 (4) of the draft law states that a party may establish one of its associated worldview foundations. I understand that every party has the right to establish such a foundation. In paragraph 1222 such an interesting nuance is added that the foundation of the worldview which has been established by the party is represented in the Riigikogu has the right to receive by the fifth date of each calendar month an equal allocation from the state budget and the amount of the monthly provision is one twelfth of the annual amount. This means that those parties who are in the Riigikogu have given themselves the opportunity to receive funding from the state budget, but other parties, be they ten or twenty, must struggle in the market to obtain income. Has an analysis been carried out, or on the basis of which such a provision has been introduced? Please explain what the difference is!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U188	Thank you, Inara! Basically, things are still being confused. Once again, the role of the parties is to form this foundation to promote their worldview and educate people, but the foundation in its activities and funding is rigidly separated from the parties. That is why I cannot answer that question. The aim of the draft is that they should be separated and unambiguously separated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U189	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U190	Thank you, Madam President. I will continue a little in Inara's footsteps, my question is also about the involvement of foundations with the parties represented in the Riigikogu. In itself, there is nothing wrong with educating people. We have only been independent a little over twenty years, and people's perceptions of worldview might really need to be developed. But was it not mentioned in the Commission that legitimate subjects could be all political parties, including the Greens, or anyone with whom such a foundation could be established, so that they could develop their worldview? At present, political parties outside the Riigikogu must rely on the foundations established by the parties represented in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U191	Thank you for a good question. If you are joking, it would be a good incentive for unrepresented parties in the Riigikogu to do a serious job in order to get to the Riigikogu in the future and also to have the opportunity to establish this foundation in order to promote their view of the world more widely. But, seriously, yes, the Commission is currently limited to the political parties represented in the Riigikogu. If there are views that this border could be drawn further, then we must discuss it together. That is what we can do when amendments come. So together, we decide where we draw the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-15_U192	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
