ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the fourth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act. The Government of the Republic will be represented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus when this draft is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U3	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U4	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are currently living under the star of a health worker strike, because it is something that affects each and every one of us in any way. We all have relatives and acquaintances who need medical care, and some every day. In this context, the Centre Party Group has a draft law to pass on. In fact, Estonia has an original resource that could be used to fund the health care system. Our good people consume quite a bit of alcohol, namely 10.2 liters of absolute alcohol per person. With this figure, we are definitely among the five largest consumers in the European Union. We also have 30% of the population who smoke. All these people are paying excise duty. What was the original idea of excise duties on tobacco and alcohol? They were introduced because people who consume unhealthy substances are causing harm to their health and also to the state. The principle is that, if these people are to be treated by the social tax paid by non-smokers and abstinence people, then let them make up for the sums spent by the state when paying excise duty. Unfortunately, right now, excise duty just goes into a black hole. We don't know what they're used for. Consequently, the Central Party Group proposes to initiate a legislative amendment to direct 20% of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco directly to the funds of the Health Insurance Fund. That would be EUR 74 million next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U5	Thank you. I have adopted two draft laws on behalf of the board. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now give the following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the following drafts to the European Union Affairs Committee submitted by the Government of the Republic on 4 October this year. Firstly, Estonia's views on the European Commission's Communication 'Science information better accessible: more benefit from public investment in research' and the Commission's recommendation on maintaining access to scientific information. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Committee on Culture to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the communication and recommendation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 18 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, Estonia's views on the European Commission's Communication 'Strengthening the European Research Area partnership for excellence and growth'. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Committee on Culture to give an opinion on the positions and communication of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 18 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Thirdly, Estonia's views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001/20/EC. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Social Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 18 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Fourthly, Estonia's views on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the Union by means of criminal law. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 18 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Fifthly, a request to the European Commission to initiate enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction taxation. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Monetary Committee to give an opinion on the application. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 11 October 2010 at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the establishment of the European Banking Union and banking supervision to the European Union's Affairs Committee were presented on 8 October and appointed the Monetary Commission to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 18 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we can go to the approval of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. Please, colleague Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U6	Thank you. I have a question about the first item on Thursday, which is a debate on a key national issue. Does the Board of the Riigikogu ensure that this time the texts of the presentations are available to the members of the Riigikogu in good time so that we can prepare for this important point of discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U7	Thank you very much, colleague. Yeah, we know the problem. Hopefully, these materials will be available to you in time. Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U8	Thank you. As the debate has been initiated by the IRL Group, I dare to assure Mr Rummo that, unlike some earlier discussions, these materials really do exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U9	Thank you very much. Let us now go to the adoption of this week's agenda. I will vote on this week's agenda. Please vote! 82 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and no one was against or impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U10	Let's go to today's agenda. The first question to be heard is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Valeri Korbi, Lauri Laas, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Jüri Ratas, Aadu Musta, Kalev Kallo, Viktor Vasiliyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo and Mailis Reps on 4 June this year (No 176). My colleague Kadri Simson of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! We presented this inquiry to you at the beginning of the summer, when the recommendations of the European Commission had just reached Estonia. In particular, at the end of May, the European Commission adopted a package of recommendations on fiscal measures and economic reforms, which set out specific recommendations for each Member State to improve financial stability, growth and jobs. In the case of Estonia, the Commission considers that despite the government budget surplus and the reduction of unemployment by almost half, Estonia's reform efforts seem insufficient. The opposition parties of the Riigikogu have constantly drawn the attention of the Government of the Republic to various bottlenecks in Estonia. The European Commission, in turn, is now drawing attention to a great many of them. For example, in its assessment, the Commission points out that the loan burden of private individuals is very high in Estonia. The private sector's loan burden in Estonia is 160% compared to GDP. Youth unemployment and long-term unemployment are high, as are the risk of poverty for children in unemployed families. The European Commission's document states that Estonia itself has set itself the goal of increasing employment to 76% in the 20- to 64-year-old age group, which means that 38000 new jobs should be created compared to 2009 levels, i.e. bringing 38000 people into the labour market. This could be achieved through well-designed targeted measures targeting young unemployed people, low-skilled people, long-term unemployed and older people, combined with measures to improve childcare services in regions with high unemployment, on the one hand, and under three years of age, on the other. The Commission also considers that Estonia's tax policy is incomprehensible in some respects. For example, the abolition of land tax from the land under housing reduces opportunities for strengthening and diversifying the budget base without undermining economic growth. The Commission is also quite critical of the current parental benefit system in Estonia in its recommendations, as it pays disproportionate attention to the child's first 18 months of life. According to the Commission, the parental benefit system is relatively costly in Estonia, but, as has been said, only pays attention to the first and a half years of life, while the provision of care services for children under the age of three is insufficient. In particular, a high level of compensation leads to distorting effects on the labour market. Less generous and redesigned parental benefits could help to increase labour supply without having a negative impact on the birth rate, while also improving the feasibility of public spending. The Commission also believes that much has not been done to bring people in the group back into the labour market. The Commission will address its proposals to Estonia separately from our tax system, which is known to be different from the tax system of the average European countries. The share of Estonian taxes compared to GDP was 34.2%. This means that we collect a little less tax money than the average in Europe. And the tax system is biased towards consumption taxes. As we know, consumption taxes are unfair taxes, as they tax more people who earn less. The document states that the tax burden resulting from consumption taxes, measured on the basis of the actual tax rate, was 25.6% in Estonia in 2010, which is one of the highest figures in the European Union. We also had a higher percentage of labour taxes than the European Union average: 37%. However, this is counterbalanced by taxes placed on businesses, corporate income and capital resources well below the European Union average. Overall, the effective rate of 9.1% of capital is lower than the EU average, which is 28.8%. We have noted that several international organisations, such as the OECD and the IMF, have also shared recommendations with Estonia. Last week the OECD published a fresh overview of Estonia. It expressed the opinion that Estonia should reduce the pro-cyclicality of its policy. The IMF drew attention to our tax system as early as 2009. That is why it is important to discuss these proposals also in the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U12	Thank you! I beg you, Prime Minister, to answer the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U13	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! Before I start answering specific questions, I would ask the representative of the heirs to clarify whether the Commission has really found that the Estonian tax system is incomprehensible. I would like a specific reference. I would also ask to clarify whether the Commission has actually found that the loan burden of private individuals in Estonia is very high. I would ask for a specific reference to this too. The assessment that consumption taxes are unfair is not an assessment of the Commission but of the representative of the heirs, but I do consider it necessary to note that the whole of Europe is now moving from labour taxation to taxation of consumption and use of resources, so the European Union is moving towards injustice, according to the heir. Of course, I don't share that view. But now I'm gonna answer your questions. Question 1: 'The tax burden resulting from consumption taxes in Estonia was 25.6% in 2010, which is one of the highest in the European Union. Why is Estonia the European Union's highest tax burden due to consumption taxes? When is the Government of the Republic planning to reduce the tax burden arising from consumption taxes? 'The 25,6% referred to in the question comes from the tax review 'Taxation Trends 2012' issued by the European Commission and shows an effective rate of taxation, which in English is implicit tax rate. This means the ratio between receipts and the tax base and is influenced by reduced rates, tax collection efficiency and the share of the shadow economy. In some countries, the effective tax rate may be low because, although highly taxed, revenue is not received by the Treasury due to tax fraud. Estonia is the sixth most important figure in the European Union, i.e. we will have taxes. The comparatively high share of consumption taxes in Estonian tax revenues is targeted. The annual growth report produced by the European Commission also points out that consumption taxes are considered to be less detrimental to growth than labour and capital taxes. Consumption taxes are also more stable in times of economic crisis, with labour market adjustment reducing income and social tax revenues in particular, but consumption levels are maintained through savings. In the competitiveness plan "Estonia 2020', Estonia has gradually reduced taxes on working and profit and increased the taxation of environmental burdens and consumption. As a result, the state budget in tax revenue plans to shift the tax burden from labour to consumption taxation in the future. This will be supported by a reduction in the income tax rate and the unemployment contribution rate in the coming years and by an increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. The OECD has recommended that Estonia reduce VAT exemptions and continue the eco-tax reform, which also increases the share of consumption taxes. The second question: 'The European Commission's assessment mentions that in Estonia taxes on businesses, corporate income and capital stocks are well below the European Union average. The actual tax rate on capital taxes in Estonia is 9.1%, which is well below the European Union average, which is 28.8%. Why has the government, which wants to be like the countries of the European Union in everything, not reviewed the Estonian capital tax system? ' It is certainly unwise to pursue the European Union's average in everything. As indicated in the reply to the previous question, high taxation of capital hampers economic growth and therefore, for example, the debate in Finland is about whether it would not be wise to copy the Estonian tax system or at least reduce the tax burden on companies. According to Taxation Trends 2012 Estonia's share of capital taxes in 2010 was 2.2% of GDP and 6.3% of all taxes, which were the lowest among the 27 countries in the European Union. At the same time, the effective tax rate in Estonia was higher than 9.1%, as already mentioned in Lithuania and Latvia, which suggests that the Estonian tax system collects even more income than some countries with a "normal" corporate tax system. A survey of corporate income tax by the University of Tartu, the Centre for Policy Studies Praxis and the Law Firm Glimstedt in 2010 revealed that the Estonian income tax system is extremely attractive and encouraging, tax management is low in resources and time, which is also indicated by the Commission's review. After the 2000 corporate tax reform in Estonia, investment growth in Estonia has been 39 percentage points higher than in Latvia and Lithuania. It was also found that the reform increased the volume of capital in the economy, consumption and gross domestic product. The third question: 'The European Commission notes that measures aimed at the long-term unemployed and skills upgrading programmes in regions with high unemployment have not been effective in Estonia. What are the specific steps taken by the government to reduce long-term unemployment? " Start with a reminder that the number of unemployed has fallen rapidly. This also applies to long-term unemployed people who have been looking for a job for at least 12 months. Long-term unemployment, which started to rise during the economic crisis, fell from 7.7% in 2010 to 5.3% in the second quarter of 2012. As overall unemployment has fallen even faster, the share of the long-term unemployed has increased. The priority of Estonian labour market policy is to reduce long-term unemployment by preventing the addition of new long-term unemployed and reducing the duration of unemployment. This is also recognised in the European Commission's working document referred to in the inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu, which states, among other things: "The government is working to reduce high unemployment, especially long-term unemployment and youth unemployment, by regularly assessing the situation and updating the measures accordingly, for example by adopting a new employment programme for 2012-2013. ' Progress in the development and supply of labour market services is shown by the steady increase in the share of active labour market actors. While in 2010 there were, on average, 1 in 10 registered unemployed persons, in 2011 almost 1 in 5 and in the first half of 2012. The participation of the long-term unemployed in labour market services has increased. As of the first half of 2012, 75% of the long-term unemployed had participated in labour market services in the previous 12 months. This figure was 67% a year earlier. There has also been an increase in expenditure on active measures. The employment programme will amount to €29.94 million in 2012, with additional funding from the European Social Fund of around €11.51 million and from €31.22 million in 2013. By comparison, active labour market measures amounted to EUR 20.68 million in 2010 and EUR 23.95 million in 2011. The Employment Programme of the Government of the Republic 2012 is a series of new and advanced labour market services that are particularly suitable for preventing long-term unemployment and helping the long-term unemployed to work: counselling to remove obstacles to employment, such as psychological debt and addiction problems, individual placement services, which means motivating job search, assisting in communication with the employer and compensating for additional costs of taking up work, for example for those with a duty to care, a service to support work readiness, which means volunteering and activity in order to deepen a person's work habits and develop his social skills. The conditions for the payment of wage subsidies to encourage temporary and short-term work have also been amended to allow for the payment of wage allowances to the unemployed who have been on account for at least 12 months in the 15 months preceding entry into employment. In regions with high unemployment, job shortages are part of the problem. It is therefore also important to contribute to supporting entrepreneurship. The Unemployment Insurance Fund supports job creation with support for the start-up of entrepreneurship for unemployed people. In the first half of 2012, 350 unemployed people who wanted to start a business have received support. In the regions, the unemployment fund cooperates with local authorities. Within the framework of cooperation, representatives of the unemployment fund and local authorities shall jointly select people to be assisted by their specific problems. When it comes to skills upgrading programmes, the government has constantly increased the volume of labour market training in recent years. In 2011, there were 20658 start-ups, which is 2.4 times more than in 2010, when there were 8563. In the first half of 2012, labour market training was the service with the largest volume: 18000 starters, which means an increase of 2.1 times compared to the same period last year. The benefit has been the training card, which allows for faster and more flexible training to be provided for work than for group training. Since 2011, this threshold has been raised to EUR 2500, allowing for longer and more comprehensive initial training, and can also provide re-training in addition to continuing training. Question 4: 'The costs of parental benefits represent 63% of the total costs of family benefits. According to the European Commission, a high level of compensation leads to distorting effects on the labour market. Less generous and redesigned parental benefits could help increase labour supply without having a negative impact on the birth rate, while also improving the quality of public spending. Why has the government so far not changed the parental benefit system, although opposition parties have repeatedly pointed it out? ' During the economic crisis, birth rates in Estonia have remained above the average level in the European Union, with a birth rate of 1.59 in 2009. In 2008, the coefficient of the event was slightly over 1.6 in Estonia and 1.52 in 2011. This is unlike, for example, our southern neighbour, where, during the economic crisis, family policy measures were withdrawn, including a reduction in the replacement rate of parental benefit, and where the birth rate fell to 1.17 in 2010. The Praxise 2009 study "The impact of parental benefit on the labour market and fertility behaviour' shows that parental benefit has had a good impact. The likelihood of giving birth to women with higher education and working women has increased since the introduction of parental benefit. The results of the analysis indicate that the introduction of parental benefit has motivated working women to have a second and a third child. The analysis also suggests that people have begun to plan their births in sequence more consciously. The proportion of successive births with a birth difference of 1.5 to 2.5 years has increased. Parental benefit has also had an impact on women's labour market behaviour. More and more women work in the year before giving birth and receive social tax income. Higher birth rates and, at the same time, higher female employment are important social policy developments that the government wants to support further. The parental benefit scheme is important for family policy. Making the scheme less favourable gives the family a negative signal and causes uncertainty. In order to ensure a high birth rate, the diversity and complexity of family policies, as well as the stability of the measures used, are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U14	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U15	Prime Minister! In the recent past, not long ago, Estonia joined the OECD. Then it was rhetoric that from there we would receive wise advice and information gathered by developed countries that would help us develop our own economies. Now the OECD has made a number of proposals, including on the tax system, but we do not want to take them into account. The OECD has noted that we have a very high tax burden on the poorest people. What does the government mean: how can we reduce the tax burden on the poorer population?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U16	In order to reduce the tax burden on the poorer population, there is a need to increase the tax-free minimum. This is the most important measure aimed directly at reducing the tax burden on people with lower incomes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U17	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U18	Prime Minister! My question concerns parental benefit, which you also mentioned in your reply. You mentioned the figures with which we are among the European Union's averages, but Statistics Estonia is talking about the natural growth of last year, which is unfortunately negative. There were 565 more deaths than births. Would it still not be wise to listen to the European Commission and to change the parental benefit system a little, whether it is the introduction of another ceiling or the extension of the period? Too much attention is paid to the short period and there are large differences that are paid. One person who earns less is paid less, and another who earns more is paid very much. Wouldn't it make sense to change the system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U19	Any good system can be improved, as can the parental benefit system. The European Commission is not talking about setting a ceiling or extending the period, but the European Commission is talking about making the parental benefit system more flexible. This is also the case for the unemployed. People receiving parental or unemployment benefit could be able to work part-time without reducing the amount of benefit. This is a much wider issue that the government is dealing with. We also have a relatively passive system for supporting people with disabilities. In many cases, the state stops dealing with the person when the support is given and the person receives it. But when someone has lost their ability to work, it does not usually mean that their ability to work is 100% lost. Incentives should be created to ensure that those who have retained their working capacity, for example, 60% or 40%, use it so that they also have an economic interest in doing so. We should, to a greater extent, move from our passive subsidies to the activating of the recipient of the grants. It is probably worth considering the proposal to improve the parental benefit system so that some part-time work can be accepted without thereby reducing the payment of the benefit. When a person writes articles besides babysitting, for example, it helps to keep him on a professional level. We should not punish him in any way by losing some kind of grant because of the bonus.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U20	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U21	Prime Minister! I'm assuming what answer I can get to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U22	But then don't ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U23	But maybe there's still a chance that your views have changed. The question begins again with consumption taxes and ends with changes to the income tax system. The question itself is this. In 2010, the tax burden due to consumption taxes in Estonia was 25.6%, which is known to be one of the highest in the European Union. It is clear that the main problem with consumption taxes is that people with lower incomes pay relatively more. Hence the question: have you not changed your position in the meantime? Perhaps this could be compensated by the transition to a graduated income tax system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U24	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U25	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U26	Mr Prime Minister! The European Commission points out in its document that passenger transport is progressing towards the use of private cars. I have a question, Mr Prime Minister: why are we in Estonia against car tax if it could partly improve this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U27	We tax car owners according to how much they use the car: we tax car owners and environmental damage through fuel excise. Fuel excise is pretty well correlated with environmental damage. The excise duty on fuel, which the driver must pay, is quite well correlated with road damage. We believe that this is the fairest way of charging drivers, which is a good compensation for the costs associated with environmental and road damage caused by passenger cars. In my opinion, car tax in Estonia would not be fair in some ways, as many rural people rarely use cars, once or twice a week. This would be a tax that means a disproportionate burden to the poorer people. That is why we have not wanted to introduce this tax. The same applies to other taxes on capital, on property. We know that our apartment and house owners often have a relatively large loan burden and their ownership is already burdened with various payments. In addition, the introduction of property tax would obviously be unfair in the case of Estonia. European countries are not all of the same history; European countries do not have exactly the same ownership structure. I think that all the Member States of the European Union must and will also take into account the specific circumstances of individual countries. In the case of Estonia, this means that additional burdens on apartment and house owners are not justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U28	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U29	Prime Minister! The European Commission claims that the Estonian state supports children disproportionately. In 2011, the birth rate was lower than in 2010, the birth rate is predicted to be lower than in 2011. However, in a strange way, the amount spent on parental benefit continues to increase. Our salaries are known to have been frozen or even decreased until recently. The only explanation for the increasing amount of parental benefit could be that the ceiling has been raised every year. The European Commission argues that Estonia pays disproportionate attention to the child's first 18 months of life, while the provision of care services for children under the age of three is insufficient. We remember that, with the first budget cut in 2009, the funds from the pre-school institutions were taken away from the municipalities for the creation of small kindergartens. Shouldn't the upper limit on parental benefit be lowered and given more money to develop childcare?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U30	No, you shouldn't. Those who receive the maximum amount of parental benefit are only 5% of all beneficiaries of this benefit. There would be no significant gain or increase in the number of kindergarten places from reducing this ceiling. Yes, childcare is a task for the local government. The state started the programme to create more kindergarten places, but we had to give up the programme developed with the money of the Estonian taxpayer during the economic downturn. But we replaced it with even more money from the sale of pollution units and with the European Union's various support instruments. The claim that local authorities suffered is not correct. That's not true. Local authorities have received a sum of sums of money much more than they hoped to receive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U31	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U32	Listening to you, Prime Minister, I am trying to understand whether you and I are still in the same European Union. Therefore, I ask you quite frankly: what does the European Union mean to you? Is this, above all, an economic union merely with its internal market, or is it also a political union where, among other policies, social policy, for example, has an important role to play?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U33	This is the subject of tomorrow's debate, you must have gotten a little confused. For me, the European Union is, as probably most people in Estonia, important for security policy reasons. I am convinced that the people of Estonia wanted to enter the European Union primarily on the basis of security policy considerations. Yes, we all know that the European Union is not a defence organisation, it is not NATO, but at the same time we know that when the European Union project was launched, it was primarily a peace-building project. The peace-building project is still in force and is the European Union's most important task. Peace is essential for the Estonian people. The Soviet troops left Estonia in 1994 and we remember this memory very clearly. Therefore, the European Union is primarily a peace-building project for me. The European Union is also a very important economic project for the people of Estonia. 70% of Estonian exports go to other countries of the European Union and Estonian entrepreneurs earn income in these countries. Thanks to the fact that we can sell our export products to the European Union without any obstacles, without protectionist barriers, jobs will be created for the people of Estonia and, of course, it will improve the lives of our people. The European Union is also strongly linked to the euro. Thanks to the euro, our interest rates are much lower than those in countries where the euro is not used. The European Union is, of course, also a political union, in which very many rules of shared life are applied. They concern absolutely all the activities that one person can imagine.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U34	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U35	Good Prime Minister! I admit that the Centre Party is not at all uniform in criticising the Estonian tax system, so there are certainly members in the Centre Party who are not in favour of progressive income tax. I admit that the overall financial position of the Estonian state does indeed look good. The one thing that scratches my soul a little bit is that our population has been able to lend itself almost to pieces. The debt burden of the population is 160% compared to GDP. Aren't you afraid, in the context of general price increases and inflation, that at some point people will no longer be able to repay their loans? Has the government been aware of this threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U36	That is the statement that I drew attention to from the very beginning. This text does not talk about private debt and 160%, it talks about private debt and 160%. At the end of last year, Estonia's private debt ratio was 51% compared to gross domestic product. It cannot be said that this is a high level of debt on the scale of the European Union. No, it's more like the smallest ones. In Sweden, for example, private debt is close to 200% of gross domestic product. Private sector indebtedness means corporate debt plus private debt. Private sector indebtedness has fallen dramatically lately, even in times of crisis. This is again the case in comparison with Europe. It is not a very high debt burden either at absolute levels or as a percentage. This document draws attention to what we ourselves have repeatedly stated: the increase in the debt burden during the boom was very rapid, it certainly created economic imbalances, and that is the problem. Because if the debt burden grows too fast, there is no longer much difference as to whether we are talking about private individuals or the private sector, then those who may find themselves in difficulty with servicing their debts will also become debtors. If the growth rate had been lower, debt collection would probably have been much more seriously calculated and the results would have been quite different. Estonia's problem was the rapid increase in the debt burden during the booming period, but Estonia's problem in the European context is certainly not the high debt burden of individuals referred to in the text of the inquiry. This document from the European Commission does not speak of this either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U37	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U38	Good Prime Minister! This may also be a part of tomorrow's topic, but since today we have Estonia's tax policy and the European Union as the subject of our inquiry, I will ask. Recently, much has been said about centralising fiscal policy in the European Union, both in Estonia and in the European Union in general. How much do you believe in the possibility that there will be a time when there will really be a common financial policy in the European Union, i.e. uniform taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U39	No, nobody even planned tax harmonisation. This is the competence of the countries themselves, and it will remain that way. However, I do believe in strengthening fiscal policy rules. As we know, there is a Stability and Growth Pact from a long time ago, but, unfortunately, especially during the crisis, we saw that there were not many countries that respected the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact. Finally, at the time of the crisis, there were only two countries for which the excessive deficit procedure was not initiated: Sweden and Estonia. However, the fact that only two of the 27 Member States did not initiate an excessive deficit procedure does not speak of a very high level of compliance. In fact, in Finland and Luxembourg, it became clear that there were not many reasons to initiate an excessive deficit procedure. So there were a little more than two decent countries. However, generally agreed rules have not been respected. Since compliance with the rules is, of course, necessary, the violation of the rules must be sanctioned. This is certainly in the interest of the European Union as a whole, and it is certainly in Estonia's interest as well. If all countries take on common commitments voluntarily and also with their own interests in mind, these commitments must be met. Partners take into account that all commitments are fulfilled. And if it does not, so that it is more secure, sanctions will also be accepted. I hope that Estonia will never be threatened by such sanctions. At the moment, we are still very, very far away from sanctions. Estonia has only once exceeded the criterion of budget deficits in the last 20 years, which was in 1999, when our government deficit was 3.5% instead of 3%. In all other years, the deficit has been much lower, but in almost half of the years the government budget has been in surplus. Government debt in Estonia is the smallest among the countries of the European Union: 60% is allowed, we have 6.1%. I think it makes sense to keep public finances in good order. The current crisis has shown that some countries are in very serious difficulties, and if granted, it will be extremely expensive. However, the current crisis has also shown that the European Union as a whole pays on average around 3% of its gross domestic product per year as interest on loans. In the case of Estonia, 3% would mean one and a half defence budgets and half health budgets. This money would simply go to banks instead of using it to increase the income of their people. It doesn't always make sense to pay for future generations. In certain cases, where very profitable investments are involved, this is justified, but it is not reasonable to cover the daily costs of debting children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U40	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U41	Prime Minister! These same recommendations from the European Commission relate not only to budgetary measures but also to economic reforms. It seems to me that during the crisis and in recent years at all, the Reform Party has no longer initiated any reform in Estonia. You are repeating every day on this board that we have the fastest economic growth in Europe, while we are also reading the news from day to day that there is no money left for health professionals, no firefighters, no policemen, no education reform, etc. Don't you think, by the end of your reign, we're gonna get into quite a lack of money? The Estonian state cannot earn the money needed to sustain the state. However, the business party is in power. Neither do we see the development of entrepreneurship, and the money is scarce in every area, completely catastrophic.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U42	The best reforms are those that every citizen does not feel very painfully. For example, the most important reforms in times of crisis relate to the labour market. The new Employment Contracts Act works and, in part, thanks to this, unemployment in Estonia has decreased most rapidly compared to the countries of the European Union. We have raised the retirement age, since 2026 it will be 65 years. I am pleased that the need for this reform in Estonia was understood both by the associations of pensioners and by the majority of employees. It is good that people understood why such reforms are necessary. However, I regret that very many people have not noticed the very important changes made to the health system. We remember that in 2009 we increased the patient's own contribution considerably. Before, the patient had only one day's participation in incapacity for work, after the change for three days. In addition, the employer's responsibility arose. Estonia was the only Member State of the European Union until this reform, where the employer did not have any obligations to cover incapacity benefit. Everywhere else in Europe, employers have long been under obligations, and there were no such obligations in Estonia. Since 2009, employers in Estonia cover five days away from work due to illness. In total, it amounts to EUR 60.70 million per year. The largest difference in kroons was the maximum payment of EEK 2.4 billion, as much as EEK 1.15 billion. We have saved several billion kroons for our health care system since the implementation of this important reform. Adding to the use of EU funds to improve our health network, we will receive an additional 2 billion kroons. Many expenses were made during the crown, which is why I am speaking in the crowns. Many say that the health care system has worked in a very sustainable way and that there are therefore reserves there. If we add these two measures to the EU funds plus removing the inability to work from the health insurance fund, we will receive a much higher amount than the current health insurance fund reserves. This is very important in providing additional resources to the health care system. It should be noticed. However, since reforms have not been painful, very many have not at all recognised that reforms have been carried out and, to a very significant extent, additional healthcare funding has been targeted. I certainly do not agree with those who believe that the hospital building and health care are two separate things, that they do not, as a matter of fact, belong together. However, this is a very clearly one of the areas of activity that must be managed optimally. None of us can imagine that when he buys a loaf of bread at the store, he pays the owner of the premises some amount of money first and then next to the baker for his work and flour. Nobody imagines he's going on a plane, paying for the plane first and then the pilot and flight attendant for the service. The same is true of health care. It is very easy to say that we are taking some kind of service out of the health insurance fund and that the problem has been solved. You in the Riigikogu know that there is no way to take it outside the decision-making power of the Riigikogu. The financial cover must always be found for all expenses that are taken out of the sickness fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U43	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U44	Prime Minister! I agree with you that Estonia has made very successful and very large reforms, and we must be proud of that. It is also often said in the media that we have overcome the crisis situation and are on the rise. At the same time, society is increasingly feeling that people's daily lives have become increasingly difficult. Something's going wrong, and more and more people understand it. Do you think we have made any reforms wrong or have we failed to do something? What else could be done in Estonia to make people feel every day that it is good for them to live in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U45	I am certainly saddening many now, saying that according to Eurobarometer surveys, Estonia has the highest satisfaction with the country in the European Union. We are in seventh place after countries with very rich and old democratic traditions. It is quite understandable that dissatisfaction with the country is getting worse in times of crisis, but the Estonian state looks pretty good compared to its fellows. And this is also because of certain specific macroeconomic parameters that give people confidence. But philosophically answering your questions, of course, it must be stated that reforms can always be made better, can be done faster, can be used even more efficiently by taxpayers. Well, that's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U46	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U47	Prime Minister! The faction of the Centre Party recently visited food industries in Põlva County and it was proposed that it would be time to change the value added tax (VAT) on foodstuffs. I know your position from earlier times: no distinctions! However, in some European countries VAT differences apply to food products. What is your opinion on this today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U48	Thank you very much. No more calls. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U49	My opinion has not changed. And if we have one very specific document that is the subject of the debate today, perhaps we would remain within the scope of this issue and refer to a document that says that VAT distinctions in Estonia should be abolished even more, not that they should be created. Tax systems, also in Europe, vary greatly from country to country. In some countries VAT is completely exempt, while in some countries different rates of VAT, including social policy, seek to achieve social policy objectives. Different policies are implemented by stimulating different trends through different VAT rates. This is done, for example, in the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom is probably the best example of Europe in terms of different VAT rates and tariffs. But we have had a simple, clear, uniform and transparent tax system, and that is how it could remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U50	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. I will open negotiations and first call on my colleague, Kadri Samson, to speak on the platform.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U51	I understand that my time for answering questions is limited, and that is why I always rush. But good Kadri Samson! You attributed the European Commission the claim that the Estonian tax system is incomprehensible, and I asked you for a specific reference. I didn't hear that. You attributed the European Commission the claim that the loan burden of private individuals is very high in Estonia. I did not hear from you a reference to the European Commission document on this matter. The references must be correct! If you find the Estonian tax system incomprehensible and you feel that the loan burden is high, then it is perfectly understandable. People understand things or don't understand, know systems or don't know them, but it's not fair to assign your views to others, let's be honest!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U52	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Please, Kadri Simson, you probably want to say a reply!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U53	Indeed, since the Prime Minister took my name in his mouth, I have the right to reply. The European Commission's proposal addresses the private sector debt burden in Estonia, which was slightly below 160% of GDP in 2011 on the basis of consolidated data. While the Estonian state is very proud of its small tax burden, the European Commission says that this 160% debt burden in the private sector still reflects the rapid accumulation of debt in boom years and the financial inability resulting from these loans is a co-face. When the Prime Minister says that 160% of GDP is not a problem for the private sector, he talks a different story than people who have difficulty repaying the loan. Business development has also slowed down as a result. The Prime Minister does not notice that the repayment of these loans is particularly difficult because, in recent times, the government led by the Prime Minister has increased several excise duties and VAT. This increases daily costs and reduces the chances of reducing loans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U54	The situation is that 16028 children were born in Estonia in 2008 and only 14679 children were born last year, but the amount spent on parental pay increases as a snowball. This has not increased the birth rate in Estonia. At the same time, however, the number of kindergarten places is cut down, care allowance and pack allowance are taken away and schoolchildren are not hungry during a long school day, but there is no longer enough to offer a healthy school lunch from school food support a few years ago when our food prices increase. I would also like to talk about what has happened on the labour market in Estonia. The Estonian Government has made a very ambitious plan that 76% of people of working age should work. At the beginning of last year, however, representatives of the government said that there is no good news to be expected from the labour market, but look to the Nordic countries, where Estonians are recruited quite well. We also know that Estonia's one-sided tax system has created a situation where there are no special tax instruments to encourage the return of business to the country. There is no work on Earth, but the efficiency of public transport has led to the fact that it is very expensive to work in a city while living in a country. If you get a minimum wage or a little bit more than that, it may all take a while to get to work. This is how people who are disheartened, who may not be officially unemployed anymore, but have not found a job. I think we should listen to Europe's recommendations. Sometimes the situation is seen more clearly than on the ground. Measures aimed at the long-term unemployed, especially in areas with high unemployment, have not been very effective in Estonia. They should be given more attention. Cooperation with local authorities should be improved, as local authorities see problems most clearly. Municipalities should not be taken as competitors or adversaries at government level, and it would probably be possible to join forces with them in order to ensure that jobs in the country are close to people. There is a great deal to talk about this package of proposals, but unfortunately, contrary to the Prime Minister, who can speak as long as thoughts are in his head, the members of the Riigikogu have a time limit. That's all I can think about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U55	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, would you like to participate in the negotiations? But here you too have limited time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U56	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U57	Ladies and gentlemen, Some time ago, the Prime Minister came to this chair very braviciously. He said that for whom the Estonian tax system is incomprehensible. Unintelligible can mean a lot of things. If the details of tax collection are technically clear, it may not be understood why taxes are collected from those who cannot bear the heavy tax burden, while gifts are given to the most wealthy. I think that, from a technical point of view, the principles of tax collection in countries that use the same tax system as Estonia are also understandable. Technically, you can understand how income tax is collected by the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Georgia, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, Albania, Macedonia, Mongolia, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Belarus and Montenegro. They're collecting their taxes the same way we are. But it may be incomprehensible to those countries that have not wished to make their own fairer tax system, we call it a European tax system, to turn it into one of our own. All the old Western European countries use a tax system where everyone bears the burden they can afford. This means that when incomes are high, they are paid at a slightly higher rate. Such a tax system exists in Europe, for example, in Austria, Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands, Italy and Ireland, Malta and Poland, Portugal, France, not to mention Sweden, Germany, Finland, Great Britain and Denmark. But also in other parts of the world, such as Australia, and after one year of experiment again in Iceland, as well as Norway, the USA, Canada, Switzerland and New Zealand. It is a tax system where it is also thought that a very low-income person should not have the same tax rate as a high-income person, because in this case he could become a poor worker. After paying the state tax, such a person must contact either the local government or any other institution in order to receive the allowance and live until the next payday. When we talk about the European Commission's recommendations, one very clear recommendation to Estonia is that we should take measures to reduce the risk of poverty and reduce the tax burden and social contributions, precisely for people with lower incomes. The Commission has also said that the country-specific recommendation must be repeated and that, in view of the risk of poverty, it is necessary to focus on groups that are particularly vulnerable to poverty. The Prime Minister said that Estonia looks good. True, we can look good in purely technical terms. If the people of Estonia are asked how you are satisfied with your country, then of course we are all satisfied with the Estonian state. We are well aware that the independence of the Estonian state is not something of itself; we must make every day an effort to achieve it. But this does not mean that the people of Estonia should be satisfied with tax policy, which places a particularly heavy burden on people with lower incomes. In Estonian there is only a proverb in the European Union that extols suffering: the Estonian says that whoever suffers will live for a long time. The Estonian voters are very patient, ready to make sacrifices and suffer for us to come out of difficult times. At the same time, however, they do not understand when gifts are given to someone for no reason. I, too, want to talk about the European Commission's assessment that we have some disproportionate spending on money. The Prime Minister forgot that, at the beginning of 2009, when the first negative additional budget for the year was adopted before the anniversary of the Republic, the revenue base of local governments was reduced. According to our constitution, however, one piece of income tax should not be taken away from the municipality, giving the reason that the government simply came up with such an idea. When funds are taken away, tasks must also be reduced. Therefore, on this very February day in 2009, the Pre-school Act was also amended and it was said that municipalities no longer have to be responsible for day-care centres for children under three years of age. The European Commission is now saying that there is a deficit in this area, while more and more money is being allocated to parental salaries. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U58	Let's go to the next question. This is the members of the Riigikogu in Yana Toomi, Eldar Efendijev, Lauri Laas, Olga Sõtnik, Ester Tuiksoo, Valeri Korbi and Tarmo Tamme. a Request for information on the census of the Estonian people and dwellings submitted on 5 June (No 177). Mr. Valeri Korb of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U59	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 5 June, we sent an inquiry to the esteemed Prime Minister asking about the census of the Estonian people and dwellings. In an inquiry, we write that in 2011 a population and housing census took place in Estonia, during which all residents and dwellings in Estonia were counted. As of the end of last year, 1294236 residents lived in Estonia. The previous census, which took place in Estonia in 2000, counted 1370052 people in total. Thus, the number of residents in Estonia has decreased by almost 76000 in 11 years, i.e. by 5.5%. Looking at the number of permanent residents counted by county, it is worrying that the population has decreased in almost all counties compared to the previous census. The number of residents increased only in Tartumaa (0.5%) and Harju County (5.1%). The population has decreased most in Järvamaa and Hiiumaa: 21% and 18.9%, respectively. The age composition of the population has also changed between the two censuses. While in 2000, 18% of the population aged 14 years or less had fallen to 15% in 2011. At the same time, the share of 65 years of age and older had risen to 18%. This figure was 15% in 2000. Statistics Estonia has emphasised that the census is the only study that provides comprehensive statistics on the number of residents in Estonia, the areas and conditions we live in, and what we are like. These results of the survey are crucial for planning Estonia's future development. Although the results of the 2011 census will only be published in full in 2012 and 2013, the reduction in the number of permanent residents is already a clear sign of danger. In relation to the above, we have four questions for the Prime Minister to which we would like to have an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U60	Thank you very much, Mr Valeri Korb. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to speak to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U61	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I cannot stop giving in to the temptation to remind good Kadri Samson once again that private individuals and the private sector are two completely different things. It is not necessary to attribute to the European Commission claims that have never been claimed by the European Commission. But now I'm going to answer your question. [[Kadri Samson's interjection.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U62	There's no line right now! Please continue to answer the question! You two use lines outside. Let's move on, Prime Minister, please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U63	Question 1: 'What conclusions have the Government of the Republic made about the reduction of the permanent population of Estonia? Do you see a problem in the decline in population in almost all counties? '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U64	Yes, please, Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U65	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to speak on the spot when his name is mentioned at the speaker's desk. The name of this matter is not even a reply according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, but a speech and there are two minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U66	Yeah. And according to this law, this possibility is when a person completes his report, but not in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U67	I have relatively little skill in this Rules of Procedure, but I do not imagine that, after each person has been mentioned, the report will immediately be interrupted by replies or speeches. This would be a very special Parliament where something like this is happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U68	You've got it right. That right is true after a person completes his report. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U69	I repeat the first question: 'What conclusions have the Government of the Republic made about the reduction of the permanent population of Estonia? Do you see a problem in the decline in population in almost all counties? ' The results of the 2011 population and housing census published by Statistics Estonia show that the number of Estonian permanent residents has decreased by 5.5%, i.e. 75816 people, compared to the results of the 2000 census. The result of this census was to be expected, given the negative natural age and the balance of migration. At the same time, the reduction in the number of inhabitants counted in Estonia compared to the results of the Latvian and Lithuanian census is significantly lower. In Latvia, the number of permanent residents has decreased by 12.9% in the period between the censuses and 12.3% in Lithuania. It cannot be said that Estonia has a very large decline in the population of counties. Urbanisation is characteristic of all European countries; it is a natural process. The percentage of urbanization in Estonia is one of Europe's lowest 69%. For example, the percentage of urbanisation in Belgium is 97, 92 in Iceland, 87 in Denmark, 85 in Sweden, 82 in the Netherlands and 73 in Switzerland. More or less equal to the level of urbanisation we have with Latvia and Lithuania: 68 and 67% respectively. The second question: 'As a result of registered migration, the population between the two censuses has decreased by 22000 people. The extent to which the loss of population was caused by unregistered migration should be demonstrated by further analysis. How many people do you think belong to the last group, so could it happen that the number of Estonian residents will decrease even further, because Estonians working in Finland have not registered their migration? ' The decline of the Estonian population by 22000 people between the 2000 and 2011 censuses is the result of recorded migration. It can be assumed that there are potential departures from Estonia among people working abroad, but employees in a foreign country cannot automatically be considered as having left Estonia. If a person working abroad regularly visits Estonia, has a family here and supports the family financially, this is a permanent resident of Estonia. On registered migration, our Population Information System has a very good data exchange with Finland. When an Estonian resident registers his or her place of residence in Finland, he or she will receive information about this in the Estonian Population Information System. The census was not about a person's registered place of residence, but about his or her permanent place of residence. Thus, the estimates of Finnish migration are not affected by undeclared labour migration. The census included commuters who work in Finland and have their temporary residence there, who have a family in Estonia and who spend most of their spare time in Estonia. The third question: 'The reduction in the population is justified by a negative natural breeze (population has decreased by 32 000 people) and by registered migration (decreased by 22000 people). Given that the population decreased by almost 76000 people in total, it remains unclear where another 22000 people disappeared. Can we conclude that these 22000 people have left Estonia? ' Compared to the results of the 2000 census, the number of permanent residents of Estonia has decreased by 75816 people, 32000 of which are linked to negative natural iibe and 22000 to registered migration. The remaining around 22000 includes uncounted people and unregistered migration. According to Statistics Estonia, about 2% of Estonia's population remained uncounted in the 2011 census. These data are further specified on the basis of registers and analysed in order to find evidence of uncounted persons who are actually residents of Estonia. The results will be published on an ongoing basis until 2014. Question 4: "What measures is the Government of the Republic planning to take in order to prevent the extinction of the inhabitants of Estonian counties? How do you feel that the results of the census do not clearly indicate the need for administrative reform? " In reply to the first question, I pointed out that the results of the 2011 population and housing census confirm the continuation of demographic trends that had already been known. The free movement of workers is one of the principles of the European Union, and internal migration is a natural phenomenon in the country, and it is neither possible nor reasonable to ban the movement of young people from the country into the city. Over the years, the Government of the Republic has implemented various measures to support regional development in order to ensure that people remain or return to rural areas. For example, more than EUR 120 million has been planned to support regional development in the 2012 state budget, including more than EUR 103 million from external sources. It also provides for a compensatory fund contribution of EUR 72,3 million aimed at supporting local authorities with a weaker income base and providing them with more uniform facilities to serve the population. We have adopted six arrangements in the government to channel EUR 39 million from the sale of unused allowances to local government objects. These are targeted sums used to renovate public buildings, schools, kindergartens, cultural houses, nursing homes, etc., in order to improve the quality and availability of public services. A number of investments are planned to improve the quality of life of Estonian residents, both in urban and rural areas, in the 2013 state budget, which has just been handed over to the Riigikogu for processing. For example, in order to ensure safe and efficient traffic, the state invests some €160 million in roads. The planned storage of local roads is EUR 29,2 million, which is EUR 11,1 million more than this year. This will give local authorities the opportunity to invest more in road maintenance and construction, and to ensure people's comfortable and safer movement. In the field of the environment, the focus will be on investments in modern water supply and clean drinking water, which will amount to nearly EUR 100 million in the coming year. Next year, 40 water management projects will be completed, providing 170000 people with high-quality drinking water and modern water supply. In the field of agriculture, effective production is supported. In 2013, the budget for the payment of exceptional additional direct payments for agriculture provides for EUR 24.3 million, in addition to taking into account the needs of Estonia's regional development in the preparation of the European Union's 2014-20 financial period. I still do not consider it necessary for the state to join the municipalities by force. The importance of local authorities, the most important part being the balancing of central power. I consider the structure of historically established municipalities to be important and, in the interests of better provision of services, I am not going to break it by force. Rather, the State favours the voluntary merger of local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U70	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear colleague, Kadri Simson, do you now have a line or a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U71	Whatever I have to call it to get word. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I respect you, and that is why I think you know the rules of the Riigikogu's home and work.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U72	I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U73	The Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu gives a member of the Riigikogu the right to protest. I would have liked to protest against the Prime Minister's speech because he came to the remote to answer the question about the census, but he took time to put it to me personally. At this point, however, I do not want to dwell on it, because the Prime Minister, who has put away doctors this week, to medical staff, would rather elevate me to it than to me. Leave him be! But you, Mr President, should have given the floor to a member of the Riigikogu, who raised his hand in protesting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to hear what the problem is. The President shall settle the protest or answer the question without delay. You didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U74	You asked for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U75	You didn't solve my protest immediately, you ignored it. Knowing that you know how to work and how to work, I think you were very biased. I just have a request for you as a sympathetic person: don't do that again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U76	Thank you very much. Since there are no questions, thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U77	I'd like to...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U78	No, please! We're done right now. As there is no desire to open negotiations, the debate on this point is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U79	Thank you. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U80	The next question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Lauri Laas, Aadu Musta, Kalev Kallo, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mailis Repsi, Vladimir Velman and Valeri Korb on 30 August (No 183). I would like to ask my colleague, Lauri Laas, to speak to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U81	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, on August 30, s. a received an inquiry from a member of the political group of the Centre Party to the Minister for the Environment. The concern concerns the possible placing of RMK on the stock market. The content of the inquiry is as follows: RMK is a profit-making state agency established in 1999. At the end of July, however, there was an article in the Estonian Päevaleht that the state's hunger for dividends is pushing RMK towards the stock market. RMK plans to significantly increase the volume of investments in the coming years so that the forest does not perish. In particular, these investments go to the construction of ditches and export routes. Craves are needed to improve the growing conditions of the forest and you to transport the material. The company would have the money it needed to invest itself, but unfortunately the state withdraws it as dividends from the company. This year, the state took out 26 million euros of dividends from RMK, while RMK's investment needs would be covered by a 10 million euros lower dividend distribution. According to the Estonian Päevaleht, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi has proposed to take RMK to the stock market. This delay will take a step towards selling one of Estonia's most basic natural resources and state wealth mainly to foreign investors. Our concern on the basis of the information from the article on the Estonian Päevaleht is so great that we have prepared four questions for the Minister for the Environment. Above all, we expect him to calm us down and we should no longer be concerned that RMK will be sold even partially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U82	Thank you very much, Mr Laas. I would ask the Minister for the Environment to calm us down.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U83	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! The second time you will not have to wait long enough to get answers to your questions to calm down, you can also address me directly. I'd be happy to take this opportunity to calm you down. In answer to your questions, I have the following to say. First of all, on your first question, you are making a statement or an assessment that I certainly cannot agree with. The assessment concerns how the state takes into account the investment needs of companies when designing its corporate dividend policy. You will find that the state does not take account of these investment needs. I, on the other hand, confirm that the State will certainly take into account both the investment and capital needs of the companies in respect of the dividends of the companies it owns and that the dividends will still be taken from the companies in such a way that they do not jeopardise the necessary investments. In order to finance investment, companies can use both their own and foreign resources, in other words loans. And if the company's capital structure allows for additional borrowing, it is more appropriate for both the owner and the company to use foreign funds. Let me explain a little bit more about the principles on which such decisions are based in a broader sense. The principle of "alternative cost" or "alternative revenue" is certainly also important for the country. In other words, or explaining it means that state resources must be used optimally, depending on the circumstances, precisely where the state needs these resources most and where these resources generate the highest revenue for the State (not only financial revenues, i.e. income may not only be expressed in money). The same is true for RMK. A better management of cash flows in the state budget of this year, approved by Parliament, provides for the possibility of a repayable provision of up to EUR 20 million, i.e. the granting of a loan to RMK. The second question you had was why the Estonian state should involve private investors in a profit-making company in the first place. The involvement of private investors is certainly analysed for various reasons. For example, in a situation where the state does not now talk about RMK in a particular company, but more generally, because your question concerned public enterprises in general, there is no need to participate in the company on the basis of public objectives and there is sufficient competition on the market. Similarly, it is appropriate to consider the involvement of a private investor in a situation where a company needs to invest in its development in the amount of equity that the State or the owner is unable or unwilling to contribute. This failure may result from a situation where investments are or may involve excessive risks. However, there are certainly other reasons for involving private investors, such as the involvement of the private sector in improving its efficiency, improving its competitive position, developing the business environment and capital markets. So it can certainly be said that when making this decision, it is not only the fact that it is a profit-making company or not. After all, it is simply the price at which the State can involve private investors by selling existing shares or by issuing new ones that depends on making profits. The third question you have put in this way: 'Have you met the Minister of Finance's plan to partially privatise RMK? What do you think of this plan? ' That is now the question of calming down. I have a very short answer to that: the government does not have such a plan. Question 4: Is the placing of RMK on the stock market aimed at ensuring the resources needed to participate in the ESM? " For a long time, I wondered how to answer such a question. Firstly, I am forced to correct you, because it is already purely legal that RMK, which is a profit-making state agency, cannot be placed on the stock market. It is not possible to place a public profit-making institution on the stock market in a purely legal manner. So, unfortunately, it is not possible to answer the arbitrary design you have put forward with your question. At the same time, I have answered the previous question that the government has no intention of privatising RMK, and RMK works well. RMK's task is, among other things, as I have explained and recalled in this Question Time, not only to manage the forest, but also to look after and care for the country's nature reserves. A business could not do so in the form that RMK does. And this action is very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U84	Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. Now the questions. Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Is it possible that you may not be quite familiar with the matter or that certain information about you has been missed? In particular, parents, I'm sorry, I don't think it's appropriate to say that, let's say, some of the more experienced colleagues, I mean Juhan Parts and Jürgen Ligi have been talking about and discussing the benefits of placing public companies on the stock market. They've also touched RMK. This letter, which has come to our attention from public databases, has been sent out of the Ministry of Finance on 19 December 2011. Is it possible that you have been excluded from certain information, or even deliberately excluded, because your position and consistency are also known to your colleagues?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U86	Thank you. Is it possible that you have not read this letter with sufficient precision and have drawn erroneous conclusions? I think it's possible. I strongly recommend that you read this letter to the Minister for Economic Affairs, which really concerns, in particular, national companies, which do not include RMK, in depth. If necessary, the Minister of Finance will also be ready to explain to you what exactly was meant by this letter. In the case of RMK, I will say once again that it is a state profit institution alone, and even if someone has a very evil plan, members of the government certainly do not have it, but if somebody else has such a plan to take it to the stock market, it is not possible. Public profit institutions cannot be placed on the stock market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U87	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister, thank you for calming down the Estonian people! This really caused a deep controversy, and the Estonian people would probably not have accepted it if the forest had gone to the stock market. But now calm the Estonian people down again and tell us what the future salary of the leader of RMK will be. Last time you answered my question in Question Time, you said that you would see that a new competition could be launched. What's the status today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U89	Thank you. You're quoting me again far from exactly. The contract with the Head of RMK will be concluded for the next period, not by the Minister of the Environment, but by the Supervisory Board of RMK, where the Minister of the Environment, or I, does not belong. The Supervisory Board of RMK, which includes quite a few members of the Riigikogu, has held very good negotiations. When we are now talking about the salary of the manager of RMK for the next period, the Supervisory Board of RMK has managed very vigorously to reduce the original candidate for the head of RMK. The Council must certainly be given credit for this. However, I have been critical of whether the agreement reached at the end of the RMK Council is the best agreement in terms of public expectations, particularly in terms of wage levels. I think that this criticism and the misunderstanding that followed the Council's decision have been justified. I think that it would have been necessary and necessary for the RMK Council to take into account, a little more broadly, the level of wages and expectations of society, which are at the level of pay, rather than having a very narrow one-post central approach. But once again, compared to the salary request of the original head of RMK, the Council reduced his salary request to a very significant extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U90	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I, too, thank you for calming this down. You spoke so nicely about how the forest of the Estonian state remains the property of the state and the people. But I'm asking you if there's a plan to privatize another institution or company in your jurisdiction. Perhaps you can enlighten us?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U92	No, it's not. This does not mean that these opportunities and needs are not constantly analysed. But that's not the plan right now. In the case of RMK, I consider it necessary to stress once again that this is not a company, but a profit-making state institution, which is subject to other rules, the functioning of which is laid down in a forest law approved by Parliament. Therefore, RMK is subject to other assumptions and operating principles than the company. A large number of RMK's activities are not for commercial purposes, but for nature conservation purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U93	Thank you very much. No further questions. There are no requests, we are not opening negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U94	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Andres Anvelt, Kalev Kotkas, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütli, Sven Mikeri, Indrek Saare, Jaan Õunapuu, Urve Palo, Rannar Vasiliyev, Helmen Küti, Eiki Nestor, Kalvi Tul, Kajar Lemberi, Jaak Allik, Rein Randver and Neeme on 10 September concerning illegal activities of metal thefts and metal buying points (No 186). My colleague, Andres Anvelt, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U95	Madam President! Madam Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to report to you a number of members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which is based on a serious problem reflected in the Spectator programme a few weeks ago, or more recently a month ago. Namely, metal thefts from infrastructure objects of national importance, such as Estonian Railways, Communications and Electricity. These thefts are particularly dangerous because damaging these objects can lead not only to a stagnation in a particular sector of the economy but to the paralysis of essential services, and even worse, the thefts from these objects could lead to emergencies and accidents. The sad example is that some time ago seven people were killed and many injured in Estonia as a result of the theft of well-holes. In other words, the direct damage caused by the theft may not seem so great at first, but indirectly the accidents and damage caused by them are much higher, more dangerous and more personal. It was also very clear how metal buying offices fully ignored the requirements laid down by law and acquired metal waste for cash, which could in no way be outside the turnover of specialised companies. This means that the metal buying-in offices illegally bought up waste which they are strictly prohibited from buying-in and which may only come from specialised establishments. According to the Waste Act, the Environmental Inspectorate, under the control of the Ministry of the Environment, supervises compliance with special conditions for the collection of metal waste. At the same time, dealing with these hundreds, if not thousands, of metal thefts for obvious reasons is a matter of the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. The current coalition partner of the Minister for the Environment, Minister for the Interior Vaher, has argued that the cutting-off of the possibilities of realising property acquired by crime is a priority in the fight against crime. In the present case, they represent more than one hundred official items in the purchase of metal with their uncontrolled activities, the same criminal realization option. However, the damage suffered in general concerns the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Defence and many other ministries, not to mention private enterprise and local authorities. Hence our question and concern about how cooperation between all the different authorities, one of which is the same Environmental Inspectorate, will work to address this problem. We also have concerns about how to raise the activities of the Environmental Inspectorate to such an effective level that we can stand up to a bad situation at national level as we saw in the 'Spectator' on national broadcasting. I would also ask the Minister to read the questions so that it is better to observe what we are asking and what you are answering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U96	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. Mrs. Environment Minister's speaking desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U97	Madam Chairman! Good heirs! Members of the Riigikogu! As you rightly point out in your inquiry, theft of metal is, in any case, a very serious problem. In this regard, it is certainly not appropriate or reasonable to combat crimes of this kind, which are of an anti-early or public security concern, with environmental measures alone. You also list a number of examples in your inquiry. It can be said that both the removal of the wellholes you have mentioned, the cutting out of electrical cables and the stealing of metal vessels from the farmyard are not so much irregularities in the area of environmental protection, but the most genuine crimes against property or serious violations of public order which cause danger or even damage to human health and also to life, as well as to systems and facilities which are important to the public. So it is important not only to look at the purchase points of metal where stolen goods are bought up, but certainly also from the point of view of whether this is essentially the end point where some experts estimate that illegal metal is legalised similar to money laundering rules. Thus, the joint action of both the police and the Tax and Customs Board and the Environmental Inspectorate is critical to solving this serious problem. Once again, only environmental measures cannot combat a phenomenon that some experts consider to have the characteristics of organised crime and which has undoubtedly a significant negative impact on society. This joint preparation of the raids, planning of joint operations, planning of joint operations are taking place and I can confirm with regard to the Environmental Inspectorate that this is being taken very seriously. But now to your questions. I'll read them, too. First of all, the question: 'Whether the Ministry you manage and the Environmental Inspectorate in its area of government was before 05.06.2012 (I think it has to be September 5th. be aware of the problem of illegal purchase of metal waste? If so, please specify which legislative initiatives in this area have been undertaken by the Ministry of the Environment or the Environmental Inspectorate to normalise the situation and reduce the illegal buying-in of metal waste? ' The Environmental Inspectorate is not only familiar with this problem, but has also dealt with it seriously in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board and the Tax and Customs Board. You are asking about specific legislative initiatives, but the inspection must, of course, act now within the legislative framework that Parliament has proposed, and within this framework, action has been taken. This does not mean that these existing laws will not be analysed. It is being analysed, and I do not exclude that we will come before Parliament with proposals for amending the law. The second question: 'What control measures have the Ministry of the Environment or the Environmental Inspectorate in its area of administration undertaken for such buying-in points in 2011-2012? How many misdemeanour proceedings have been initiated and to what extent have the Waste Law imposed a ban on the purchase of metal? How many times and to what extent has the Environmental Inspectorate applied the confiscation provided for in § 1291 of the Waste Act to companies that have violated the procedure for the purchase of metal waste? ' Once again, control measures are planned jointly with the Police and Border Guard Board and the Tax and Customs Board, with the participation of the Environmental Inspectorate, of course. Tens of infringement proceedings have been initiated during this period, with a specific number of 30, and buying-in points have been checked a total of 170 times. Now, if you compare these figures, more than one visit in six has led to misdemeanour. So far, confiscation has not been implemented, but, as I know, there will be a change in this regard in the near future. The following question: Has the results of inspections and the situation in the purchase of metal been analysed at the Ministry of the Environment or the Environmental Inspectorate and, if so, what are the conclusions of these analyses, action plans or other measures? " The brief answer would be yes, yes, it is. However, the analysis of these visits, joint operations and control results is still the basis for the planning of the following joint operations. You will certainly understand that the detailed future agenda, i.e. where, when, with whom the next joint operations will take place, how they are planned, I do not consider it reasonable to publish. It is probably not very practical and hardly your goal to stop here for a very long time. However, if your question was whether previous inspections would be analysed, then of course this will also be done and the reports that have been submitted to the inspection, the police and also the Tax and Customs Board in the intervening period of these operations will also be analysed. Future plans will be made on the basis of all of this. Your fourth question reads as follows: 'As the area involved in the purchase of metal is linked, on the one hand, to criminal attacks on our essential infrastructure sites and the legality of their activities depends to a large extent on the market for the resale of stolen metal, have you discussed this issue with the Minister of the Interior? Has there been cooperation in other ministries and their areas of government to address this problem and what are the results of this cooperation? ' Again, a brief answer would be yes. As I have repeatedly emphasised above, since this bundle of problems is so complex, only in cooperation can it be solved at all. This cooperation will work between government agencies in the area of administration of different ministries. For example, the last working meeting between the Environmental Inspectorate, Police and Border Guard Board, Tax and Customs Board, Environmental Board and representatives of the City of Tallinn took place a few weeks ago, where it was precisely further cooperation plans that were put in place and agreed to continue joint operations. The last question: 'What steps are you planning to take in the near future to normalise the situation in the market for the purchase of metal waste? Are and what legislative initiatives are you planning in this area and when? ' Details of the following raids and joint operations will be agreed between experts from the Police and Border Guard Board, the Tax and Customs Board and the Environmental Inspectorate. On legislative initiatives, once again, we need to act now within the legislative framework that we have and that the Riigikogu has set for us. But yes, an analysis of whether it is inevitable and necessary to change the legislative framework is ongoing and, as I said in response to one earlier question, it cannot be ruled out that we are coming before Parliament with proposals. I would not like to come up with these possible changes in the details here at the moment, in order to avoid any subsequent ambiguity. Let the various parties who work together to deal with this complex of problems analyse and wait for their concrete proposals, and I will probably get to you as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U98	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U99	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! If money is definitely needed for the evening, a rural man thinks: "Where can I get the money for the evening? I'm gonna get some scrap. " After he has removed the scrap iron, he will receive money in a few hours. However, if the money has already been paid to the customer, the purchaser may not have the will to show the law enforcement authorities this scrap metal. He's putting it away somewhere because he's already paid for it. Hence my question: in this working group, if you are making plans, have you thought of such an option that purchasers would be ordered not to pay up until, for example, a week or ten days later?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U100	I do not currently have the information that this amendment has been discussed. But yes, I suppose this applies to all these possible proposals, if you still have similar proposals, then I suggest that they be forwarded, for example, to the Head of the Environmental Inspectorate. As a political group, you will certainly also have the opportunity to discuss the state of play of the proposals with experts specifically involved in this area. I simply do not have any information at the moment as to whether this proposal has now been dealt with precisely. Obviously, this requires an in-depth analysis of what specifically makes such a change in a situation where, I dare say, the problem is not the old people or the rural people who need money for the evening, but a more complex scheme. But yes, we need to analyse all possible proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U101	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U102	Thank you, Madam President. Austet Minister! As you dealt with the issue, have you also considered the possibility of amending the Waste Act in order to exempt the Environmental Inspectorate from any task of monitoring the purchase of scrap metal? This is not so much an environmental problem, it is a criminal or criminal tangle.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U103	Again, the short answer is no. Environmental requirements must also be guaranteed. Certainly, offences or crimes of an anti-early nature cannot be solved only in the context of environmental inspections. But this does not mean that environmental compliance should not be monitored, certainly must. However, a distinction needs to be made between what kind of solution is the most appropriate. We have not considered this solution so that we take away the obligation of the Environmental Inspectorate to verify compliance with environmental requirements at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U104	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U105	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for these answers. I can honestly see that this problem does not really seem to be a problem, at least as an observer to me, perhaps does not fit into the area of administration of the Ministry of the Environment when we are talking about the people who have died, the sewers, the Estonian Railways, the communication and electrical objects that have been in danger. That is why I am asking: what do you think, purely according to your subjective opinion, who should play a key role in combating such a problem? I mean, what we saw in "The Spectator" and what happened. After all, these metal buying-in points are actually the realization point that the Minister of the Interior has also spoken about in the fight against organised crime. Who should have a "blank" in the fight against such abuse, either the Environmental Inspectorate or the police?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U106	This spike must be divided. It is very easy for me to say that it would be nice for the police to have this spike, because the police should certainly be the main actor for the crimes and crimes against property. But really, this bunch of problems is so multifaceted. There is certainly a problem with the Tax and Customs Board, for example, and in any case with the Environmental Inspectorate. So once again, this is an issue that cannot be classified in just one area or another. If either of these links does not work properly, it is very, very difficult to ensure this control effectively. All the different links must be at a very good level and take this issue very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U107	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Listening to this topic of metal theft, I would like to say that, if you analyze it a little bit, of course, this great time of scrap boom is over and Soviet time is already far away, the edges of the garden have been pretty much cleaned up and the old industrial areas have been cleaned up. That's why the shoe starts to squeeze the citizens who have been involved in metal thefts for years. Now the well hatches, the electrical wiring, and all that. In general, having so many purchasers is probably no longer the most serious problem. It's just that the scrap metal isn't that much anymore. Although this is not a popular issue, it may not fit in with this main direction, but the buyers of metal could still be licensed makers so that they would be responsible for what they actually accept with their license. This company could be controlled.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U109	Thank you. Yes, it is one of the possible future decisions or developments that are currently being analysed by the fact that this could be a licensed activity, where therefore, let us say, the fear of the results of the infringement would be somewhat greater. As has been said, it will be analysed, but I will say it once again: the criminal idea, once again, will probably fly in this form, so quickly and at such heights that it is sometimes difficult for the legislator to catch up with it or to go ahead with it. The first objection to this licensing is that if a licence is withdrawn from one company, a new licensed company will immediately emerge. Yeah, it's still to be analysed, but it's one of the possible developments we're on the move to.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U110	Thank you very much. There are no further questions on this agenda item. Is there an interest in negotiating? Let's open the negotiations. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U111	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, my aim was not to come here, to raise awareness whether the Ministry of the Environment or the Environmental Inspectorate had done something right or wrong, nor to talk about whether metal thefts in Estonia had fallen into history. Unfortunately, they certainly are not. As Mr Tamkivi told us here, it was indeed different in the early 1990s. Today, this problem has reached the yard of every farm. I know it from my own hand, from my family's farm, if there was no one at home there would be, I think, all the storehouses and all the possible holes out of everything that reacts to a metal finder. I'd rather talk about surprises here. Surprisingly, the media often reveals what we experience in our daily lives as a bucket of cold water. We are surprised that such things are still possible in the Republic of Estonia, which has already built up its legal system for 20 years to protect the rights and property of our citizens. Rather, I came here sadly to say that the same passage in 'The Spectator' showed that the authorities of the Estonian state still have a very long way to go in order to cooperate with each other. I even sincerely regretted our Minister for the Environment when he expressed his surprise in the media after the "Spectator" paragraph. If we are talking about hundreds, if not thousands of facts that we read in the newspapers under police announcements, how are entire substations once again drained, let alone the tens, hundreds of farms that are going to rake across Estonia, then really, what can the Ministry of the Environment, the Environmental Inspectorate do? He can draw attention to one deficit or another. But in fact, in our 20-year-built legal system, it can't be a surprise where some kind of stolen and maybe strategically dangerous stuff ends up. He's gonna find his end at the same buy-in point. The Environmental Inspectorate does not really have rights such as the police, nor does it have opportunities like the police for surveillance, nor does it have to identify how one or another of the crimes will come about in our small Estonian market. So I want to wish the Minister for the Environment the strength to normalise this very situation, to improve control, which would be appropriate for one developed country. I would also like to remind several law enforcement agencies here today, such as the Tax and Customs Board, especially the police, that, in fact, the direct fight against crime from the theft to the realization is still a police matter. Hiding yourself behind the label is not the most professional activity. So, strength to you, Madam Secretary of the Environment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U112	Thank you. And I give the floor to the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! I had to come here to sort out a strange moment. You, too, referred to a resounding title, where it was as if I had said that the story of 'The Spectator' opened the eyes of the Environmental Inspectorate. I'd love to see where I've said this or where such a quote is taken from. I have explained at length to the journalist that this was not a surprise for the Environmental Inspectorate, but an area that has long been tried to be controlled, which is constantly controlled. A number of quite serious violations were also detected in the joint operation conducted this spring. So it certainly cannot be said that 'The Spectator', who did a very grateful job with this experiment, would have made known something that no one in the past knew about the Environmental Inspectorate, the police or the Tax and Customs Board. I certainly congratulate 'The Spectator' for taking this experiment, and I also told that journalist. But let's say that the title, as if it were an eye-opening story, remains on the conscience of the journalist who named it. Thank you so much for wishing for strength, you'll need it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U114	Thank you. I am closing the negotiations and so this item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U115	Let's move on to the next question. The fifth question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laasi, Peeter Võsa, Eldar Efendijev, Kalev Kallo, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi, Aivar Riisalu and Mikhail Stalnukhin, submitted on 17 September 2012 about the burning of the largest half-coke hill in the Baltics. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimnus. In the name of the heirs, there will be a speech chair called Valeri Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U116	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, on 17 September we submitted an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment. The topic of the inquiry is the burning of the largest half-coke hill in the Baltics. In an inquiry, we write that in spring this year the first signs emerged that the interior of Kohtla-Järve's semi-coke hill was burning. There was the first burning crater on the side of the mountain, and during the summer a severe fire on the half-coke hill was signaled by a strong sulfur scent and toss rising into the air. However, the Ministry of the Environment did not inform the public about the fire, as all air quality indicators were claimed to be normal. However, according to geologist Erik Puura, the region's ambient air monitoring report highlights the numerous exceedances of the limit values for hydrogen sulphide at monitoring points. In addition to the residents, construction companies are also concerned about the fire. The state of the mountain is so unstable because of the fire that construction companies no longer dare to send their own technology to the mountain because the collapses are unpredictable. In this regard, we have the following questions for the Minister. Why didn't the Ministry of the Environment immediately inform the residents of the fire on the half-coke hill? Does the Ministry of the Environment now know exactly what's burning inside the mountain? What pollutants have been separated from the fireplaces of the semi-coke dump? How do you plan to put out a fire? What are the future scenarios for the closure of the fire? How much can the costs of solving the problems that have arisen become? How and when is it planned to continue the work planned to close the half-coke hill and how will the status of the semi-coke dump be monitored after completion of the work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U117	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus to respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Since the questions were already read out, I'm going straight to the answers. I begin by saying that the glowing of the mountains of Ida-Viru and the semi-coke mountains and the fires there have been known for years. In the long term, it has been observed that the part of Kohtla-Järve's semi-coke hill smokes or steams what anyone wants to call it. The heat and burning in that semi-coke hill were also referred to by the non-vegetable areas on these same stands. Researchers from the University of Tartu who studied the fire at the semi-coke dump at the request of the Ministry of the Environment estimate that heating and burning has taken place for at least 20 years. At present, it is a cooling phase of an intense fire from semi-coke waste. The entire closure process of the semi-coke landfill itself has also been public, from the environmental impact assessment to the award of contracts after the public procurement, which are necessary for the execution of the project. This whole process, which started years ago, has been publicly observable and certainly cannot come to anyone as a surprise. One of the aims of the project is to eliminate air pollution. To this end, the steep slopes of the semi-coke hill are shaped to remove the conditions for the emergence of fireplaces. To date, the burning of an open flame on the surface of the mountain has been suppressed. If your question concerned why no separate notice of fire was published, as you yourself pointed out in your inquiry, there is no risk to human health. However, all data, including ambient air monitoring data, are publicly observable to everyone; they have always been. There have been no changes, therefore there has not been a need for a separate press release. In the second question, you wondered if you knew exactly what was burning inside the mountain. Once again, I can refer to researchers from the University of Tartu who have studied the fire and who believe that semicoke with high organic content can cause the burning of semicoke, including residual oil shale and other industrial waste with high organic content. For chamber ovens used until the end of the 1980s, the organic content of semi-coke was up to 15%. The average content of semi-coke organic matter produced by the oil generators of the currently used so-called Kiviter process is 6% and its likelihood of self-ignition is low. However, due to accidents in the production process or unsatisfactory work, oil shale remains have previously been deposited in stands. I am probably now relying again on the assessment of researchers at the University of Tartu, and there have also been other industrial waste with a high level of organic content, such as oil and pitch waste. According to scientists, it is possible that old sleepers have been stored there. According to experts, combustion is precisely the result of the location of the critical mass of materials with self-ignition potential in an area with steep slopes of semi-coke mountains, where heat accumulation and heating to the temperatures required for self-ignition occurs when oxygen is accessed. This is the assessment of the interior of the mountain by researchers from the University of Tartu. You also asked which pollutants have been separated from the fireplaces at the semi-coke dump. In the case of open combustion of semi-coke waste, sulphur and nitrogen oxide are mainly released from carbon dioxide and water vapour and from environmentally hazardous gases. In the case of partial combustion with limited access to air, sulphur hydrogen and oil gases are released. Once again, I would point out that monitoring data are public and 24 hours observable. They confirm that the burning or glowing of the mountain has not led to any danger to human health. It's under constant surveillance. You were curious about how the fire was going to be extinguished and what further scenarios would be to eradicate the fire. The Ministry of the Environment has commissioned two assessments of the state of the fire. We also asked for an analysis of possible options. We ordered these analyses and assessments from the University of Tartu and the German company DMT GmbH & Co. The latter is a company that has a great deal of international experience in this particular area. In both analyses, the experts considered four options for the liquidation of the fire. The first option envisaged that the material of the burning area should be excavated and moved. This option would be highly risky due to the high temperatures in the burning area, technologically extraordinarily complex and also from the point of view of safety at work. The second option analysed was the conservation of the burning area. For this option, there is a risk that the fire may be passed on to other parts of the cargo despite preservation. The third option was to extinguish the fire by erasing it, which would allow a temporary reduction in the temperature of the hot zone, but would still maintain the risk of creating new fireplaces. The fourth option was to suppress the fire, preventing air access. This option also has nuances to consider. Previously, the very steep slopes surrounding the fireplace must be stabilised, the fire area must be filled with inert material, designed and covered with an airtight coating. Analysis and evaluation were carried out by expert groups irrespective of each other. Both achieved quite similar results. Of the possible four options that I have described, the experts suggest that the fire be suppressed by preventing air access. Geotechnical temperature studies and geophysical studies of the burning area are currently underway. These studies will result in a detailed work programme. It will then be possible to move forward with concrete work. You asked about possible costs. You were interested in how much the costs needed to solve the problems you had. The detailed amount of expenditure can be stated after this work programme has been completed. Right now, that would be very speculative. It is certainly important to know that the contract also provides for the customer's margin to cover unforeseen costs. I cannot say that such situations have been taken into account, but there is a reserve in the contract for unforeseen situations. You asked how and when it was planned to continue the work planned to close the half-coke hill. Work on the rest of the area, which does not include a fireplace, is still ongoing. About 100 hectares of the site are planned to be closed. Since April this year, work has only been suspended in a 2-hectare area surrounding the fireplace. The last question concerned how the status of a semi-coke dump will be monitored after completion of the work. Follow-up monitoring is foreseen for 30 years after completion of the half-coke dump closure project. That's a long time. The programme shall cover the monitoring of ambient air, as well as surface, weak and groundwater, as well as visual monitoring of the cover of the closed landfill and other relevant facilities. For the time being, this is the answer to all the questions. But we will certainly continue the debate on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U119	Thank you very much. There are a number of questions for the Minister. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the plans to extinguish the fire. You said that the experts have offered four options and a common understanding has been reached that the most sensible thing would be to put an end to the fire by limiting air access. Further studies are currently being carried out on how this could be done. What is the time perspective, when these studies will be completed and the actual works will be achieved? When could this fire finally go out?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U121	Thank you. I also mentioned in one response that there is no more open flame burning. Now it's a cooling phase. I think it is important in this area for scientists to be able to do their job without strong time-pression. This, of course, does not mean that it is possible to stall it. But I think it is important that the solution that will eventually be reached is certain, and these plans are so thoroughly analysed that we should not, after a while, reopen and address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U122	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U123	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! Thanks for the answers. On 10 June, Ida-Virumaa newspaper North Coast published an article by journalist Külli Kriis, which tells us that the semi-coke mountains have had more extensive closure work done. But at the end of August, we suddenly found out that the works had led to half-coke burning. On September 20, in the same newspaper, I read the words of Raimo Jaaksoo, chief specialist of the Ministry of the Environment's Waste Department, that it is necessary to map the interior of the mountain with a 'geophysical survey', or to identify possible gaps so that further closure work is safe. ' This project costs more than EUR 20 million. Madam Minister, are you convinced that the preparatory work on the project had been carried out in full?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U124	Thank you. That is the question that I have asked myself: would it have been possible to foresee all this in the course of the preparatory work? But I guess the preparatory work was the same with the scientists. I have no reason to claim that nothing was done or that wrong decisions were made on the basis of that knowledge. The new circumstances that have now emerged have had to be addressed. This response has been rapid. Once again, we have involved experts from outside the Ministry. I think that researchers from the University of Tartu are competent to evaluate how to find the most sensible solution in this very difficult situation. In retrospect, it is easy to be critical of the preparatory work and to say that we should have thought it all through and could have foreseen everything we know by now. I believe that the experts who worked on the preliminary project and also produced the impact assessments took into account all the information that existed at the time. It must be said that this is a mountain that did not reveal all its unpleasant qualities from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U125	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Some time ago, we learned from the press that the closure of this half-coke hill involved the death of a man of science. His life's work had been the landscaping of these mountains. Since environmental issues must be treated with great caution and thoughtful thought, which you probably know, I have the question: how much was used or how much is now used in the life of this man of science, his research? Do you have an overview of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U127	It was an article that, I think, was written rather thoughtlessly. In my opinion, it is not appropriate for any press publication to play with and speculate on the causes of human death in this form. If you wanted to know with your question whether the work of this scientist is still being evaluated and used, the answer is yes. It was a highly valued scientist. The work he has done over the years must also be viewed in this way. But I think the treatment that appeared in that paper was really totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U128	Thank you. Good Minister, there are no further questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The item has been exhausted. Thank you very much to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U129	Next is Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman and Lauri Laas's inquiry into violence in Georgia on 24 September 2012. An inquiry has been submitted to the Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet. On behalf of the heirs, I ask for a speech chair in Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U130	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, This inquiry, which reached the Riigikogu's board on 24 September, shows once again how fast time flies and how quickly things change dramatically in this fast-flying time. If we asked the Foreign Minister questions about Georgia today, they would be somewhat different. I think we may be using this question somewhat more to analyse the current situation in Georgia. But going back to the question, to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs is among us to answer, I will read it once again. When Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili took office in 2008, the President of the Republic of Estonia Toomas Hendrik Ilves emphasised that Estonia is a strong but demanding supporter of Georgia. The President pointed out that Estonia, like other countries of the European Union, continues to support Georgia's reforms towards democracy, civil society and the market economy. On 18 September this year, the Georgian opposition TV channel released a gruesome video in which local prison guards beat naked prisoners and raped them with rubber clubs. The video leaked through a former prison guard who said that prisoners were even tortured by order of the Ministry of the Interior. One of the first features of the rule of law is the recognition of human rights. The humiliation of prisoners in such a gruesome way is shameful and humiliating. This was done in a country whose so-called older brother Estonia has been in. It must be borne in mind that the main victims of domestic violence are the Georgian people, the Georgian state and the democracy of the Georgian state. Thus, if one of the foundations of the rule of law, which is respect for human rights, is deficient, it cannot be said that Estonia has been an overly demanding supporter of Georgia. As a result, we have three questions for the Foreign Minister. How would you assess the recognition of human rights in Georgia? In what way should Estonia behave in the light of these events? The third question, however, sounds somewhat rhetorical today: what kind of advice do you give to the citizens of Georgia in the situation that has developed? This is probably the work of the likely new Georgian Minister for the Interior, Irakli Garibašvili. However, since the final election results have not yet been announced, we are also going to leave this third issue in the air at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U131	Thank you very much. I ask the Foreign Minister of the Chair Urmas Paeti to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U132	Good evening. First of all, the answers to those questions that were asked a few weeks ago. Question 1: 'How would you assess the recognition of human rights in Georgia? ' Estonia, as a partner in Georgia, has supported the development of democracy and human rights in this country; it has made criticism and also offered assistance based on our own experience. The human rights situation in Georgia has been constantly assessed by a number of international organisations, the European Union and Georgia's bilateral partners, as well as national institutions. The work of the Georgian Ombudsman in guaranteeing fundamental rights and freedoms and in drawing attention to the various problems is the best assurance that Georgia has an internal willingness to recognise and resolve the problems. It is now clear that the extremely bad incident described in the question was followed by quite a rapid and thorough reaction. As has been said, Estonia has also been aware of the shortcomings in Georgia's development, which have been highlighted, such as problems with the independence of the justice system, the guarantee of company freedom or the situation of detainees. At the same time, we clearly appreciate all the changes and reforms that have taken place in Georgia in recent years. Both we know and Georgia itself knows that there is a great deal more to be done. As we know here in Estonia, building a democratic society takes years, it is a long process. In the case of Georgia, the environment in which this society must make these changes cannot be forgotten either, the situation in which, you can say, a large part of society has a constant fear of external aggression. At the beginning of the 21st century, it certainly cannot be considered normal for one European society to live in fear to a large extent, nor for some of its territory to be occupied so far, and there are tensions between neighbouring countries that would have a very significant impact on all countries in the South Caucasus if it were to be re-created. We are making assessments here, and sometimes we may also be impatient about Georgia's developments. In fact, it is important to keep in mind the context in which this society has had to develop in recent years. If we look at our development, we must say that we have certainly had the happiness that our neighbourhood is much more stable and peaceful. However, Georgia's objectives are ambitious. In recent years, with the transformation of society, integration with the European Union has clearly taken place. Looking at the Eastern Partnership, Georgia and Moldova are currently the most successful partners of the European Union within the Eastern Partnership. Reforms and the desire to join NATO are also important. So, to sum up, much needs to be done, joint efforts must certainly continue in the future. However, in answering the question directly, I must say that I have no reason to doubt the Georgians' ability to evaluate human rights and fundamental freedoms. We are looking at the parliamentary elections that have just taken place, which, according to international observers, allowed every citizen to express his or her free will, or were generally free. This is also an important assessment of the development of human rights, given the society that this country has come from. Question 2: 'How should Estonia behave in the light of these events? " We have very clearly condemned the abuse of detainees. We have clearly emphasised and stress the need to conduct a thorough and transparent investigation of all the facts relating to this case and to bring those responsible to justice. It is also important that we have drawn attention to this, too, to take steps to avoid such cases in the Georgian prison system in the future. For this reason, as well as for many other reasons, we will continue to help Georgia. He has so far been one of our priority countries for development cooperation and the current development agenda, which is in force until 2015, will continue to do so. More than any other partner country has been booked from bilateral development cooperation instruments. The last question: 'What advice do you give to Georgian citizens in the situation that has developed? " First of all, Georgia is a democratic country in which the people can participate in the exercise of power through elections. Parliamentary elections on 1 October also provided an opportunity to do so. As always in democratic countries, it is the people who are best placed to decide what progress has been made so far and who will be trusted to lead the country for the next few years. The electoral union that won the election, Georgia's Dreams, has confirmed that continuing with the reform of the justice system and bringing to justice those involved in the abuse of prisoners is one of the priorities of their new government. In this sense, the citizens of Georgia here no longer need our advice very much. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U133	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U134	Thank you very much. Good minister! You've met Bidzina Ivanishvili, yes, before the election, and at least once on the phone after the election. Did the likely future Prime Minister of Georgia also talk about his nearest plans, including that he has already been able to say that he intends to start negotiations with Ossetia and those areas on Georgian territory that are not currently under Georgia's control?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U135	I haven't talked to him about Abkhazia and South Ossetia. When we met in Thbilisi in mid-September, this meeting lasted about an hour and a half. During that time, of course, we talked about quite a few things. According to him, Georgia's foreign policy priorities will continue to be an approach to the European Union and NATO, as well as an attempt to normalise relations with Russia. He understood very clearly that the problems of South Ossetia and Abkhazia had to be resolved, but he was not much of an idealist and did not think that these solutions would be very quick to come. We also talked about relations between Estonia and Georgia. On Friday, when I spoke to him on the phone, he said, as at our meeting in Thbilisi, that developments in Estonia in recent years have set a clear example for him and Georgia, and in the future he intends to follow the example of Estonia in his activities in Georgia's politics in many ways, so he does not intend to start inventing a bicycle, but wants to look at the changes and reforms that have been made in Estonia during these times. According to him, his foreign policy programme, as he called it, is no different from what it has been like in Georgia so far. However, there may be differences in some tactical matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U136	Thank you very much. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U137	Thank you. Honourable performer! Listening to you gives the impression that Estonia's so-called assistance in developing democracy in Georgia has become quite fruitful. However, when I read the exceptionally serious articles on the situation in Georgia, published in the last week, one author of which is your party partner Silver Meikar and the other author is Ahto Lobjakas, an unprecedented appalling picture of this democracy was opened. In this very democratic country, false protocols were produced on a massive basis for elections, which the police almost delivered to polling stations, and the people stood before polling stations so that no miscalculations were made. Now we hear a lot of officials packing bags to escape this country...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U138	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U139	The question will come soon. Don't bother me, please! They want to escape because much of the country's assets have been distributed. Now I have a question: was Estonia's action in Georgia fruitful, and are you going to continue on the same course and with the same men? Mart Laar was there, Eerik-Niles Kross...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U140	You've already exceeded ten seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U141	Well, the public interest...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U142	First of all, if you answer the question of whether Estonia's current assistance and support activities in Georgia have been successful, then briefly I will say yes. If the support and assistance of Estonia and many other European countries for democratic reforms over these years had not been successful, then, I would say, the last elections would not have been fair. On the basis of this very fundamental fact, which assesses the level of democracy in one country or another, I dare say that we have made progress in the process of making fundamental changes and shaping attitudes in that country. As I said at the beginning in answering the questions, this road is not over. It is clear that a great deal of serious reforms must continue in this country and, of course, value attitudes, principles, mentality must be shaped. However, this cannot be completed in a few years, given that many generations have had a completely different mentality. The problems can certainly be highlighted, but once again, I would very much like to see any country, including Georgia, and to try to look at the broadest possible context when assessing what is happening there. You named the ballots. For me, the objective and authoritative OSCE and election observers' assessment of what took place is. The preliminary assessment has been that the elections were significantly free and democratic. There were certainly individual problems, but they did not affect the overall picture, the result of the election or the fact that, in principle, all Georgian citizens were able to express their position freely through the elections. It is therefore important that we continue this supporting action and that other European countries continue to do so, so that not only will the next elections be fair and free, but there will be much less criticism and concerns of all kinds that we have encountered before and after the elections on various aspects of life in this country. But once again, I recommend that we consider and take into account the context when assessing the speed of this country and the changes that it has made: there was a war in 2008, there are still tens of thousands of internal refugees, in fact, in society the fear of survival is literally going on. What to deny is that all of this is likely to have an impact on the speed of reforms and on the pace of changing thinking and attitudes of value.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U143	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, In one response, you said that the Estonian state will most contribute to the bilateral relations between our countries or to the assistance of Georgia. Can you tell us how much we are helping Georgia financially and why we are helping Georgia most?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U145	Our development cooperation development plan, our planning work, identifies the main priority countries that have been systematically given a lot of attention for years. This is also expressed in resources. Absolute numbers may be relatively small, but in our circumstances they are still considerable. For example, in this year's budget, we have planned to allocate EUR 400000 to various projects in Georgia. Most of them relate to training, especially training for public officials and diplomats. For example, the Eastern Partnership Centre has a number of direct cooperation programmes between ministries and sectors. But we are also dealing with the mitigation of the situation of internally displaced persons and the relief of those traumas from the war of 2008. Why Georgia? If we look at the countries of destination for development cooperation, as of now, these are all the countries of the Eastern Partnership of the European Union, which have a total of six (in addition to Georgia, Ukraine, Moldova, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Belarus) and Afghanistan. As far as the six Eastern Partnership countries are concerned, the principle is that, above all, we would like to help those countries that are most willing to receive our assistance and where it can be seen that things are moving forward. Georgia and Moldova are clearly ahead of others. Looking at how far internal reforms have come, looking at the conclusion of an association agreement between the European Union and a particular country or a free trade agreement, Georgia and Moldova have been the countries that have most wanted our experience and assistance here. So clearly, these things have gone hand in hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U146	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you very much that you are willing to answer questions that may be slightly out of the scope of this inquiry, because this topic is interesting and now topical. My question, too, maybe a little out of the narrow lines of this question. You spoke earlier about the future relationship between Georgia and Russia and between Georgia and Estonia. But how do you assess the future relationship between Saakashvili and Ivanishvili?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U148	It is no secret that these people have had very strong differences in recent years, which have also been expressed in the political struggle. In this sense, it is now a new situation that Mr Saakashvili is the President of Georgia until the next presidential elections in 2014, Georgia will continue to be a presidential state, as long as constitutional changes enter into force and the transition to parliamentary rule takes place, but the electoral union led by Ivanishvili has won the parliamentary elections. He has, as it stands, a majority in Parliament, or a chance to form a government. Here it remains to be hoped that they will perhaps be able to suppress their certain personal antipathys and cooperate as if it were appropriate in the country that is on the path of democracy. It would certainly help to look around the world in democratic countries a little bit and see how politicians in such systems have been able to suppress their personal ego and still cooperate with others for the benefit of society. There's no other way around here. Public rivalry, which stops or paralyzes the development of this society, is not in anyone's interest; it is least in the interests of the Georgian people. In view of the interests of Georgia's society and people, I do not see any other way than to be very clearly guided here by what is stated in the Georgian Constitution. The President has a role to play, the government has a role to play, and all personal sympathies or antipathy must be left behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U149	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U150	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a technical question relating to the last elections. Did Georgia's last elections also vote electronically and, if so, how many people or what percentage of voters took advantage of this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U151	As far as I know, they chose this time in a classic way, perhaps not electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U152	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. I open negotiations and the word is Enn Frontland. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U153	The victory of Bidzina Ivanishvili in the Georgian parliamentary elections came as both a surprise and a disappointment to many in Estonia. For years, we have been assured that Georgia is moving firmly on the road to reforms, that the people trust in Mikheil Saakashvili and see their future in the European Union and NATO. Not only was Georgia's opposition usually dealt with with political smugs, their protest talks were primarily seen with drunken people whose language boxes were known to have been paid off. Quite little has been said about prominent, highly trained opposition figures, as well as about the concentration of power in the hands of one man, both at national and local level. The opposition's warnings for the disproportionately determining role of the power party have also been overlooked at the levels of statehood that should be independent in one democratic country. I remember meeting with representatives of the Georgian opposition in the Riigikogu. The picture they painted and the evidence they provided were far from responding to our official opinion on the situation in Georgia. Estonia has always pointed out diplomatically that we support democratic reforms in Georgia, not so much Saakashvili. But they were actually quite difficult to separate. He was still a reformer or something. I also remember when Mikheil Saakashvili visited the Riigikogu some time ago. He was confident that the power party would win the election. The President was concerned about the Georgian media, especially private television. Now it seems that the Head of State's concern was justified. The influence of the media is enormous in every country, in transition countries, where there are always more questions than answers, but especially. Today most revolutions start in the media, especially on the television screen. Was it different in Estonia? At first, it is difficult and risky to claim the role that appalling footage from one prison in Tbilisi played in the election results. I'm sure that embarrassing revelation had leverage. There was an unusually fierce war of speech and a media campaign between the opponents before the elections, which cost both parties, even Ivanishvil, a nice amount of money or, rather, a lari. However, what is important is that the elections, which the international observers valued as fair and democratic, took place, and the people could say that they wanted to say what they had emphasised in many popular demonstrations. Another point is the suitability of the election result for decision-makers from different countries. In general, comments have managed to avoid both excessive euphoria and depression. That is also true in Estonia. The signal of Georgian society to its rulers has been highlighted, and the whole world has been told, about the regularity of the organisation of the elections and about the well-considered progress to detail. One way or another, the victory was high on the mountain, the difference between the results of the two opposing camps was close to 15%. As of today, Bidzina Ivanishvili's party in Georgia's Dream will receive 150 seats from the state parliament 83, while the Unified National Movement will receive 67 seats. To date, a few dozen more protests about the repression of the elections have been unsolved. Really, a third of them could reach a longer procedure, which would slightly delay the announcement of the final election results. The final results should be presented by the Central Election Commission on 20 October and the new Parliament could meet 20 days after the election results have been confirmed, i.e. on 9 November. At the same time, the winning party has already formed a committee to hold consultations with the representatives of the current office of Ivane Merabišvili, Georgia. The Commission is led by politicians who will play an important role on the list of the future government of Bidzina Ivanishvili published on Monday. Irakli Alaska is likely to become the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence of Georgia. David Usupashvili will chair the work of the Georgian Parliament as chairman. Irakli Garibašvili is left with the burden of governing the Ministry of the Interior. Maia Pandjikidze, a Georgian Foreign Minister, has represented her country as an ambassador in Germany and the Netherlands, with a proper diplomatic experience. Kakha Kaladze, an internationally most colourful member of the government office, a top football player, is playing alongside other major clubs, even in AC Milan, has performed a brilliant political tribling and is becoming Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U154	Would you like more time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U155	But what exactly do we know about prime minister candidate Bidzina Ivanishvili? The man who came into politics only a year ago is very rich, according to Forbes, he has a fortune of 8.4 billion dollars. He has spent most of his time in Russia, where he studied engineering and economics for years. No one has been able to prove that his computer and cell phone business, and later the metal and banking business, has been misguided or in the face of somebody's powerful machination. Ivanishvili was active and successful in hotel and even pharmacy business. The man who, acting in Russia, used the first name Boris, still has French citizenship today, but he hopes to regain Georgian citizenship. Here's an additional answer to Priit Toobal's question. The Prime Minister candidate Saakashvili, who, according to Ivanishvili, was the main culprit for the withdrawal of Georgian citizenship from Ivanishvili, is reported to be presented by the President of Georgia. In 2010, Ivanishvili finally acquired French citizenship. I guess that leads to the conclusion that these men have a relationship with each other. In any case, Ivanishvili will definitely regain Georgian citizenship. The future Prime Minister has confirmed that he will make his first work visit to the United States. Ivanishvili's private home in Thbilisi was created by the world famous Japanese architect Shin Takamatsu, costing about $50 million. Only recently did Bidzina Ivanishvili's expensive purchases of art come out of the auction. Among others, Georgia's richest man acquired some of Pablo Picasso's original works for a cosmic sum. There are four children in the future prime minister's family. One of his sons, Bera, is Georgia's most popular rap duck. By the way, Ivanishvili's party in Georgia's Dream was named after a Bera Ivanishvili melulu. So there's a kind of singing revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U156	Thank you very much. Any more calls? The Minister has no wish to conclude. Negotiations are closed and the item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U157	After hitting the hammer, all applicants will be able to enroll in a free microphone. After the hammer hit! All right. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U158	Madam President! Sorry, I was in a hurry! Ladies and gentlemen, Now that there's a health care strike going on, a lot of people are frustrated that how so, doctors have sworn to Hippocrates that in any case and always help everyone, but now they're suddenly on strike. You see, there are nuances that have so far not been mentioned for some reason. Hospitals are currently only on strike for services where the volume of contracts is exceeded. Emergency assistance is provided everywhere, but for many services work has been done in advance for a long time. The balance sheet of hospitals will normally be clarified in December, and the number of contracts will be reviewed. In December, there will be a time when there will be no planned reception or scheduled operations, as the volume of contracts has long been exceeded. In December, the sickhouses are waiting, nor does the health insurance fund happen to have a small surplus for services that can be moved from one line to the other, so that some amount can still be recovered over the contract volume. Now it was just not December, but October. It has been said here that suddenly this strike is not legally correct or has broken any law. No, everything is correct, because the contracts have been exceeded. This practice has been going on in Estonia for years. Doctors and nurses, all medics are ethical people, they don't just go to work for pay. It is true that the volume of the contract provides for a certain number of harvests, but if a person comes with pain and should be cut, he will also be cut when the contract is exceeded. When the sick house is full of bed days, but an unscheduled patient with pain is sent there, he will be accepted. That's how doctors work overtime. It's especially difficult for sisters. It is often the case that a nurse makes 24-hour watch, stays at work all day and all night, maybe an hour somewhere on the operating table can take a nap with one eye, but in the morning she is told to be good and work for a few more hours, because the sick need to get drips and do other things that they need to do. He, a good person, will keep working, but he won't be paid for it. These things happen on a massive scale. This is what health professionals are protesting against. They've worked a lot of overtime. Right now, the Health Insurance Fund, by the way, pays hospitals who strike. He will pay for services that are not currently provided, because this work has been done well in advance. But the strike tells us that nothing is good enough to work in a drawer. It's a health fund term that the hospital works in a drawer. The ethics officer and health professional have a different understanding. A healthcare professional says that even if there is an unscheduled illness, I still have to accept it, which is because it is not paid. However, the health officer says that this must not be done, that the contract must be honoured and that no more must be done. Not only is the hospital a company, working over the contract volume is a commercial crime, it is an economic crime, even in the case of a foundation. Formally, it does look different, it's not a real crime, but it still goes against that principle. If the contract is honoured and the sick are still accepted, although no one will pay for it, the hospital will suffer. That's why they're on strike. Ethics for ethics, but where's the limit? When the working day is over and the money is out, and when another patient is admitted after the end of the working day, it is ethical, if another patient is accepted, it is ethical. But what about the third one? Hippocrates don't have to turn the other side of the grave, because we're fighting for ethics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U159	Thank you. Lembit Kaljuvee next, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U160	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Certainly the most serious and important event of last week was the strike of doctors and medical staff, which a couple of nuances of previous speakers spoke so vividly at the remote moments ago. But I moved around in Virumaa last week and I was asked the most about what would happen next year from the electricity that comes from the price of electricity. They said, "Tell me, Lembit, what package do you suggest? What can I do? ' Indeed, last week or the week before, the opening-up of the electricity market in the country was quite seriously an option. Officials tried to correct reproaches and answer questions that people asked. But it is clear that the medical strike was a more powerful event and dampened the debate on electricity in the media. I think they're coming up with more and more of an option. But what did I notice in these discussions? In fact, it is spoken of a change in the market price of electricity of two or three cents, but no one is talking about the substance of the matter, the other part concerning transmission charges and electricity taxes. Our government, our politicians, must deal with this in order to reduce the burden on the people next year on the rise in electricity prices. There is a possibility of this reduction. Today I read in the media that the government has even taken a small step. That's it. But there is no need to take small steps because the government can take seriously big steps. That's why we're here in the Riigikogu Hall, which is why the people have hired us to fight for their rights and for their better lives. We have this opportunity in the committees and also in this Chamber. Two and a half months will separate us from 1 January 2013. When it comes to reading the budget, we will go over all these lines with a finger or a ruler and see what the country can do. The second thing is, let's get things straight, and then we can make good recommendations to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-10-08_U161	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow and good luck! Closure of the sitting at 6.07 p.m.
