ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the sixth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U2	Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U3	The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Traffic Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U4	Honourable Riigikogu, I ask for silence in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U5	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a draft law to amend the Code of Enforcement Procedure on behalf of the Central Party Group. The purpose of the draft is to bring the law on enforcement proceedings into line with the law on the expropriation of immovable property. Pursuant to the expropriation law, the expropriation order can be submitted to the bailiff by the county governor, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications or the Municipality and City Government, but only the decision of the parent of the land is deemed to be an enforceable document in accordance with the Code of Enforcement Procedure. Thus, expropriation is essentially excluded, as the bailiff is not required to comply with the decision of either the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications or the City and Municipality Council under the Code of Enforcement Procedure. The purpose of the draft is also to give enforcement status to the decisions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the City or Municipality Council. These changes bring the two related laws into line and help to avoid confusion and stretching in the construction of objects of particular importance to the state. At present, the lack of consistency poses problems both for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and for cities and municipalities in the disposal of land necessary for the construction of roads. If the Code of Enforcement Procedure provides only for the decision of the Mayor of the Land as an enforceable document in the expropriation proceedings and does not lay down the decrees of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and the decisions of the City or Council as such, the execution of the expropriation shall be excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U7	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 15 members of the Social Democratic Party Group, I will pass on an inquiry to the Chancellor of Justice. A brief explanation. Last week, "The Spectator" was the subject of a court case where a person who lost his parents in a guilty car accident could not receive moral compensation, on the contrary, it turned to his detriment. In an inquiry, we go from a specific court case to a wider area, because for years our court has applied the Section of the Law of Obligations Act, according to which loved ones who have died or suffered severe bodily injury have the right to claim compensation for moral damage only if the compensation is justified by exceptional circumstances. At the same time, the corresponding paragraph of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to compensation for moral or material damage caused to him or her unlawfully. The section of the Constitution certainly reflects constitutional law and can only be limited to some other law or freedom enshrined in the Constitution or to the powers conferred by law. There is no such basis, and that is why we are asking whether § 134 (3) of the Law of Obligations Act is compatible with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U9	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U10	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the nineteen members of the Central Party Group, I am pleased to present an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkogu. On 11 February 2012, the Ministry of Education and Research announced the plan to merge the Estonian Maritime Academy with the Tallinn University of Applied Sciences. On 16 February, the Maritime Advisory Board met to discuss the situation at its extraordinary meeting. It was noted that the National Development Plan "Estonia's Maritime Policy 2011 to 2020," approved by the Government of the Republic last summer, envisages identifying the demand for maritime education in 2013 and confirming the concept in 2014. Therefore, unexpected pressure from the Ministry is incomprehensible. There is talk of technical cooperation with Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, but there is a clear desire to dissolve the Estonian Maritime Academy between three or four faculties. This is known to apply to maritime education, in particular as regards the requirements laid down by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) for ship officers (chiefs and engineer officers). Currently, the Estonian Maritime Academy has Lloyd's Register certificate, IMO recognition and Maritime Administration recognition. When turned into the faculties of Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, these recognitions may no longer apply, so the diplomas of our ship officers become unrecognizable internationally. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U11	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson! Ladies and gentlemen, there is too much buzz in the hall. Let us be more respectful of one another!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U12	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws and three inquiries. If the drafts are in accordance with the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, the Board of the Riigikogu will take them to the proceedings within three working days. If inquiries are in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A draft amendment to the decision of the Riigikogu "Constitution of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe" submitted on 15 February 2004 and appointed it as the leading committee of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft is s. 1 March at 6 p.m. Pursuant to § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Board of the Riigikogu takes decisions by consensus. If no consensus is reached, the member of the board may put the matter to the vote outside the agenda at the Riigikogu meeting. At the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu's Executive Board on 20 February, the Bureau did not reach a consensus on which permanent commission to appoint a commission to the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act. The majority of the Bureau asked the Committee on Legal Affairs to be the lead committee and a member of the Bureau asked the Committee on Social Affairs to be the lead committee. As a result of the foregoing, I shall put this matter to the vote. I shall explain before the vote that the question that is going to be put to the vote is:... Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 18 members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. This enquiry concerns the tax receipts of the Estonian state. At the beginning of this year, it has become apparent that for years, including last year, several foreign companies have been using the lawhole to withdraw quite large amounts of tax-free money. It has become apparent that profits are not reinvested in Estonia, but are lent to the parent company for an unlimited period. There are trends in Estonia that foreign companies probably prefer to take out profits as a loan rather than as a dividend, so the obligation to pay income tax can be postponed indefinitely. In this context, we would like to learn from the Minister of Finance that if the idea of exempting reinvested profits from income tax is to revive the Estonian economy, but this is currently the case in the case of the outstanding profits that the parent company can withdraw as an unlimited loan, who is in the interest of applying such a lawnmower? Has this tax exemption, which has been in force in Estonia for 12 years, been viewed with a critical eye? We know that the Reform Party has a couple of gold eggs that are not seen critically. Has the Ministry looked at how to apply it in such a way that it would also be in the interests of the Estonian state? In addition to these, there are two other questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U14	Thank you. I have a procedural question. The board's decisions are certainly all very wise, but they could also be logical. The same law you mentioned is in the implementing provisions of the Employment Contracts Act, but it is, in fact, an amendment to the Unemployment Insurance Act. We still have drafts in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which the Bureau has previously referred to the Social Affairs Committee and which are talking about changing unemployment insurance. How, then, have two board members made such an incomprehensible decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U15	Thank you. I can answer for myself. I voted in favour of this decision on the basis that the draft is initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. We're going on with this. You have another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U16	Will it always be the case in the future that, if a Commission initiates a draft, it itself will deal with the fact that it may not be dealt with in any other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U17	It is certainly acceptable to deal with it differently, but this is the position on this issue and we can vote on it in this Chamber. Please, Kadri Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U18	Thank you. I'm sure there's no precedent right now. There has been a similar situation during the previous Riigikogu. Once again, I apologize for the miscarriage of the name! Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Are we now setting such a precedent that, if, for example, the Committee on Culture initiates a draft budget amendment setting a fixed percentage for educational expenditure, this draft will no longer go to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but will continue to be dealt with by the Committee on Culture? Is there such a precedent now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U20	Oh, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U21	Samson, for the last three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U22	I don't know how to answer from this board right now, either on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs or on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs. There will certainly be legal consequences in the Commission. Before the vote, I will explain that the question that will be put to the vote is: who is in favour of the proposal by Jüri Ratas that the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act is the Committee on Social Affairs? Those who vote in favour agree that the commission is the Committee on Social Affairs. Who will vote against it would like the Committee on Legal Affairs to be the lead committee. Let us move to preparing the voting procedure. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U23	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would like to ask so that everyone can understand clearly. Are there any differences in the legal consequences that the Committee on Legal Affairs or the Committee on Social Affairs may have following a single draft procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U24	Surely I can't assume that I know what's going on in every person's head sitting in this room. This procedure, which I am conducting here, is based on the decision of the board. We are going to prepare the voting procedure. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U25	Thank you. Are you excluding the possibility that there is someone in this Chamber who would like another committee to be the commission responsible for this draft? If there is a vote against the proposal that the lead committee is the Committee on Social Affairs, you cannot conclude in any way that these people want the Committee on Legal Affairs as the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U26	I have a procedural question. Would the Bureau or the President specify whether there is any difference between the votes of the power union and those of the opposition in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs? What's this about? Is Pomerance a better hand twister than Tsahkna or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U27	This is not a procedural question. We are now putting this matter to a vote. I think we can get to the vote, people are in the hall. Honourable Riigikogu! Who is in favour of the proposal by Jüri Ratas that the Committee on Social Affairs is the committee responsible for the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act? Please take a stand and vote. Results of the vote With a vote of 40 votes in favour, 52 against, 1 abstention, Jüri Ratas's proposal was not supported. The Riigikogu plenary has thus decided that the commission responsible for the draft Employment Contracts Act is the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let's get back to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund were presented on 16 February to the Committee on European Union Affairs and appointed the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Economic Affairs to give an opinion on the position of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. March 7th at 12 noon. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a Estonia's views on draft directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on public procurement submitted on 16 February to the Committee on European Union Affairs and appointed an Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and draft directives. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. March 8th at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; Estonia's views on the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, the Commission for European Union Affairs and having appointed the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the Directive were presented on 16 February. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. March 7th at 12 noon. I have forwarded an inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check! Checking presence 93 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 8. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U28	Now I have such a problem, a procedural one. There's a couple of people here who voted before, but they weren't there now. Didn't we do the presence check at the wrong time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U29	The presence check that we have now carried out relates to the implementation of the sitting. The Rules of Procedure provide for this in the case of drafts. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U30	Was that last vote sitting-free?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U31	I'll use the counselor's help. § 77 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, "Control of the presence of members of the Riigikogu," says: "The quorum of the Riigikogu is determined by checking the presence of members of the Riigikogu. The presence of members of the Riigikogu shall be verified at the beginning of the sitting and before the final vote on a draft law or decision which requires at least a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu." Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U32	Thank you. A majority of the votes on the agenda shall certainly not be required. But since the public, our voters, are watching our presence closely, I ask this question: are the people who voted on the appointment of the commission, but who did not register as present, going to the statistics of the Riigikogu as the people present at today's session or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U33	Yeah, they're going to the Riigikogu statistics. It's all about who voted, and they're here. Please, can we go on? We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda. The Government of the Republic has requested the removal from the agenda of 22 February of the following draft law: 172 of the Defence Forces Service Act (point 10 of the agenda of 22 February), 173 of the draft law implementing the Defence Forces Service Act (point 11 of the agenda of 22 February), 174 of the draft law amending the laws adopted by a majority of the Riigikogu relating to the Defence Forces Service Act (point 12 of the agenda of 22 February). Today's third inquiry into the health requirements imposed on the Minister of Defence's conscripts is not on the agenda due to the illness of the Minister of Defence Mart Laar. I shall vote on the agenda for the sixth working week. Let's start the voting procedure. Looks like people are spread out. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda of the sixth working week of the third session of the Riigikogu, together with the changes listed above. Please take a stand and vote. Results of the vote By 89 votes to 3 members of the Riigikogu, there are no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Let's get to the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U34	The first is Aivar Riisalu, Deniss Borodichi, Ester Tuiksoo, Inara Luigas, Lauri Laas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev and Vladimir Velman's inquiry on the opaque use of PRIA grants submitted on 7 February 2012. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister for Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U35	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Our enquiry concerns the non-transparent use of the PRIA grant funds. The Agricultural Registers and Information Authority (PRIA) is a government institution governed by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Estonia, which collects and processes applications for support for agriculture and rural development and for support for the European Fisheries Fund within its competence, makes the selection of projects and organises the granting of aid. The Office shall be accountable to the Minister for Agriculture, who, through the Chancellor of the Ministry of Agriculture, directs and coordinates the activities of the Office and supervises it in a professional capacity. The activities of the PRIA have been criticised for many years, and the case below describes the Minister's inability to reliably improve the functioning of the PRIA. In 2010, the Southern District Prosecutor's Office opened a criminal case in which Uno Pauts, a member of the Isamaa and Res Publica Association, came under investigation and founded over 1000 hectares of Aardla Poldre with a land improvement company and, allegedly suspiciously, directed a large amount of euro money requested from the PRIA. Postimees of 10 February 2010 writes that unexpectedly the invoices also came into the mailboxes of the owners of the properties of the poldry area, as the law makes the polder, i.e. the forced members of the land improvement company, which is the owners of the dried area that has been dammed for flooding. The so-called coercive members have repeatedly expressed resentment for this situation, but clarity has still not been found in confusion. Since 2005, the Land Improvement Association has received nearly 4 million kroons of support from the PRIA, the largest of which, i.e. 3.5 million kroons, came from the PRIA in 2008. In 2009, the association with 42 members applied for a further 4.2 million kroons from the PRIA. In front of the public, the ETV's "Spectator" programme has led to the suspicion that IRL member Uno Pauts has used this money improperly. The Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder, did not consider it necessary to publicly refute these accusations and limited himself to superficial comments that acknowledged the independence and autonomy of the PRIA. It seems that the Minister for Agriculture does not have any kind of management to control the activities of his subordinates. Four questions have been put to the Minister. We ask the Minister to read the questions and then answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U36	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U37	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would like to thank the questioners for their questioning and to try to answer the questions they have asked. The first question: "What did you do after you examined this case? What changes did the PRIA promise to implement in order to avoid such an opaque use of money? "In the case of the event described in the television programme "The Spectator," which relates to the activities of the Aardla Land Improvement Association, I would argue that the Ministry of Agriculture, the PRIA and the Agricultural Board have been busy for years in obtaining aid from the Aardla Land Improvement Association. In this case, the original identification of the reasons for the refusal to pay the aid and for the recovery of the aid previously paid were the Tartu Land Improvement Office (now Tartu Centre of the Agricultural Board) and the Land Improvement Construction Supervision and Expertise Bureau, which is currently the Department of Land Improvement of the Agricultural Office, so the specialists, not the gentlemen who have appeared on the "Spectator," as you could understand from the programme. In September 2009, these administrations checked the documents and investments made before the payment of the third tranche and found problems. The Ministry of Agriculture considers that the activities of the PRIA in the processing of the application, the verification of investments and the payment of subsidies are sufficiently transparent. The PRIA shall have the right to carry out the monitoring procedure and to carry out the necessary checks on a continuous basis where they are relevant, justified and proportionate to the applicant's eligibility conditions. In developing the conditions for measures, it is important that they are as unambiguous and comprehensible as possible to the applicant. In the light of these principles, it is also necessary to clarify from time to time the rules on the conditions for grants. As a result of the problems posed by the Aardla Land Improvement Association, measure 1.8 was amended last year. "Agricultural and forestry infrastructure' means the conditions by which 100% of all investments are checked before aid is paid. The second question: "How could it be that people were accepted as members of the aforementioned land improvement cooperative and were also burdened with financial obligations? " Paragraph 83 (1) of the Land Improvement Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2003, provides that a non-profit association established before the entry into force of the Land Improvement Act, whose statutory purpose is to maintain the land improvement and which wishes to continue to operate as a land improvement cooperative under the Land Improvement Act, must bring its statutes into line with the requirements of the Statute of the Cooperative Act by 1 July 2006 at the latest. Aardla Land Improvement Association was registered in the register of non-profit organisations and foundations on 31 December 2002, i.e. the cooperative existed before the Land Improvement Act was in force. Next, the Aardla Land Improvement Association wanted to bring its articles of association and activities into line with the Land Improvement Act. To this end, according to § 56 (4) of the Land Improvement Act, the Tartu Land Improvement Office issued a statement on 6 February 2004 concerning the owners of immovable property located in the cooperative's area, whose land has a regulatory network or a common current, and maps of the area of operation. According to § 58 (1) of the Land Improvement Act, the owners of immovable property situated in the area of activity are compulsory members of the cooperative. It follows from the above that the Aardla Land Improvement Association has carried out proper operations under the Land Improvement Act and is a land improvement cooperative within the meaning of the Land Improvement Act, which includes mandatory members. This obligation is the result of a law which should be known to all members of the cooperative, including the gentlemen on the show. As regards the second part of the question, i.e. burdening the members of the cooperative with their financial obligations, § 60 of the Land Improvement Act provides for a contribution to the compulsory members of the cooperative in proportion to the size of the land improvement system on the immovable property or to the length of the common current. The method for calculating this payment, the procedure for payment and the time limit must be specified in the cooperative's statutes. The statutes may also provide for other payments, such as the annual payment of land improvement costs under § 61 of the Land Improvement Act. Thus, the tax which comes from the law or the statutes is compulsory for members of the cooperative. Secondly, according to Paragraph 45 (2) of the Land Improvement Act, the owner of the land improvement system or the person using the land improvement system on the immovable property in his possession must make the land improvement system and the land improvement necessary to ensure that the land improvement system complies with the requirements during its use. Thus, the owner of the land is required to carry out the savings work, regardless of whether the person belongs to a land improvement cooperative or not. However, the reconstruction of the land improvement system or the establishment of a new system is not an obligation for anyone, but it is a good opportunity to preserve and increase the value of their land through collective action. The aid granted to land improvement cooperatives is subject to transparency and legal certainty requirements for these activities. The general meeting must decide whether to apply for the grant. The letter of confirmation attached to the application must bear the signature of the land owner or holder in whose country the investment is to be made, confirming the acceptance of the commitments under the conditions for entitlement to the aid. Under measure 1.8, the application for aid is subject to the condition that the owner of the immovable property or the holder, as a member of the land improvement cooperative, formally informs the holder of his consent to apply for the aid, thereby assuming responsibility for the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the application for and receipt of the aid and giving his signature thereon. The signatures have been given to Mr Ojamaa and Mr Kalve on the confirmation letter. Both gentlemen have signed it in person. Thus, when citizens of Ojamaa and Kalvet claimed that they were unaware of their financial obligations in this regard, they lied. Question 3: "Why did you refuse to comment further on this case on the public television "Spectator" programme? Unanswered questions inevitably give rise to the link that a member of the IRL has obtained a corrupt income, since the Minister of Administration also belongs to the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association. " I did not refuse to comment on this case, but I gave a written explanation to the journalists, most of which were unfortunately not published on the show. Question 4: "What explanation has the management of the PRIA provided in this case, and how much is it likely that the money that has been spent unintendedly will be refunded? "The Ministry of Agriculture has an overview of the rules of procedure and the performance of the tasks assigned to it, and the case has also been dealt with by the PRIA in the usual demanding manner. The certifying authority designated by the Ministry, the audit firm KPMG, has carried out an annual assessment that the annual accounts of the agricultural fund and the rural development fund forwarded to the European Commission are true, complete and accurate in all material respects relating to all net costs incurred by those funds. It also confirms the satisfactory functioning of the payment agency, i.e. the internal control system of the PRIA. The certification audit has also assessed, inter alia, the transactions carried out under Action 1.8 and so far no deficiencies have been identified. For information, I would add that the amount of debts in the PRIA debt register exceeds EUR 100 million is EUR 2,8 million and the number of debtors is 176. One person may also have several debts, so the number of cases is higher. Since 2004, when Estonia joined the European Union, more than 1.49 billion euro grants have been disbursed through the PRIA. Thus, the proportion of debts compared to the amount paid is not high. Problem projects account for around 0.2% of all payments. Let us compare this with other similar agencies, both in Europe and in the Republic of Estonia, that is the best result. Recovery of debts in the event of infringements of grants is consistent and shows the effectiveness of the PRIA control system rather than weakness. Excessive rigour has constantly been accused of the PRIA itself. Finally, in July last year, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) also opened proceedings with regard to the activities of the Aardla Land Improvement Association, which also examined all the facts on the ground at the PRIA. On 27 January this year, OLAF came to the conclusion that, in the light of all the facts and information known to OLAF, it was decided that the Estonian authorities had acted correctly and legitimately in this case. Consequently, OLAF will not take any further action and the assessment of the case will be terminated. In addition, I initiated an extraordinary audit in the Aardla Land Improvement Association case at the PRIA. The auditors consider that the activities of the PRIA are largely in line with the legislation and procedures foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U38	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I would like to thank you for your meaningful answers, and also thank you for making the relevant conclusions of this story and for changing the procedures of the Ministry of Agriculture and the PRIA. But despite spending 4 million kroons, the Aardla Rural Development Association is essentially bankrupt. There was no pumping last year. I'm asking, is anyone finally responsible for this story?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U40	Thank you. The Aardla Land Improvement Association has also been involved in criminal proceedings and is under investigation. These are likely to be inconsistencies and problems between the members of the cooperative. The Ministry of Agriculture is not involved in criminal proceedings as a participant, which is why it is very difficult for me to comment on what is currently known in criminal proceedings and what is being investigated precisely. However, I repeat once again: this is the relationship between the members of a rural improvement cooperative, who have cheated or have not cheated, who, in a sense, have trusted whom, who has failed to fulfil their duties, or who has fulfilled their duties, must be investigated by the investigation. But what I want to say here is that the PRIA has done all the important procedural procedures that it had to do. Moreover, if, in such cases, the rules provide for a prior check of 100% and at least one check before the last payment, the PRIA carried out a prior check and carried out an on-the-spot check before the first payment. When all the necessary operations, the up-to-date work were done, the first payment was made. Before the second payment, administrative checks were carried out and no on-the-spot checks were carried out. Before the third payment, or last payment, an on-the-spot check was carried out again, where shortcomings and work were revealed. As a result, the PRIA decided to recover the money paid out and not to pay out the third tranche. So the PRIA has behaved properly and in a demanding manner. As you said, we have also changed the Minister's regulation in the light of this case, and now controls are mandatory for all payments of investment grants, which will naturally increase bureaucracy and also make it more inconvenient and longer-term for applicants to receive money. However, practice shows that in order to avoid the payment of these individual non-targeted grants, it is reasonable to have 100% control, which is not the norm in other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U41	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm glad to hear that you trust PRIA and PRIA, and that's been reliable. Here's my question. The surface area of the Aardla polder is claimed to be 1270 hectares, of which 15% is used for agricultural production. 7 million kroons of agricultural money has been spent on it. Plus the road construction where this road isn't very used, one million kroons to 3.2 kilometers. Are you going to recover all the money from this cooperative or what are the final developments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U43	Thank you for your question. Not only do I trust, but in addition to me, as you can see, the European Anti-Fraud Office also found a separate audit and verification that behaviour has been done correctly. Of course, I don't understand where you'll find 7 million kroons. I don't know if I can find the exact figures now, but those figures were very different, much smaller, with the Aardla Land Improvement Association. The first payment was in the order of EEK 500000, the second payment, if I remember correctly, was about EEK 3 million, and the third payment, which was not paid out, was also significantly lower. So payouts have been made a little over 3 million kroons, not 7 million kroons. As regards the application of the Aardla Land Improvement Association and the question you put forward that only 15% is used for agricultural purposes, it is up to the Land Improvement Association to decide how it uses the land, in the sense that how intensively it manages it. I just want to point out that the application of the Aardla Land Improvement Association is more important than the fact that the Aardla landfill is located in its immediate vicinity. There is a risk that the waters of the polder area and the Aardla landfill will be mixed and there will be wider pollution and environmental risks. So this object certainly has a greater significance than the agricultural production site alone. In addition, this area of the Aardla Rural Development Association is also limited to the new residential area where people have built their own dwellings, and the flooding of this area is also linked to the regulation of the water regime of the Aardla Rural Development Association. So, of course, the meaning of this territory is much wider than that of agricultural production alone. I think the matter was economically justified, this request in itself, and the PRIA has acted correctly. As regards the relationship between the shareholders of the Aardla Land Improvement Association, as I said, an investigation must be carried out here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U44	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U45	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The press has given the public the impression that things are not in order in the Land Repair Association, and they certainly are not in order there. I know that people who were on TV a few weeks ago have also tried to turn to the PRIA and offered their hands and help to bring one or the other thing out to the PRIA a little more clearly or even to help find solutions. There was also a hearing at the end of last year, but I don't think it's any further. Can you tell me to what extent the PRIA court will recover the money from the cooperative? And you said the third part or the fourth part wasn't paid. How much is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U46	Thank you. There is no provision for the fourth instalment and there does not have to be. There are three payments. Like I said, the first part was paid out. I'm gonna find the money to be exact. The first payment was made on the basis of the declared expenditure documents for an amount of EEK 513200 and an on-the-spot check was carried out before the payment. The amount of the second payment was 3071635 kroons on the basis of the declared expenditure documents. No on-the-spot checks were carried out as the PRIA has no obligation to do so for each payment. It is a duty to carry out an on-the-spot check before the last payment. The amount of the third payment, i.e. the last payment, was claimed to be 224169 kroons. Prior to payment, an on-the-spot check was carried out which established that work previously declared had not been carried out. On the basis of the results of the last on-the-spot verification, the PRIA decided on 19 November 2010 to take a recovery decision, which recovered the grant of EEK 3584836 and the interest to be added to it and excluded the last part of the grants. I would also like to add that, in recent weeks and perhaps in recent months, the PRIA has been approached with questions, but not all enquiries can be answered accurately and correctly by the PRIA, because the investigation is still ongoing and therefore the PRIA is prohibited from issuing information on a number of documents. As I said, an investigation must explain the truth. The PRIA does not require anything in court proceedings, but has now made a claim to the Land Repair Corporation to have those amounts reimbursed. I can't answer that at the moment. Since you also referred to television at the beginning of your question, I would like to say here that, regrettably, this "Spectator" show has proved very tending, I dare say, to be malicious. Did the journalist not understand what he was doing and probably used him, but I do not understand why the Estonian people are being poisoned with such programmes. These images were indeed very emotional. It also showed a pumphouse that was out of order and didn't work. The reconstruction of this pump station, however, was not part of this project at all. Indeed, in the original request, there was also the reconstruction of the pumping station, but it was rejected and not accepted. At the request approved by the PRIA, there was no connection with the pumping station, but the television programme could all be viewed and understood as having received grants for such an object and as if expenditure had been declared. No, that is absolutely not true. And these emotional images of ditches that grew trees and bushes. They were not related at all to this subject and to a specific request. So there was a lot of material there to give the so-called emotional coloring, and it is extremely regrettable that such broadcasts go on at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U47	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The toxicity of the programme is one thing, but it certainly hurts the sense of justice of many people when investigations stretch. This is, of course, not your question at all, and I acknowledge that you are not interfering with the investigation. But I am asking you in general: are the research bodies in this matter, or are there any complex matters relating to land improvement and agriculture that have yet to be asked by the Ministry of Agriculture for any expertise or know-how?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U49	However, I dare say that these cases, which have reached difficult investigations in relation to land improvement cooperatives, are individual, rather precedents, rather than mass. I don't recall anything like that from my time in office. Which doesn't mean there might not be one. But I don't remember asking the Ministry for comments, expertise, analysis. If it's necessary in some cases, we always do, but I don't remember right now. So they're still precedents, individual cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U50	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Indeed, the compulsory membership of the land improvement cooperative is the result of the Land Improvement Act. Should it be appropriate to apply any differences in the financial liability of land improvement cooperatives, for example, to include in the regulation that when a cooperative applies for money, all members of the cooperative sign the application?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U52	Thank you. Yes, the requirement for membership of a land improvement cooperative comes from the law, and that is, in my opinion, correct. Can you imagine a drainage or a drainage ditch, where the beginning and end of the ditch belong to the members of the cooperative, but the intermediate part is not? How to manage a ditch or drainage where some of the members of the land improvement system are not members of a cooperative are not involved in its maintenance, repair, reconstruction? That's not possible. That makes the rest of the work pointless. That is why the law gives rise to such an obligation. As far as financial commitments are concerned, this is very well regulated, as I said in my reply. Yeah, it's supposed to be everybody's signature. This requirement is, and should be, still present. This requirement also exists in the Land Improvement Regulation, which is measure 1.8. And as I told you, both citizens who also performed on the TV show have signed with full knowledge. They were aware of these obligations, they had signed them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U53	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U54	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You yourself said before that the whole area of Aardla polder is very important to the residential district because of the nearby landfill. I'm asking you what's gonna happen now, because there's still a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U55	This must be answered first by the owner of the land, then by the land-repair cooperative, then by the local government and thus by the hanger track. But first, yes, the land repair company has to sort things out and this investigation has to stop. It is necessary to determine whether there are any culprits, whether there are abuses, if there are, who is and who compensates for the damage caused, and then can go on. I don't have a better answer. In particular, the land owners are responsible and the land improvement cooperative is responsible; they still have the main responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U56	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This inquiry is largely based on the information provided in the specific "Spectator" programme, and our discussion here is also based on the information provided by the programme. You said the show on this case was malicious and shared a lot of misinformation. If so, the national broadcasting should not afford anything like this. Have you addressed specific programme makers or national broadcasters on this issue to ask them for explanations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U58	I haven't turned around. I will wait for the results of the investigation and I very much want to hope that they will come within a reasonable time. And if these results are known, I think it would make every sense for me to contact the programme makers so that they would also make some kind of ultimately to the Estonian people about who is then guilty and what really happened there. I hope that this process will not be delayed, and if you were accused of this programme, as if the Minister was somehow obstructing the investigation, it is in no way true. It does not fall within the remit of the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is impossible for us to influence the bodies involved in the administration of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), which controlled this case from Brussels and reached the same conclusions as the Ministry of Agriculture in relation to the activities of the PRIA. So I'm not so capable of influencing processes on an international scale and directing the activities of several ministries, that's not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U59	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister of Agriculture. The first request for information has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U60	We're going to the next question. Members of the Riigikogu Deniss Boroditš, Eldar Efendiev, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Võsa, Viktor Vassiliev, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toom have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang, on 17 January 2012 regarding the state's contribution to the publications. In the name of the heirs, there will be a speech chair at Yana Toom.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U61	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Our questioning concerns the new procedure for the acquisition of libraries' journals. I am not going to talk here for a long time, and I hope the Minister will read our questions too. There are six questions and, broadly speaking, they concern the new regime, according to which libraries now have to buy 50% of the money that the state allocates to them, literary works in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U62	Thank you. I'd like to ask Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Mrs. Toom has made my task more difficult. She'll let me read the questions. I'll get started. The first question: "How do you assess the current procedures for buying information, what were your shortcomings as Minister of Culture? " Let's get a few things straight. There are as many times as there are municipalities in Estonia, or around 230. In total, there are just over 500 public libraries today. So each municipality decides for itself exactly what procedure it will put in place for the purchase of the books, and the Ministry of Culture will not supervise it in any way. If you mean the contractual relationship that the state has with the libraries owned by the municipalities, then everything is done on the basis of private contracts, i.e. the Ministry of Culture concludes private contracts with the central libraries of the county, which are similarly owned by the municipalities. There are two parties who agree, one party gives money and the other party is expected to do some specific work in this regard. Until the beginning of this year, the system was such that the state gave money by contract and the county library gave us statistics once a year. No other obligations were foreseen by the State under this agreement. And in my opinion, that was the greatest drawback of the regime in force, so that money did not have a purposeful use. In the case of new contracts that have been in force since 1 January, we will also write down what should be done with this money as well. That's the difference. That would be the answer to the first question. The second question: "What analyses have led to the development of a new prescription for the purchase of journals? " It is not chewing on the term, but there is no clear precept that must be done with this money. Firstly, it is always possible for counties and county libraries to abandon this agreement, to say that they do not want this amount to be allocated by the State. So it's also the free will of the other side. However, if this is desired, there is indeed a nomenclature from which libraries must make a choice as to where to direct the amount allocated by the state. If you're asking me what analysis it's been based on, it's still the data from the libraries themselves. Once a year we get an overview of how public money has been used. It's an analysis. Second, we are constantly receiving signals from people who want to get one book or another from the library, and this picture is not so rosy. So let's call it an analysis on the basis of which we decided to improve this contractual relationship. The third question: "Was the provision for the 50% use of state-owned journals based on the need for libraries and also readers? " Once again, the word "precept" can be picked on, but well, I don't think that's very important here. In fact, I said this before, and I have always said that all this innovation has been carried out in the light of the needs of our readers. You see, libraries are also used by readers who would like to borrow prose, poetry, newer children's books or even cultural magazines from our own writers. Although libraries have claimed that cultural publications are being commissioned, the real situation spoke a completely different language. For example, the Music magazine was commissioned to a total of 41 libraries, while there are more than 500 libraries in Estonia. The authors of the inquiry certainly know that the library is not just the place to spend time or read newspapers. The library is an institution supporting lifelong learning, which values the Estonian language and culture through the balanced assembly of its collections. Unfortunately, the balance between educating people and entertaining people in libraries is, at least in my opinion, a bit out of place. Finding a classic in public libraries is a problem today. Even the works selected by Honoré de Balzac, for example, are not out on the emergency land, not even in the Tallinn Central Library. In my opinion, it is questionable whether the library, which does not have a single work by Lev Tolstoi outside the school program, deserves the name of the public library at all. We also have many such libraries. Some of the people who have expressed an opinion claim that readers need a showcase, because the works of Estonian writers are not read. I could say that you can't read them if they don't exist in libraries. And how can a child's reading habits be shaped when there are no children's magazines in the library and there are minimal new award-winning children's books? It is no doubt a good thing that a child even reads comics, but it is still the task of the state to stand up for more valuable literature in libraries. Question 4: "Was the representatives of all libraries involved in the drafting of the new precept, and how do they appreciate the precepts? " Again, the word "prescription," which I do not think is appropriate here. I can answer that question, of course, not all librarians were involved; that is not possible. I said that there are over 500 libraries in Estonia. I don't know if we're gonna rent a movie theater's space hall, and then we're gonna start some sort of meeting. But this situation has been repeatedly introduced to the representatives of the libraries. Let me just give you an example. One of these consultations took place on 1 December, where Karl Martin Sinijärv, the chairman of the board of the Foundation's Cultural Website, and Karl Martin Sinijärv, the president of the Writers' Association, participated in the meeting. This meeting not only introduced new principles for the collection of public libraries, but also explained the purpose and expressed the desire of the Ministry to make fiction and cultural journalism more accessible. All representatives of libraries organisations participated in the meeting. All of this has also been presented at a round table in the framework of the "Babel Library," which interested parties could also follow online. Everyone has had the opportunity to share their thoughts. It has to be said here that those people who have disagreed with the Ministry of Culture have tried to express their minds, particularly in the various media publications, rather than in the constructive events that have been organised. In fact, the answer to your question may be genuinely yes. Question 5: "In the Eesti Päevaleht of 4 January, Tuuli Jõesaar states that the new precept ignores the Russian-speaking population, since, for example, in Narva, where there are four percent of people who speak Estonian, the same 50% of the grant is valid. On the basis of the new precept, how should libraries in smaller regions set up their own funds, taking into account the linguistic choices and needs of readers? " Let's put the word "prescription" aside here, but this whole Tuuli Jõesaare claim is now completely irresponsible and in no way true. It is true that the Ministry of Culture takes account of all the target audiences of the library's users and that a library with predominantly Russian-speaking readership does not have to buy the entire 50% of the support from the library, but has been given much more freedom of choice to buy language learning materials and scientific literature for its readers. And such books are also published in Russian. When I look at the names of the signatories, it seems to me that the heart is mostly aching for the library of Narva. Narva belongs to the largest group of libraries, which means that there must be a set of cultural magazines and award-winning books. By the way, it's been done so far in real life. So in this respect, it must be acknowledged that the Narva Library has quite well completed its collections. By the way, the top ten of the Narva library's rentals have always been figured out by the language study books and the Russian Eno Rau Sipsik. So in this sense, the new principles do not bring anything extremely important to Narva's library. However, as regards the fact that the library of Narva has reduced the amount of the purchase of books, I would like to emphasise once more: it is a local government institution, where the basic amount must still come from the local government. There may be state support, but there doesn't have to be, the law doesn't oblige us to give it. In this regard, of course, Narva has not acted very responsibly in recent years. So this question is still primarily addressed to the City Government of Narva and the City Council of Narva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U64	Thank you. We'll get to the questions. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U65	I am very sorry, Minister, but there were six questions in the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U66	But I don't have a sixth. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U67	I'm sorry, I'm in charge now. You will be able to get an answer in this round of answers. Yana Toom, please, I will allow you to ask this question again and the minister will answer. [[Yana Toom will hand over the missing question.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U68	Thank you. Question 6: Have similar state support arrangements been implemented in which countries, and did this increase the number of domestic dictionaries? " I'm not prepared to answer it, but I can tell you what I know. In most countries where the state supports the acquisition of libraries in a way or another, this money has a very clear label. There is no such system, at least I do not know that money is simply given and then it is said that nothing is wanted for it. Most of all, we looked at and studied the Norwegian system, but the Norwegian system is much more complex. This is because the state buys the books before the books, and if the national commission later says that these books were not really worth it, the publishers will have to pay them out. The principle is, however, everywhere that when the state grants support to libraries, it is also accountable for its use. In most countries of the world, libraries are clearly local government institutions, and each local government itself decides what it acquires, to what extent it acquires, how it profiles the library, either as a social institution or as a cultural institution. This is their business and it must also be in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U69	Thank you. I dealt with the current response as part of the report, because there was still four minutes on account of the so-called report. Please, Yana Toom, ask your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U70	I apologize for the little mess, even though it wasn't my fault! Your response gave the impression that you are generally not very satisfied with the choice of our libraries and that you intend to change it by means of certain measures. What should be the result, and how can you begin to measure this result in the future? It is not conceivable that every year 50% of the national allocation goes to buy on the basis of a list, then in five years' time it will be unbalanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U71	Thank you. If the Riigikogu does not adopt any radically changed, completely new People's Libraries Act, then there are not many levers in the hands of the state to influence the principle of assembly. People's libraries are still local government institutions, and each municipality has the right to make the library exactly what it wants, given its specifics. The only thing clearly prescribed by the law is that every local government unit must have at least one public library with an Internet connection and have access to public information within the meaning of the Public Information Act. That's all. Where's this going? I guess he's definitely developing towards digital journals. However, they are not only available from the local library, they are available from their own home computer, and they do not have to be located in a local government institution, but may also be located centrally in some Estonian institutions. But this digital thing is still a very big subject of disputes It's gonna be a very complicated argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U72	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I want to take this opportunity to ask a question and to hear an answer. Let's say the author of Estonia gives up his book with the support of the state, for example through the Cultural Endowment. Does the state provide for general rules on how much goes to libraries, how many schools and how many free sales, or is a specific contract concluded each time between those who take part in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U74	No, there is certainly no such general order. I am thinking of the nomenclature from which libraries receiving state support must make their purchases. After all, there are not books supported by the state or the Cultural Endowment, they are award-winning books. Those are two completely different things. The Cultural Endowment supports an extremely large number of books, but this does not mean that they should necessarily be bought with this money. We are only talking about award-winning works, and this nomenclature is much smaller. What is purchased in libraries, regardless of which funds have supported the origin of these books, is still the relationship between the library and the publisher each time. So libraries and publishers have to negotiate, and in this respect, county libraries act as sort of helpers here. They can be bought more easily, and their ability to negotiate with publishers is better than any one of the 533 libraries.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U75	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U76	Thank you. Dear Minister of Culture, As I can understand from your response, this introduction of a mandatory list of literature does not lead to an increase in the financing of the purchase of library books. At the same time, however, the Ministry of Culture has informed libraries managers that it is the duty of county libraries and city central libraries to keep records of the purchase of books on the list. And so far, if they had to report once a year, then in future, according to the Ministry, the reporting should take place twice a year and the report must prove that certain books have been purchased. This means an increase in workload as well as an increase in operating costs. How do you plan to make it up to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U77	Thank you, good Kadri! I am not going to make up for it, because these expenditures must also be borne within the limits of my own budget. If someone provides support for some kind of activity, it makes perfect sense that they also want to receive a report on what has been done with the support. The second alternative is that you do not want support, you do not need to report either. Indeed, such a situation cannot exist where we simply enter into a contract and do not intend to ask anyone what has been done for this money. And this is not some particular administrative burden that we are talking about. In fact, the introduction of such accounts to libraries is quite marginal. Existing information systems can also be used for this purpose. This is certainly not an issue that should be discussed at length.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U78	There are no further questions for the Minister of Culture. The inquiry has been exhausted. Thank you, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U79	We are going to the third question, which is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Aadu Musta, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Ester Tuiksoo, Inara Luigas, Kalev Kallo, Mailis Repsi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev and Yana Toomi, submitted to regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler on 7 February 2012. I'm asking for a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U80	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. I have a procedural question. The first two inquiries ended with the Minister answering the questions and then you stopped. Has anything changed in working order, is there not an opportunity to give a speech at the end of the speech for the respondents and the minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U81	No one had checked in. I can give the floor to those who register by pressing the button. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, the second procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U82	It was always the case before that the President asked if anyone wanted to give a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U83	Please, what is your proposal now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U84	I just want an answer as to whether our rules of procedure have changed or whether they have remained the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U85	No, our rules of procedure have not changed. However, since no speeches had been recorded, no one could speak, and no one could give the floor to anyone. Mikhail Stalnukhin, I ask you to introduce the third question to your speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U86	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The 13 members of the Estonian Central Party Group have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler, and this is about the use of European Union money. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In January, the National Audit Office prepared a report on the use of European Union funds in developing social infrastructure for municipalities and cities. The National Audit Office audited how local authorities have used the European Union grants allocated to them for investments under the KOIT scheme and on the basis of information and advice centres and open projects of youth centres. The funds allocated to the implementation of the HOME scheme have been available to municipalities for the construction and renovation of schools, kindergartens, cultural houses and so on. The European Union's grant has built and renovated buildings and structures that are used to provide important public services in different parts of Estonia. As a result of the projects, there should be an improvement in the use of services and the number of services provided. However, according to the audit, the overall picture is not so flawless. In the view of the National Audit Office, there are problems in controlling the allocation and use of the grant funds observed in the audit, which need to be resolved for the next funding period of the European Union in 2014 to 2020. At national level, there is currently no precise overview of the location of the local authorities' social infrastructure sites, which makes it impossible to assess how competition between the sites could affect the results of the projects as a whole. The main part of the investments in the KOIT scheme has been made in general education schools, but until now it has not been clear which schools are sustainable in the context of the overall decline in the number of pupils and how this should be taken into account in supporting school investment. Without this, there is no certainty that projects will be supported, the results of which will be seen in society for a longer period of time. In this context, we have four questions for the Minister, the first of which I will read: 'How can it be at all to assess the benefits of projects to renovate general education schools if it is not known which schools will remain active and sustainable? " In addition, there are three other questions. And, as I said, an inquiry has been made on behalf of 13 members of the Central Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U87	Thank you. I ask questions to be answered by regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U88	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since Mr Stalnukhin has read the first question, I would like to start answering immediately. First of all, I quote one paragraph from the audit of the National Audit Office: "As regards the results of projects, the National Audit Office can confirm that the assets acquired from grants were used in the local governments in a targeted way at the time of the audit. In most cases, the projects have also resulted in new public services, which, apart from one exception, were still provided at the time of the audit. Although a large part of the projects have been completed for several years, their results have remained positive to date. " I am also saying that, for the 2004-2012 period (this is the period during which grants have been granted from the HOME scheme), 126 schools have received support from the regional public service development measure, with nearly 30000 children studying. Given that the target group of the measure is local government units located outside the metropolitan area, where 377 schools with nearly 65000 pupils are located, we can say that every third school in which nearly half of the target population students are studying has received support. When it comes to the sustainability of these schools, the issue has arisen in society, particularly in general education schools with upper secondary school levels. HOME Plan projects have been selected taking into account the risks involved, as far as possible. The questionable sustainability of schools and other objects has been one of the most important things in evaluating projects. Both the county councils and the Ministry of Education and Research gave their views on the review of projects in the field of education. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, the results of the project could be considered sustainable if the needs to improve the learning environment of the basic school were taken into account in the reconstruction of the existing secondary school. It is inevitable that, given demographic trends, the number of students has fallen nationwide over recent years, forcing the school network to be redesigned with a view to the quality of school services. However, given the specificity of both primary and secondary school education programmes, it does not matter whether it will later teach parents or some younger children. Students in comprehensive schools also need a pleasant indoor climate and well-lit classroom, versatile sports opportunities in the outdoor stadium and in the school gym. If we were to plan investments based on the fact that during the lifetime of the investment we would then take 20, 30 or 50 years to do so, there should be no change in demographic, social or economic conditions, then obviously no investment could be made. If, however, the most negative scenario for a school house in some cases is to be realised and the basic school level is to be lost, given the important position of the school house in the social activities of smaller communities, opportunities have been created to allow space to be used in the future in the provision of other public services. We already have examples in Estonia where former school buildings have become the centre of the village's activities. The library is concentrated, leisure and gathering opportunities have been created. The second question: "Has the evaluation of projects so far led to an increase in regional disparities because more able municipalities are able to write more successful projects? " In short, the answer is yes and no. This contradiction may be due, in particular, to the fact that we have more capable municipalities and less able municipalities in each region, that our municipalities are often relatively small in geographical dimensions and that they do not 'prevent' regional influences. The regional division of the HOME scheme grants has taken into account the proportion of the population of the counties, i.e. that each county has guaranteed the amount of the aid if there is any continuation of eligible applications. And the experience is that the eligible applications have continued. Rather, there has been a problem that competition is very hard, that there are many more applicants and that the applications are larger than the grants can be awarded. Projects are evaluated by experts who know the county and local circumstances, by ministries and sectoral self-government associations, and by experts who examine construction projects on a random basis. In the case of public infrastructure investments, the selection of the project shall be based in particular on their impact on the local population and the durability of the results. On the other hand, the capacity of municipalities, in terms of both quality labour and budgetary resources, will certainly play an important role in applying for grants. It has been difficult for very small municipalities to find both self-financing and people who can write applications and keep the whole business in order. If you look at the geographical map of the distribution of subsidies, we see relatively few white, uncovered spots. It is natural that regional attraction centres receive somewhat more support in absolute terms. If we look at the situation as a relationship between the population of the region, we can certainly say that smaller regions have received more subsidies. At the same time, regional support cannot aim at a uniform layer of support money, as you can put on bread. We need to look at where people are actually moving, within what limits their areas of operation are, and when designing programmes for the next period of support, we are looking at it even more than before, because the current parish borders, unfortunately, have a rather indirect link to people's daily lives. The third question: "The state audit makes an observation in its audit to clarify the definition of beneficiaries to be used to measure the results of projects for the next funding period. In your reply to the National Audit Office, you have also promised to do so. How do we intend to clarify the principles for taking account of the beneficiaries in particular? " We still have a valid beneficiary calculation methodology. This will enable the target groups of schools and kindergartens to be taken into account in the most accurate way. Namely, the target of beneficiaries will be the actual number of school pupils or kindergarten children and multiplied by three. We also have relatively few problems in counting the beneficiaries of social and health care facilities in homes, patients at the family doctor's centre, etc. The number of beneficiaries for cultural and sporting objects is more interpreted. Local authorities have usually taken into account all residents of the region in this area. However, it is unlikely that all of these opportunities will be used, and many residents rarely use them. As an example, there are several dance and singing circles in the cultural centre, but many people who live in the municipality may visit the cultural house once every few years, if there is an interesting concert. To draw an exact line between the two extremes and decide who to consider a beneficiary is relatively difficult, especially in a situation where users of a cultural house are not registered in this sense. We are getting back to the fact that, strictly within the borders of one municipality, it is not right to determine the number of beneficiaries, people are moving in a much larger area. But in answer to your question, we are also going to specify a guide on how to count more specific beneficiaries for cultural and sporting objects. From now on, there is a desire to take into account the regular users of the service. For example, in the case of cultural houses, the number of members of continuous circles, plus the number of halls, shall be considered as beneficiaries. In this way, specific types of objects would also become somewhat more comparable in the sense of the beneficiaries. Question four. "Why hasn't a map application on the location of the local governments' social infrastructure sites been developed so far and will be started only after the recommendation of the National Audit Office? Hasn't it been considered important before? " All kinds of card applications, though more attractive, attractive or passive, could probably be created forever. But, unfortunately, the companies offering these kinds of applications would be the ones who would be most delighted about it. The fact that the state, ministries or municipalities do not have any information where the objects are located is certainly not relevant. I have often had to disprove the claim, for example, that the state does not have an overview of which schools are to be held by Estonian municipalities. The Ministry of Education and Research has a very clear and concrete overview of this, separate registers and everything like that. It is difficult to disprove such generalized words that there is no overview, but if we look specifically, on a case-by-case basis, then the public authorities will know. The information is available both at the county level and in the ministries of the field. In recent years, social infrastructure has been closely mapped in the context of thematic plans for rural social infrastructure. These maps are available in rural governments and have been commissioned by the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of them by national pools of social infrastructure. The location of school and kindergarten objects is visible as a map application in the Estonian education information system. We agree in principle with the National Audit Office that the general picture of social infrastructure must be available. At the same time, the point is whether and in what form it is appropriate to create a visual and functionally functional map implementation portal for the public, taking into account the potential cost of drawing up and managing technical solutions of this type. There were four questions, I've answered everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U89	Thank you very much. You also have questions about the floor. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U90	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In answer to the third question, you spoke about how easy it is to define the concept of beneficiary when it comes to school or kindergarten, and how difficult it is to do so when it comes to club or nursing home, etc. However, I would like to clarify: can we get a clearer concept of beneficiary from you for the next period, i.e. before 2014, as the National Audit Office has offered us in its audit report?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U91	Yes, as I have replied to you, we are going to specify a guide on how to count more specific beneficiaries for cultural and sporting objects. I also suggested one possibility that, for example, in the case of cultural houses, the number of members of continuous circles, plus the number of halls, should be considered as beneficiaries. This is one proposal, and it must certainly be formulated more precisely in the next call for proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U92	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Regional Affairs! You mentioned that when assessing the benefits of renovation of schools, it is particularly a question of upper secondary school buildings, because your party partner, the Minister of Education, is planning a reorganisation of the upper secondary school network. It is precisely with regard to the closure of maal upper secondary schools that this is certainly very closely linked to your work area. Therefore, I would like to know whether you, as Regional Minister, agree that an upper secondary school is viable if it is able to display three parallels in each upper secondary school class, or if you stand for having children within 15 kilometres of this upper secondary school being the only way to receive secondary education, such upper secondary schools would be exempted and maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U94	As far as I know, the Minister for Education and Science has also said that exceptions are necessary. It is clear that in Hiiumaa there must be a gymnasium regardless of how many parallels can be formed there at the moment. Is that a criterion? In my opinion, this is still a point of discussion on how much distance there must be. But as a parent, for me too, the first criterion is still the quality of education and then the distance comes. As a parent of five children, I can assure you that I prefer that my child spends a little longer time on the bus, but gets a better education, that school is very close to home, but education gets worse. With regard to the specific plan of the Minister for Education and Research, it makes more sense to ask him himself, but as I have already said, he has also provided for exceptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U95	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U96	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! It turns out that the National Audit Office was not satisfied with the subjectivity of these decisions. Do you agree with this decision yourself? If there is preparation for the future period, can it be foreseen that something will be rethinked in this area or that the decision-making level will remain in the county in the context of the HOME Plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U97	Thank you. That's a good question! That's a painful thing. In the same way, we want to follow as much as possible the principle of subsidiarity and bring decisions as close as possible to the beneficiaries. This is why, for example, in the last round of the KOIT scheme, the composition of the county evaluation committee was proposed by the county governor and the result of the evaluation also required the coordination of the local self-government association. In the case of Järva county, this result, for example, was re-evaluated as no other coordination of the regional self-government association was obtained. In one way, it is very nice that decisions are made close to users, as I said, because the situation in the county is best known on the ground. On the other hand, as was pointed out in the audit, the accusations and suspicions that, in popular terms, local people simply agree that evaluation can become less objective if it gets closer to the beneficiaries. The truth is obviously here somewhere in between. There is no way that one extreme is perfect and the other is bad. I think that in the next period we could think like this. If it has been decided that there will be so many or certain types of upper secondary schools in the county, then they will be schools of general education or other, so many cultural houses or other objects, nursing homes, if it is agreed that so many places would be needed in that county, such as so many objects, then the call for applications will be made in this way. It is said that we support two such objects in this county, for example, and within the county we can then decide what the two are. Otherwise, it may really happen that everyone understands that two are needed, but four are supported, because all municipalities consider that such an object should be located on the territory of their municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U98	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I will continue with the previous question, I would like to clarify. What was the basis for your choice, whether the position of the Ministry of Education, which educational buildings should be supported and invested in, or the local government's position and strategy, the development plan that was put in place there? There is still a very large difference between the positions of the Ministry and those of the municipality. What was the basis for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U100	When we are talking about upper secondary schools, at the moment when the applications for the KOIT scheme were processed and evaluated, there was not yet the proposal that the Minister of Education and Science is currently shaping. Objects that received support in 2005 were also audited. On the other hand, if we look at the support received in 2005 and so far it has been used, perhaps someday the situation will really change in the future, but these years have already gone ahead, as I quoted at the beginning of the audit. In the case of upper secondary schools, however, the picture will be greatly clarified in the near future. In the case of comprehensive schools, there are no major, drastic changes currently foreseen. No one has said that, neither the members of the government nor the political parties in the Riigikogu have, in my opinion, called for a very large change in the number of basic schools. I believe that basic schools will be more or less the same number as they are now. It's probably going to shrink a little bit, but not at a very fast pace. What did the relevant ministries think at the moment we asked for an opinion? When it comes to schools, the Ministry of Education and Research basically gave a positive opinion that schools could be supported almost in all cases. There were very few exceptions that were thought to be unsustainable. Rather, the attitude was positive that it would continue, if not as an upper secondary school, as a primary school.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U101	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We all know that many local authorities have received funding for investments, infrastructure development, etc. through the KITE Plan. We also know that certain objects remain untapped due to the continued decline of the periphery population. Has the Minister for Regional Affairs started mapping sites that are already empty or empty? What's gonna happen to these buildings in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U103	When we talk about the key to our support programmes, I do not know the kind of object that would have received regional support measures, such as the HOME Plan, support and would have gone to closure. When we talk about this topic more broadly, as far as I know, Obinitsa School was closed, which is now used as a cultural centre for various activities. In the summer, children's camps are held there. So one building owned by the municipality can also find other applications. I also referred to the fact that some upper secondary schools probably continue primary schools. However, if, for example, the school were to disappear at all, it does not mean that the investment made could not be used if the municipality had properly repaired the building.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U104	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, My question is that the application forms or application forms for various funds that share money are very different. Perhaps the harmonisation of these forms, while, of course, preserving the specificities of the funds, would help local authorities to make more efficient use of the money and also provide greater synergies in the use of the money. Do you think it would be possible to harmonise the application forms for all these funds, KIK, Innove and others?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U106	Yes, it would probably be possible to harmonise the logic of the submission of applications so that these forms are at least more similar. The problem will remain, of course, because each measure has its own purpose and, therefore, very different things are assessed. Here is an example, which is now much talked about, that an object can be a very successful cultural object and, at the same time, an unfulfilled tourist object, which is exactly the same object. Different information may therefore be needed under different measures. It has also been seen in life how the same object is attempted to be presented under different measures and, depending on that, completely different aspects of the same object are presented. But I agree, it would probably be possible to harmonise the application forms of these implementing bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U107	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U108	Thank you. Mr. Minister! There is a lot of money in the KOIT scheme now, because the municipalities do not have any ownership. What solution could it have because the deadline is starting to fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U109	Thank you. That's a serious question. As a result, the application of some objects is slowed down. When we are talking about the euro money for this period and, specifically, the HOME scheme, for example, the first round was a lot of joy in the pursuit of money and in the procurement of construction. Construction contracts were cheaper, money was left over and the joy was great. When submitting applications for the second round, the municipalities evidently considered that construction prices were cheaper. The reality was that prices on the construction market increased strongly. For example, the HOME Plan provides for a maximum amount of support, a much more expensive construction price is shown in the procurement carried out by the municipality, and the difference is actually short of money. I'm not happy to say anything here. We don't have any spare money anywhere so we can help someone out or start growing aid for individual objects. We have reserve items and basically all available support funds have been distributed among the items. What's the solution? However, the solution is, first of all, that the increase in the cost of construction must be clearly covered by an own contribution, which means an increase in own resources or a loan. The second option, where we have tried to meet the local governments as much as possible, is to review the activities, i.e. to try to do things on a smaller scale in order to make construction procurement cheaper in some way. In this regard, we must bear in mind that, under the European requirement, the objectives as a whole must be achieved, the object must not remain incomplete, it must be ready and put into service, otherwise the euro support must be repaid at all. In cooperation with the EAS, we have negotiated quite a lot and found ways to reduce the volume so that the objectives are achieved and the object is within the scope of the initial budget. Unfortunately, there are no other ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U110	No more registered issues. Thank you very much, regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler! Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U111	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We would not have asked this question, but the question of what result we will have in 2013, before 2014, is a very important issue for us. See, for example, the Ministry of Education can tell us exactly how many gymnastics there are in every Estonian municipality in 2026, practically in every place in Estonia. And it turns out that the increase in the number of gymnastics is only seen in Tallinn and Tartu, all the other places are starting to lose them. Some are completely drastic, for example, in Hiiumaa, the Ministry of Education predicts a 51% loss, leaving less than half. What does that mean in real life? This means that upper secondary schools are really closing down. This process is becoming massive and we know that over 140 upper secondary schools will be shut down by the Ministry of Education in the coming years, either in the next year or in the next three years, either way. What happens next? It is clear that if so many upper secondary schools are closed, there will not be as many basic schools as there are now. If the settlement doesn't have a high school or a middle school, it'll run out of people at some point. Is this place gonna need a club? Do you need a support center in this place with what kind of money to support it? At the same time, this is a European-funded programme that would allow us to feel a little better in these difficult years of 2014‐2020. Even our under-right minister, Mr. Prime Minister, who always has everything well, the last comment was that it was going to be a difficult time. Well, while he's talking about difficult times, we need to prepare for them especially intensively. So what kind of system is being developed by the Office of the Minister for Regional Affairs, I would even say that the Ministry of the Interior, depends on the efficiency with which we use the European Union's money. This is, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, a very important question, and that is why we have asked for a discussion. I would like to report that we are going to keep this matter under control both in the Group and in the Special Committee. We would like to know which assessment system will come in 2013 and when it will come in concrete terms. This is our future and the maximum use of billions of kroons. I think, Minister, that we will certainly continue on this issue in about a year's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U112	Thank you. Any more negotiating requests? No, it's not. Is there something the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. I will close the negotiations, and the third question is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U113	Let's go to the fourth question. This is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Aivar Riisalu, Kadri Simson, Kalle Laaneti, Lauri Laas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Rainer Vakra, Tarmo Tamme and Vladimir Velman concerning the closure of Leisi's rescue command on 19 January 2012. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Kadri Simson will speak on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U114	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of the Interior! The inquiry was handed over to the Riigikogu on 19 January. The reason for the inquiry was that on 17 January a demonstration took place in Saaremaa against the closure of a rescue command in Leisi municipality, involving 180 people, a tenth of the local population. This high percentage of participation clearly shows that local people are minded against the state's activities. For people, the problem is, above all, the loss of a sense of security, as no viable solutions have been proposed. They say that the closed rescue squads are going to be volunteered, but the closing decisions were born before the replacement commandos started working. The Rescue Board stresses that the closure plan, on the basis of which at least nine rescue commandos will be closed in Estonia, is based on the analysis prepared by the Rescue Board. Based on what is published in the media, there are many errors in this analysis and this does not therefore create trust. The heirs have asked the Minister of the Interior seven questions that I am not going to read about in terms of saving time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U115	Thank you. I ask Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Chair, to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! Thank you for your questioning. I will answer these seven questions in turn. I start with the first question: "Has the Ministry reviewed and approved the analysis of the closure of the rescue teams? " Yes, the Ministry of the Interior has reviewed the analysis of the rescue teams. I would also like to give a little more time to answer this question for some of the reasons that Leisi's rescue team is closing down. It is true that at present the safety of people in the area of lifesaving in Estonia is often apparent and the sense of security is erroneous. Over the last 20 years, significant migration has taken place to new centres of attraction. Significant sources of danger have also been relocated. We cannot deny demographic change either. At the same time, several commandos are still located where they have been created over time. A situation has developed where expert advice indicates that the operational load of rescue units undergoing restructuring and the level of risk in the areas remain below average compared to the rest of the national rescue units. For example, the average number of calls per month in Leisi's rescue command in 2008-2010 was 7.3, but the average figure in Estonia during this period was 35.4%. Similarly, Leisi's rescue command did not provide life-saving capabilities throughout the year, and in 2011 it was not guaranteed within 30 days. The aim of the restructuring of the commandos is to provide a better rescue service to the majority of Estonian residents than has been the case so far. Across Estonia, 121000 inhabitants will receive a life-saving service within 1 to 15 minutes after the reorganisations. The number of life-saving commandos is increasing from 41 to 66. As far as Saaremaa is concerned, the formation of the Orissaare and Kihelkonna commandos will be increased to ensure life-saving capacity in them at all times, so-called 24/7. After the reorganization, Kihelkonna commando is 17 men, Orissaare commando has 22 men and Kuressaare 27 men. We compare the entire rescue capacity of Saaremaa with the rescue capacity of mainland Estonia. A region comparable to Saaremaa is, for example, the exit area of Keila's rescue command, which is approximately the size of Saaremaa. In addition to Keila, Saue, Laulasmaa, Keila-Joa, Vasalemma, Rummu and other settlements remain in this area. If there are 24 men in the rescue team that covers this area, 4 to 5 men are on duty at once, then there are 66 men in Kuressaare, Kihelkonna and Orissaare commando in Saaremaa following the reorganisation. In Saaremaa, the rescue capacity is more than twice as high as the number of inhabitants and in an area of approximately the same size in mainland Estonia. The restructuring plan is based on analyses carried out over a rather long period of time and in depth. It is important to note that these analyses are much wider; they do not only concern the exit areas of specific rescue teams. The decision of the Director-General of the Rescue Board to restructure rescue teams, in which 66 rescue units instead of 41 reach life-saving capabilities, was prepared not on an individual basis but on the basis of a comparative analysis of the exit areas of the rescue teams. The main benchmarks were the number of inhabitants, the level of risks and the number of rescue events in the region. The second question: "How do you explain the misinformation about Leisi in the analysis of the closure of rescue teams? " There is no specific question formulated here, there is no specific reference to the alleged false information. Therefore, in my reply, I will give a small overview of what has been done in order to get to know the local circumstances, in addition to the peer reviews, by asking people for opinions and feedback. When the Rescue Board began to analyse the situation in order to find the best rescue service model, close cooperation with the regional rescue centres was naturally carried out. Last December, the Rescue Board sent a letter and an analysis document of the commanders to all municipalities remaining in the service area of the commanders undergoing restructuring. In January of this year, the management of the Rescue Board met with representatives of all commandos and municipalities in the area of the commandos undergoing restructuring. On January 17, a visit was made to Leisi parish and a rescue commando. There were meetings with both the parish leaders and the parishioners. The third question: Is it possible that there are errors in the analysis that could lead to an unjustified closure decision of the rescue team? How do you avoid such mistakes? " I dare say that the result of a really thorough and long - term comprehensive analysis by the Rescue Board should rule out the possibility of a false closure decision. From the surface of feedback and information gathering, it can be said that there are no errors that would alter the balance between the comparative estimates given to the exit areas of the rescue crews. The analysis was carried out in two stages. In the first phase, a comparative analysis of the commandos was carried out, where, on the basis of specific criteria, the commandos were placed in the ranking list. There were a number of criteria, such as the number of inhabitants, risks, trips to date, etc. As a second step, the so-called 'commando portfolio' was drawn up, moving to a more detailed level to ensure that the Rescue Board did not make any difficult mistakes to correct. I will answer the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh questions together. These questions are as follows: "Is there a realistic action plan for the survival of areas without rescue command? What does the state do to ensure that people feel secure when they close commandos? How is Leisis planning to organise a switch to volunteer rescuers when the command is closed? What has been done? What measures do you intend to take to address the problems raised in this situation? " Concrete actions are based on two pillars: contributing to the community's involvement in enhancing security and contributing to people's awareness. The concrete steps this year are as follows: Firstly, in 2012, we will provide EUR 50000 in support of voluntary rescue operations in remote regions, including Leisi. The aid shall amount to approximately EUR 5000 per region. Until the end of 2012, for each command to be restructured, a "coordinator" will remain in place with the task of launching the voluntary rescue team's work. In doing so, the state sends a clear signal that we will do our utmost to create a voluntary rescue team in this area. Secondly, a volunteer rescue coordinator was appointed to the Rescue Board and to each rescue centre at the beginning of this year, who devotes a hundred percent of his working time to this topic, whose aim is to encourage and support voluntary rescue activities and who also provides volunteers with comprehensive assistance in achieving their goals. Thirdly, the total amount of voluntary rescue funding will increase by more than 50% in 2012, from EUR 300000 to EUR 455000. Also, in 2012, 70000 euros will support the activities of the Estonian Private Salvation Union, which represents an increase of 100% compared to 2011. Fourthly, the Rescue Board provides volunteers with the techniques and equipment it uses but operates and provides free training and training. Fifthly, a package of activities will be drawn up under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior to further popularise voluntary rescue activities and create better conditions for state-saviour partnerships. This year, the Ministry of the Interior, together with the Rescue Board and the free-willed Rescue Union, will also prepare voluntary development directions for the rescue area for the years 2013 to 2020. When it comes to the sense of security, as well as the activities of rescuers, prevention is very important. It is not possible to talk too much about this issue; it will probably have to be done more and more. The main argument is that no rescue action can be more successful than prevention. Using prevention work, we're preventing accidents in the bud. The general objective of prevention in the rescue area is to design a living environment in Estonia where everyone, every person, every member of society creates and values safety and security. This will help to reduce the number of accidents, deaths and injuries, as well as the amount of damage caused by accidents. This is a consistent approach that will certainly deliver the best results in the long term. That's what we're seeing right now. In a country the size of Estonia, every small contribution is important, whether it is cooperation between institutions in the public or private sectors, or sending a simple message from person to person. We have already made significant progress with prevention in Estonia. Compared to 2007, the number of people killed in 2011 fell from 164 to 73, or more than twice. The number of fires fell from 14900 to 6439. The aim is to further reduce the number of fires and fires. In 2012, we have significantly increased the volume of prevention. The money will be allocated 63% more this year than in the previous year. This represents an increase from EUR 410000 to EUR 650000. This year, the aim of prevention is, of course, to pay particular attention to raising awareness among the population of areas undergoing restructuring, by organising more home visits, disseminating information material and organising information days on prevention. While 400 home visits were organised in 2011, there are planned to be twice as many, or 800, visits in 2012. Also this year there will be a very wide-ranging nationwide fire safety information campaign in the media, as well as, of course, a water safety media campaign in the summer. The experience of recent years has clearly shown that precisely the contribution to prevention is the right way to reduce damage and prevent accidents from starting out. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U117	Thank you very much. Question from Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U118	Thank you. Dear Minister, Interesting to hear that the loss of rescue troops is accompanied by a reduction in the number of fires and casualties. You have one reason for losing most of the life-saving capabilities on the ground. If this is not the case now, how will it be increased if we build the rescue work on a voluntary basis? We know volunteers go somewhere else to work. You don't have a team like that anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U119	Thank you for your question. Volunteering is not a general system being built in Estonia, but volunteering can only be a parallel and helpful structure in order to complement the activities of professional rescuers. Volunteers are known to be able to help with primary fire-fighting, certainly also in prevention. Today, lifesaving capacity is really lacking across Estonia. Several places aren't covered in life-saving capabilities. That means we're actually giving the wrong signal to the people in these commando work areas. People think that if the rescue squad goes in, it's possible to bring out potential victims, victims, but take your finger, a team of two can't do anything to save lives. He can't use the attacking tactics in the fire fighting, and he can only, figuratively speaking, do the same thing that a volunteer savior could do through second degree training. The goal is to increase the number of volunteers in Estonia. For example, we are very much behind our good example of Finland. In Estonia, there are eight times less volunteers than in Finland and more than 12 times less volunteers than in Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U120	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U121	Thank you. Good minister! I wanted to ask you about the second round of concerns about jobs and everything, but I'm asking you for your answer. Now, if you were to try to put yourself in Leisi's human boots, do you really honestly believe that because of the reorganisation of the rescue area, the person living in Leisi or Leisi should actually increase his sense of security?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U122	Thank you for your question. I think it's very important in Leisi to have a strong voluntary rescue team on the ground. I think this is extremely important to the population. It is just as important that a rescue squad who drives to put out a fire that involves victims is capable of providing a full service. Now, unfortunately, Leisis is not able to provide a full service all year round, but it is important for people to be able to do so by a rescue squad who drives in. Fire-fighting capabilities on the ground are of paramount importance in relation to the emergence of a voluntary rescue team. As far as I know, I referred to January 17, when people met the inhabitants of the municipality, it was, of course, emotionally difficult for people to accept this message. But at the same time, there was a clear will and a desire for a voluntary rescue team. As far as I am concerned, the Rescue Board's management was also very clearly informed of this request and asked practical questions about how it would be possible to create a rescue command, what state aid would be, how much training would be given, what technical resources would be provided to this command, etc. I think these are very important questions for these people. As I said, there are three strong rescue commanders left in Saaremaa, which is a completely different treatment from other places in Estonia anyway. This is based on the principle of insularity.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U123	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U124	Thank you. Good waitress! You talk a lot about volunteer rescue teams. But how is it possible for the state to shut down the doors of professional commandos, but the voluntary rescue commandos are uncreated? Would it not be wise to give a time, such as a year, to make sure that in a year's time, the doors of the command would be closed and that there would be a voluntary commando with the state in that place? Isn't it a rush when you have to take command with two months' notice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U125	Thank you very much. There's no mention of two months' notice. Information about this analysis and what was happening with the rescue teams was already published in the second half of last year. Yes, the question may seem logical. Why, then, have voluntary commandos not been created before the closure of the national commandos? The Rescue Board's practice so far has shown that, unfortunately, in an area where there is a national commando, even if it is in such a way that, to say the least, in a state of inability, it is not often rushed to create a voluntary commando. On the contrary, it tends to mistakenly believe that the creation of a voluntary command would increase the likelihood of the disappearance of a national commando. This is a general emotional attitude. In fact, they want to know what will happen, whether anything will change or not. I think that, precisely when clarity comes, rather rapid steps will be taken to create a 'initiative group' on the ground. As I said, the State, the Rescue Board and the Ministry of the Interior are doing all they can to support a voluntary initiative in as many places as possible in Estonia, and I am not only talking about these nine areas, but also about many other places, and we are doing it more and more intensively.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U126	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U127	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! At the meeting with the Director-General of the Rescue Board, I learned that people's safety is increasing. You confirmed that, too. The creation of life-saving commandos is, in my opinion, essential. One example of this is that two years ago, Kanep's mayor's house burned down 200 metres from the fire brigade. I think that we are on the right track, but yet the reformers have come under strong criticism. I'm a frequent guest of the Võru Rescue Command. There the simple workers asked me if it would have been wiser to act in such a way that the commandos that are now being laid off would first have been brought aside by voluntary men, so that they could later hand over the commando to the volunteers. Has this matter been discussed or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U128	Thank you very much for the question. That's the idea of giving the Rescue Board extra money. Until the end of the year, there will be coordinators in those places whose aim is to create this volunteering. Until the end of 2012, a certain amount of money will be allocated to each of the regions undergoing restructuring, which will enable the coordinator to take practical steps to concentrate this voluntary so-called 'group', to explain to the people the importance of it, as well as the opportunities offered by the state, and to coordinate activities in general, so that we can set up a voluntary group of initiatives on the ground during this year and not only a group of initiatives, but already a rescue team. This is the transition option that has been proposed, and this is what I introduced when I answered the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U129	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U130	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! You said this reform was meant to increase people's sense of security. I come back to the example of Saaremaa. If Leisi loses the rescue squad and volunteers who may never come in the future do not yet, then I assume that the Leisi area will be covered by the Orissaare commando in the meantime. So, is all this saved money going to strengthen Orissaare's command? How soon does the Orissaare commando have to reach the Leisi area for a challenge? How long has the response time been given to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U131	Thank you very much. As I said in my reply, after the restructuring, the composition of Orissaare and Kihelkonna's command will be increased, providing them with continuous life-saving capabilities throughout the year. There will be 17 men in the parish, 22 men in Orissaare, which means four men are on duty at once. There are 27 men in Kuressaare, five of them on duty at the same time. We can't take Leisi as one territorial unit, it's a distributed area. The overall response time of the Orissaare Rescue Command will be 25 minutes. That is why I stressed that it is absolutely necessary to create a strong voluntary rescue team in Leisi with fire-fighting capabilities on the ground. We can't talk about a serious full service anyway, we can't talk about it right now. In Question Time, we already dealt with the tragic incident that took place in January. There's nothing to do. Ülo referred to a case in Cannabis. There have been other cases. For example, the fire that ended in Leisi was relatively close to the location of Leisi's rescue command. This is by no means a reproach, but simply a statement of fact. Unfortunately, the position and response time of the command will not prevent tragic events. There is a need to provide assurance that this commando who will be present will be able to offer all the services that a European modern rescue team must offer. That is precisely what these reorganisations are all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U132	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Now this plan is on the desk of the Ministry and we know which rescue crews are going to shut down. It is hoped that voluntary commandos will emerge. Are you convinced today that there will really be voluntary commandos everywhere? Have these negotiations taken place? The previous replies of the Minister for Regional Affairs, as well as the answers of the Minister for Education and Research, were concerned when he answered the question. It seemed that there would soon be a question of the possibility of life on the outskirts. Post offices and all that. People living in an area where schools are closed in a row and in a row, and there are reorganisations in the medical network, are very concerned. If this is the case, it is probably necessary to decide in the Estonian country where you can live in such a way that the services are guaranteed. But the question is: Are there any agreements or hope that these voluntary rescue officers will be there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U134	Thank you very much for the question. Yes, a number of activities have also been initiated, in my reply I also tried to explain this, aimed at voluntary activity on the ground, and, of course, all other activities, in particular prevention, are also taking place intensively in the areas affected by the restructuring. It is certainly important to inform the local population, to raise their awareness of everything that people can do themselves. There is hope that voluntary rescue commandos will emerge. There are already action groups in a number of areas of rescue operations undergoing restructuring. I am hopeful, and I think there will be those people by the end of this year. Once again, I will explain that 100% of volunteer work is first focused on general coordinators at the Rescue Board and at all four rescue centers. In addition, additional coordinators working only on a specific area will be working in the nine regions undergoing restructuring until the end of this year, in this case, with Leisi. This activity is multi-level, and quite a number of people are committed to making a voluntary commando there. Similarly, all practical issues will be resolved: technical facilities, real estate, equipment, training, training.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U135	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U136	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. From your answers, I understand that the number of rescue commandos is decreasing, but their work will be more effective and management more efficient. It's all very nice, but it means that leadership should go through the same process. Does the reduction in the number of rescue commandos involve a reduction in the number of bureaucrats in your ministry who are in charge of command?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U137	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! The number of officials in my ministry is so small that you don't even want to know that figure. As regards the changes in the structure of the Rescue Board, as you know, these changes entered into force from 1 January. This is what we did last year, and the Committee on Legal Affairs was conducting changes to the governance structure of both the PBGB and the Rescue Board. This concerned the status of the rescue centres and the significant reduction in the number of middle-level managers in the Rescue Board. The aim of all of this is certainly to make the chain of governance and responsibility more precise, clearer. In my opinion, it is always very important in the public sector that resources, or money, be used well thoughtfully and analytically, and that they also look further ahead than one year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U138	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. We understand that voluntary rescue officers will have more say in Estonia. Will all of these arise on their own initiative, however, if there is a wish on the ground, or will your ministry also have a vision of the future, how many voluntary rescue commanders could there be in Estonia in, for example, a few years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U140	Thank you for a good question. That is a multifaceted question. First of all, it has to be said that it is difficult to create a volunteer from the top, or you cannot do it by order. But we can do our utmost to encourage people to come with us on the ground. Prediction means that the state, firstly, gives an unambiguous signal that volunteering is an important asset. Secondly, we contribute to voluntary development in the form of money, training, training and inventory. Thirdly, mention must be made of the voluntary coordination scheme that I described in reply to Mrs Hunter's question. It is the task of the coordinators working in the Rescue Centres to make it clear, on an analytical basis, which places a voluntary rescue team might be particularly welcome. Let me give you an example. One place in Estonia that, according to me and the Rescue Board's management, really needs a volunteer rescue command is Kuusalu. A significant number of people have settled in the region over the last decade. There is a high risk of rescue events. Based on an analytical conclusion, we'd like the Six Bases to form a rescue team. The Rescue Coordinator will do everything to negotiate with the local population, explain the advantages it brings, the support and funding of the state. It's a two-way street, isn't it? If the local residents meet us, we also want to meet them and bring the matter to the point that concrete steps will also be taken, a voluntary rescue team will be established on the ground and a contract will be concluded with the Rescue Board. After that, we can say that this is an official voluntary rescue team that the Rescue Board can take into account in its activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U141	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have noticed that there is a need for austerity and resource conservation worldwide. In the big countries, things are the same, in the small ones. In Estonia, it sometimes stands out that we copy the structures of large countries, as if we had just as much in our hands and we were just as rich, even though there are only so many brave men left in some parts of the country that there are still men left for the windmill, but there are still problems with the ability to save. In Estonia's circumstances, would it not be appropriate to bring these capable men together and try co- or co-operation in the area of rescue, for example, with the Defence League or other existing and functioning structures? Or do official barriers interfere?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U143	Thank you for your question. That's a very relevant question. I can comment that, according to the legislative changes that Parliament adopted a few years ago, as far as I know, it is already possible to involve the Defence League in the emergency response. There's already a chance. Of course, we can take the example of developed countries. At the same time, Estonia has its own distinctive features. For example, the size of our territory. Estonia is still a country with significant territory compared to the number of inhabitants, given that one very strong country in Europe, the Netherlands, has just as large a territory as Estonia, but there are 13 times as many inhabitants. This means that there are very few residents in Estonia. Our territory is not too small, but there are many scattered areas here. As a result, as compared to Finland, which is always a good example for us, there are twice as many rescuers per thousand inhabitants in Estonia. I think it's a specialty too. I dare say from this remote point of view what I have already said in recent weeks: with the restructuring of the rescue teams, which we are discussing here today, and which hopefully will be brought to the end in May, we would like to put a stop to the restructuring process. If there are 72 professional rescue officers, I think we've reached an optimal solution. Voluntary rescue commandos are now close to 90, and their number could be well above 100 in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U144	No more registered issues. Mr. Minister, thank you very much. Any requests for negotiation? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U145	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Many things can be grouped together, but where the life and health of the people around depend on specific people, at least this must be done with great care. However, rescue commandos are being abolished instead of being strengthened, although losing is perhaps the last thing that should be done. You will not want to think about what can be done to improve this situation. I remembered a story that took place in the IX Riigikogu. There was a huge problem in Estonia since 1998: there was a stolen metal of color. Stolen everything that could be stolen: road signs, elevator electric motors. They took metal for a few hundred crowns, and then thousands of crowns had to be wasted to fix it. The exit was to ban the reception of non-ferrous metal at most of the metal reception points (there were dozens and dozens of them across Estonia) and to leave two or three regional centres with a license and to fix the names and passport details of the people who brought the metal to purchase. Three or four centres are much easier to control than 40 or 50 reception points. I put in a bill with my colleagues, but that didn't work with the first bang, of course. It was thrown back because no one in the coalition at the time saw any problem here in 1999. We took action and did the same draft once again, which was again rejected at first reading. With my colleagues, one of them is sitting here, this is Mr. Velman, someone else was with us, and I did it for the third time. Then I went on a business trip, and when I came back, it turned out that the law passed the first reading and there were all the odds that it would be accepted. That's what was accepted. The system changed and metal reception points were licensed. At that time, the party of the Reform Party was a weight stone. They may have changed their minds. We were going to ask the costaars what happened then. Then an interesting story was told. Vladimir will remember it. Two kilometers of cable was stolen from a well - known and quite rich reformer forest house that had been dug into the ground. It's a private opera to buy this cable and pull it through the woods again. When they started discussing this bill for the third time, the man punched the table with his fist and said, "That's enough, we're taking the law, we're gonna get rid of these metal thefts." So, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can be sure: there is always a way in life that, when something good happens, it will certainly be balanced by some bad phenomenon. For some reason, I'm sure that until some well-known and authoritative IRL member's house, God forbid, a fire accident happens, we have no hope of protecting these rescue commanders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U146	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U147	Good manager! Mr. Minister! I can safely say that the hurried closure of the rescue commandos is an premature step. First of all, I would like to ask who even gave the authority to do so. It's only been ten months since the election. As far as I know, during the election, they didn't say that rescue commandos would be shut down quickly. Isn't this a stealth decision-making thing, not the people's opinion? Surely, then, people in nine regions will lose their sense of security, and these people will probably leave there in an accelerated fashion. To claim that closing the commandos will increase people's security is completely wrong. I ask: how can the state close the doors of the commandos if there are no voluntary rescue commandos in place? These municipalities should have been informed at least one year in advance that in a year's time there would no longer be a state rescue command. The year should have been given time to train volunteers, and the state should have given it financial support. It is also incomprehensible to me why a mixed option could not have been considered, that some rescue workers would have been on the payroll of the state and that volunteers would simply have come up. Nor do I understand how it is possible to save people faster when the departure time doubles. Here the example of Kanep was repeatedly given, where the commando could not save the house of the elder. But I say, if it wasn't for the commando in Kanep, it wouldn't have been just the house of the mayor, maybe the whole town of Kanep would have burned down, because there's a tree house next to the tree house. It is a pity that it cannot be understood that reacting quickly to a challenge will prevent major accidents. I'm gonna bring a Buffalo on the side. If the Puhja had not been a rescue officer on site, it would hardly have been possible to save the two - year - old child who fell into the well. Thanks to the rescuers who were in the Buffalo, that child was saved. I have a rhetorical question: why are the nine local authorities in which rescue operations are closed subject to an additional financial obligation? After all, the state will not in future compensate for the maintenance of voluntary rescue troops. I think this is a very premature step, and I hope that this matter will be kept under review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U148	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U149	Let's go to the last question. This is answered by Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. I ask for the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair Marika Tuus-Lauli!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U150	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, A closed rescue team is also the Palamuse commando. An excuse has been given for the small number of inhabitants in the region, the lack of life-saving capacity, as in the case of other commandos, and economic savings. The local people have not been negotiated or asked for their opinion. The local people and the Palamuse Municipality are certainly not satisfied with the analysis justifying the need to close the Palamuse Command. One reason for closing is that there are few people there. There should be 5,000 people, but there's less. However, they do not include students from the Luua Forestry School. They live in a boarding house, but they're not registered. Secondly, the analysis shows that future arrival times are unrealistic. These times really only apply under ideal conditions, but this is certainly not possible in winter. Let us remind you that the Palamuse Professional Rescue Command was established in the early years of the Republic. The municipality provided the state with a free building. The equipment was brought from Finland, at first one fire truck, after many more, people were also trained in Finland and Sweden. In essence, the country's share has not been so great, but it is now disappearing too. It is very unlikely that there will be a voluntary association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U151	Thank you. I ask Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your questioning. The first question: "How do you explain the misinformation about the Palamuse in the analysis of the closure of rescue teams? Why were the students of the Luua Forestry School not counted among the residents of the region? " This analysis was carried out in two stages. In the first phase, a comparative analysis of the commandos was carried out, where the commandos were placed in a ranking according to specific criteria. As a second step, a "portfolio" of the rescue command was made in detail in order to move to a more detailed level and to make sure that the Rescue Board does not make difficult corrections. As regards the failure to take into account the students of the Luua Forestry School, non-timing factors in the register data were not taken into account in order to ensure comparability of data. Given how many rural residents actually study and work in larger settlements, although there is a registered rural area, the use of such a method would have been detrimental to rural areas. Another important nuance here is that quite a number of students from local schools, including the Luua Forestry School, are local residents who would actually have been counted twice. As far as the palamus is concerned, the Palamuse Rescue Command is 11 members, but the staff of 11 guards is unable to provide a consistent national rescue service. Last year, two members of the Palamuse Rescue Command were on duty for 252 days. You don't guarantee life-saving abilities like that. It would take at least 17 men to ensure life-saving capabilities, but it would be better if 22 men were to be guarded by four. Four guards were not on the Palamuse Command in 2011 on any day. The workload and level of risks of the rescue command are significantly below the Estonian average. While the average number of calls per month in 2008-2010 was 18.6, the average figure in Estonia was 35.4. These are the facts that were taken into account in the analysis. The second question: "Why are the future times for rescuers to arrive at the crash site in the analysis not true and not actually achievable by heavy rescue vehicles? " In reply, I can say that the analysis is based on software modulation commissioned by AS Regio. We do not have any factual basis for questioning the data obtained there. The honourable inquisitor referred to the fact that there has been no talk with the local population. Actually, it's been done. Kuno Tammearu, Deputy Director General of the Rescue Board, has met local residents. Kuno Tammearu, by the way, is from the same municipality. At that meeting, no one asked about the miscalculation of transit times. Probably primarily because Kuno himself is from this area and there is no point in making such a claim to him, because he, I think, knows best about the local circumstances and their conformity, let us say, to the method by which the Rescue Board's analysis was based. If the good heirs allow, then the third, fifth and seventh questions I shall sum up, read them at once and answer them at once. These questions are: "How does Palamuse plan to make a transition to volunteer rescuers when the command is shut down? What has been done? By closing the rescue units, the time of arrival at the crash site may even stretch for more than half an hour in some areas. How does the state plan to ensure the security of people living in these areas? How do you expect the areas without a rescue command to cope in the future if they do not have a voluntary rescue unit? " Several points were also discussed when we discussed the previous question, but I do think it is necessary to repeat them. In 2012, we will take the next steps, in particular by contributing to the involvement of the community in enhancing security and raising people's awareness. Firstly, in 2012, we will allocate EUR 50000 to support voluntary rescue operations in remote areas. Around EUR 5 000 will be allocated to each region and a coordinator will remain in place until the end of the year, with the task of employing a voluntary rescue team. Secondly, at the beginning of this year, a volunteer rescue coordinator will work in each rescue centre and Rescue Board to encourage and support a voluntary rescue area. Thirdly, voluntary rescue funding has increased by more than 50% in 2012. We also support the Estonian Priitent Salvation League with 100% more than in 2011, or 70000 euros. Fourthly, we also provide used but working technology and equipment for volunteers, and, of course, we also organise free training and training. Fifthly, a package of activities will be drawn up under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, with the help of bringing volunteering even more among people and popularising it, creating better conditions for partnership between the state and the rescuers. We will also draw up a voluntary development plan for the years 2013 to 2020. Prevention is very important. This has already brought success in Estonia. I also talked about those figures, which are still significant, in response to the previous inquiry. Preventive work has resulted in more than a double reduction in the number of deaths and fires, compared to 2007. This year we will increase the volume of prevention by 63%, from EUR 410000 to EUR 650000. We will also pay attention this year to raising awareness and informing the population in the areas of restructuring, by organising many more home visits and information days on prevention, and by disseminating more information materials. We can make more than 800 home visits this year. Information campaigns and awareness-raising campaigns are also taking place. You're asking why it hasn't been considered necessary to speak to local people when it is known that the Palamuse Rescue Command will be closed in May this year. In December 2011, analyses were sent to all the municipalities where the restructuring takes place and feedback was also heard. The management of the Rescue Board met with the people of Palamuse Parish and the members of the Rescue Command in S. a January 18th. This meeting explained the reasons and timetable for the restructuring of the commandos and answered the questions of the representatives of the municipality. The Rescue Board's management also presented the steps taken by the Rescue Board to support voluntary initiative in the region, what has been achieved so far in terms of prevention, as well as new steps in this area. In addition, the question you are asking, good heirs, is that if until now, in many ways, local authorities have helped volunteers to find suitable buildings, how far does the replacement of national rescue teams with voluntary units impose additional obligations on local authorities? The Rescue Board will make every effort to ensure that the building currently in use by the National Rescue Command will remain in the use of voluntary rescuers in the future. Many of the command buildings are already owned by the local government and all the levers are in the hands of the local authorities themselves. The Palamuse Rescue Command building also belongs to Palamuse Parish. After signing a contract with volunteers who start work on Palamuse, the Rescue Board will also start to allocate funds for the maintenance of the command building. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U153	You have a few questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U154	Thank you. How do these volunteers develop? You say you give encouragement and go among the people to talk about how important this is. I'm telling you, there are no men. You just mentioned there were two men. But these two men go to work, one to Tabivere and the other to Blackwater, and then there won't be any more. Where can these people come from? Savings have also been mentioned as one of the reasons. How much do you save from this reform all over Estonia? What are the numbers behind this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U155	Thank you very much. You know, I don't really believe that there are no people. There's a lot of things they say they can't have it, can't have it, can't have it, can't have a third. We are still considerably behind, as I said, in terms of volunteering, voluntary contributions from quite a number of other European countries. We're not down by 10%, 20%, 50% or 70%. We talked about Finland's example. That difference is still multiple. It is also possible to find people for volunteering when it comes to good will and very strong systemic work. We have achieved one level of volunteering; it is a thousand people all over Estonia. I'd rather call it the first stage. These are people who are already active themselves, who want to participate, who want to come along with volunteering, or who understand the importance of volunteering, who want to contribute. I think there are still a considerable number of people who may have thought about these thoughts, but have not yet made a decision. They have not taken a decision either because they may not have received a clear signal from the State or the municipality that volunteering is essential for its assessment. Of course, it is morally appreciated, but it is also valued financially. In this sense, financially, that is to put under the shoulders of technical equipment, training, training, everything else. For example, by adopting the rescue law, we in Parliament not very long ago gave the first signal that there is now a modern regulation of volunteering in the rescue law, and from here we can proceed nicely. It wasn't that long ago. I think that these resources are far from being exhausted in Estonia. They can be used. These are very important resources in addition to what is provided, for example, by professional rescuers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U156	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U157	Thank you. Dear Minister, Some things I understand, some things I don't, but I'd like to understand more. The question concerns method and analysis. You mentioned the ranking once. Did I get it right that you have presented the initial task in the sense that up to ten commandos must be shut down in the Estonian state? Would it have been possible, on the basis of this method, to go through all commandos, to arrive at the result that all commandos were necessary, or was it still the method and the whole process designed to shut down some commandos?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U158	Thank you! There was no such starting point, but the aim was to draw up a first comprehensive, proper, analytical and argument-based approach to the fact that, with regard to risks and the demographic situation and changes in infrastructure objects over the last 20 years, the ability of our country to respond to major rescue events should logically also change. The purpose of this action was to improve our ability to save and, of course, to use the resources at our disposal now, optimally and thoughtfully. This was the core of this analysis. This analysis was launched last summer and was completed at the beginning of this year, after quite a long process of engagement, meetings with people, explanations and answers to questions in the public for quite a few months. I think it has not been a hasty process, but rather it happened so that people were aware of what was going on. This does not mean that the information is now coming to an end. On the contrary. By the way, the Rescue Board organises a separate notification to all the people living in those places where rescue troops are being reorganized to provide them with additional assurance and information on prevention and volunteering and, of course, about the restructuring itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U159	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U160	Thank you. Good minister! Yeah, that's good to talk about, but sometimes life goes a different way. I think the closure of these nine commandos was the last drop in a lot of people's cup. When it comes to the alienation of power to the people, this is certainly an example. You have repeatedly answered the Members' questions in this Chamber about the causes and possible consequences of these closures. You're talking about briefing, volunteering, etc., but there hasn't been much ripping off these potential volunteer commandos. Can you say something comforting from this remote control to those people in Estonia who, with this last reform, have lost a piece of the land of their security and who may not receive the service that the Constitution really allows them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U161	Thank you, Jaan! You've only just come to the hall, but we've been discussing this for over an hour. The various factors highlighted in the responses concerning prevention, volunteering, reorganisation of life-saving capacity in Estonia have, in my opinion, been quite varied and sufficient to give you and other members of the Riigikogu a message, as well as to all people in Estonia, that ensuring a life-saving capacity for a much greater number of people in Estonia than is now a step forward. There are now places in Estonia where we will not be able to do anything when the fire breaks out. However, I would like to emphasise once again: the main objective is to prevent a rescue event. However, if this rescue event occurs, I think that the state will behave responsibly if it provides full service to all Estonian residents, at least as many as we can ensure, given the dispersal of Estonia. The full service means that when the commando arrives and it is a professional commando and not a volunteer (the volunteer commando can provide primary fire-fighting services and do so in the form of an "external fire-extinguishing") it is not possible for the members of this rescue command to say: "Forgive us, but we are present with two men. We can't do anything for the victims, the victims in the building. There's nothing we can do to get into this building. " It is also expected to use the so-called attacking fire-fighting tactics and try to localize the monsters, not to limit the external spraying of water if people inside are likely to die or suffer serious health damage. Unfortunately, the two-man commando doesn't allow this in any way, but at the moment, this situation is in quite a number of places. Restructuring will ensure that when a rescue team arrives and is a professional rescue team, it will be able to provide full service. That's basically how it's gonna be for 66 rescue teams. Six rescue commandos are commandos in so-called remote areas, especially in the small islands. There are separate solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U162	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U163	Thank you. You have argued here on several occasions that the state supports the creation of voluntary rescue teams. I can safely claim that there is an additional financial burden on local authorities and that this support from the state will hardly cover the quarter now. Why are you punishing these nine municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U164	I explained quite thoroughly what support will be for the voluntary rescue teams that will be reorganized. As you know, there is a procedure for granting grants to volunteer rescue teams, and this funding will also increase this year. As I mentioned, there will be separate people in these regions who will hopefully help to form voluntary rescue commandos. The voluntary rescue facility will be further increased by 50% in 2012 and will be further increased next year. We will increase it to almost half a million euros this year, to 455000 euros. In addition, we support a free-willed rescue union with operating grants that are twice as large as last year. We hand over the equipment, hand over the technology. This year, the Rescue Board will provide a considerable amount of personal protection equipment to volunteers. I think this is the biggest support for volunteering in recent years, even in Estonia. It must also have a very important moral side. This side is such that those who come along voluntarily and help to make their communities safer and on-call so that, if necessary, their neighbour's property or even life can be saved, who contribute to the elimination of fires and, of course, are involved in the work of prevention, understand that the state has clearly put its shoulder on. There is no turning back here, if we want to move forward, not gently, by a few small steps, but, I would say, several or several steps. I assure you that in 2013 there will also be an increase in the financing of a voluntary rescue area.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U165	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U166	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Municipalities have not yet recovered from large redundancies in rescue teams a few years ago when a new and worse blow came. It was quite interesting to hear that the minister called the loss of nine fire squads to clean up the rescue capacity. We hear about new fires almost every week, and when rescue workers arrive, fire has already taken over. Half an hour's waiting means the destruction of the house, as happened in Avinurmes, after the rescue squad was shut down. Such a long time meant losing a home to a family on January 6. Just a few days ago, there was a barn fire in Immukvere near Palamuse. Luckily, they found out fast. Now here's an example of the Puhja, about what could have happened if it hadn't been for the command. The minister answered in many words, but we did not actually receive any answers. Why were nearly 400 students not included in the Luua Forestry School? We have received the answer that this would have meant double counting of people. The parole officer said he misjudged the time of the visit. He didn't know how to do it. I asked how much the country would save on this reform, but there was no answer. All of these are formal, sought-after reasons. If we look at the map where the rescue service is left, we'll see that it's kind of drawn by a ruler and the real arguments aren't taken into account. The reason is that there is currently no lifesaving capacity. But where does this ability come from when the rescue work is built on a voluntary basis? Where are the young strong men who are able to voluntarily save others when most men earn bread in Finland or travel tens of miles to work in other cities? There are no more colchoshops in the country where the fire fighting machines were warm and the men were ready to drive out in one minute. Instead of the substantive answer, we heard a song from the Minister hundreds of times that the rescue crew network was not recommended to be demolished, but merely to be repaired, and that, as a result of the reform, the service would cover those areas where problems had been encountered. So to speak, close the beak and open the tail: we close the Palamus commando to open it somewhere else. The Minister did not forget to put an end to i, saying that as a result of the reorganisations, people's sense of security is getting better. A collection of signatures has been initiated on several sides against the closure of the command. Viktor Svyachev, the governor of Jõgeva, has also done so. The problem must be serious, because if a governor, or a representative of the state, on the ground has to start a public struggle against the same kind of state maladministration that he himself represents, then the arrogance of the government is probably already so great that even the functionaries of his party will not be discussed. Of course, the mayor could have done it a year earlier, maybe then he could have saved something. Surprisingly, those who have allowed the elections to fight to the last drop of blood for their county and who are currently in power parties now have their mouths shut. The parish elders have also written protest letters. Urmas Astel, an elder in the parish of Palamuse, approached us as elected delegates from that area. But it's all gone unnoticed. I was just at the Palamuse yesterday, I met the crowd, and I can tell you that people are totally upset. They asked: "Where is the minister? Send him over! " All I had left was to say to the people of Palamuse and Puhja and Võnnu, whose home area these commandos will be shut down, to come to Stenbock's house and ask the minister why they are doing this. It is not enough for many today to say that he would vote differently today than a year ago in the Riigikogu elections. Saving rescue teams can't be everyone's business. Saving Estonia is a matter for all of us. The government must finally assume responsibility for the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U167	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U168	I ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to register for a free microphone to perform, to do so after the hammer hit! Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U169	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Life in Estonia becomes a step-by-step way that sometimes you start asking yourself no matter how much it costs, which is the price of one human life. I can tell you quite precisely that one human life costs 8500 euros in Estonia. This figure is derived from the following calculations, a couple of trials that were completed some time ago. The first one relates to Miss Galojan, who, as you remember, assumed EUR 60,000. That's what the court says. We don't have any reason to doubt it. He got five months in real prison for that. That's one month in prison for 12,000 euros. The second trial ended last week. I would remind you that this was linked to a tragic accident in December 2007 when a 17-year-old so-called race leader killed three people. One older couple and one father of seven children died. The trial came to a logical conclusion, and three months of actual imprisonment were granted for three people killed. That means one month of real imprisonment for one human life. As I said a little earlier, in the second case, one month meant EUR 12,000. The amount that the court demanded last week from Mr Koitla in favour of the young man who crashed the accident must still be taken down at EUR 7 000. It was two people, and then EUR 3 500 for both of them. 3,500 must be deducted from 12,000. Thus, human life costs 8500 euros in Estonia. That's a very low price. In my opinion, this also ties in with what we have been discussing here for the last hour and a half. It's not like it's more expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-20_U170	Thank you. There's no more calls. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you strength! Closure of the sitting at 18.12.
