ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the second Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U2	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I hand over the draft Act supplementing § 222 of the Social Welfare Act. The draft has been drawn up with the aim of keeping the child allowance and income support payable under the State Family Benefits Act separate. The draft aims to put an end to a situation where one category of people is essentially deprived of child support, namely those who need it most. At present, the state supports families with children who already manage themselves. For families where the parents have lost their job or where the parents' salary is so low that they are entitled to income support, the income support is paid less than the child benefit. This is why the child benefit does not reach the children who need it most. When we look at the National Family Benefits Act, we see that it aims to ensure that families with children are partially reimbursed for the costs of caring for, raising and studying their children. If we look outside right now, we'll see that it's snowing. We know that home expenses have increased this year. This trend continues. When the weather gets colder, a lot of people don't have enough money to pay for home expenses. Low-wage earners get hit and start asking for income support. The minimum wage rose by EUR 20. Unfortunately, home expenses are growing faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, There's too much buzz in the hall. Call chair Kalle Laanet, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The day before yesterday, in Leisi municipality in Saaremaa, history was made in the sense that the first pique against the closure of the rescue command took place. Almost 10% of the residents of Leisi municipality, or 180 people, participated in the piquet. Due to the closure of this commando and of all other commandos, we have seven questions for the Minister of the Interior. Firstly, we want to know whether the Ministry has reviewed and approved the analysis of the closure of the rescue teams. We are interested in how the Minister explains the misinformation about Leisi in the analysis of the closure of the rescue teams. Is it possible that there are errors in the analysis that could lead to an unfounded decision to close the rescue team? How does the Minister intend to avoid such mistakes? Is there a realistic action plan on how areas without rescue command can cope? What does the state do to ensure that people feel secure after the commandos are shut down? How does Leisis plan to organise a transition to the use of voluntary rescuers when the command is closed? What has been done? What measures are envisaged to address the problems? An inquiry has been initiated by eight members of the Central Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. This procedure is decided in accordance with the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted an inquiry. If an inquiry complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher, the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviköle and the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. Currently 84 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, there is no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U6	We are going to address the items on the agenda. The first item on today's agenda is the second reading of § 76 of the Strategic Goods Act initiated by the National Defence Committee and the draft amendment to § 9 of the Surveillance Act. Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U7	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft law under discussion is still to align the Law on Strategic Goods and the Law on Surveillance by harmonising the terminology of the two laws. The first reading of the draft was completed on 10 January 2012. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before sending it to second reading at its meetings on 12 and 16 January. At the meeting on 12 January, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of the draft be placed on the Riigikogu's second working week today, i.e. 19 January. The deadline for tabling amendments was 16 January at 10.30 a.m. No amendments were received, so we have a proposal based on the text at first reading. At its meeting on 16 January 2012, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to approve the explanatory memorandum of second reading of the draft and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U8	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Aivar Riisalu! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments. The Governing Commission's proposal is to stop reading draft 148. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U9	We are moving to the first reading of the draft law amending the law on emergency services initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask Andres Anvelt, a member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U10	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! In front of you, there is a draft bill 107, which is a draft law amending the law on rescue services, initiated by our group. Just a few words from the background. For years, the whole internal security system, and perhaps the national defence system in general, has not been able to solve the problem of dignified ageing of similar areas of activity, i.e. retirement pensions. The initiatives that have been taken so far have all gone a long way because, in time, when a special pension scheme was introduced, each agency started its own start-up package. The situation of the rescuers has so far been very different, as a result of the fact that the rescuers do not have a special pension, which is, in fact, looking at the ageing of our population and the future of internal security, let us say this, a more proactive and completely correct step. However, it is the duty of the state to ensure that those who work in systems where there is a greater risk of losing health or life have certain social guarantees that enable them to age with dignity and perhaps also to deal with the health problems that have arisen. Many authorities themselves defend very well the exceptions made to pension insurance for people in their field, and the current ministers have also done so in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. For example, only weeks ago, the Minister of Defence Mart Laar said very categorically, answering questions about the social security and pensions of the Defence Forces, that he stands as a wall for the social guarantees of the Defence Forces and that the whole pension issue must be resolved within the framework of the Civil Service Act. As we know, the various versions of the draft law on the Civil Service Act have revolved around here during different formations. There is also often no further progress because the public service represents a very large part of the Estonian electorate and, if the family members of civil servants are also taken into account, it is difficult to find a political compromise. This is certainly the case with the pension system. These benefits, which are, are difficult to take away, and it is even more difficult to make the system more solidarityable. This is where we come to the different situation of the rescuers. For example, police and military personnel are currently able to receive a special pension at the age of 55. It's a little different for the saviors. They need to collect a certain period of years, with a minimum of 10 to 15 years. A ten-year retirement period means that you can get a higher old-age pension, and if a person has worked for at least 15 years, he or she will be able to remain in retirement, or essentially retire three years earlier, at the age of 60, according to the current State Pension Insurance Act. This led to the need to make the possibility for rescuers to retire more in solidarity with the opportunities offered by workers in other areas of internal security. We have also discussed this legislative amendment with the rescuers themselves, as well as with the Rescue Board. The common understanding has been very clear: in the area of salvation, it is not appropriate to keep a certain person working a particular job until he is 60 years old. We take people directly involved in the rescue: smoke divers, chemical agents, whom we also call chemical divers in the bill, and deminers. These people should be able to remain in retirement early if certain conditions are met. I stress that there should be an opportunity for early retirement. I'll explain a little bit about the system we're proposing. A savior who has a career of at least 15 years and has worked for 10 years in an area of increased health risk (as I said, including smoking, chemical diving and demining) would have the possibility to stay on retirement pension ten years earlier. This is definitely not an obligation. The current statistics also show that not even all 60-year-old rescue officers have chosen this option, but they will continue to work until the general retirement age is reached. There's another side to it. You are certainly asking me why we are taking such a step in an already ageing society that we are reducing the retirement age. I'll explain it to you very simply and mathematically. Imagine those who work in the field of salvation, over a thousand. In order for them to receive an extended old-age pension provided and earned, they must be rescue workers by law at the time of retirement. A person working for rescue who is 55 years old and who does not undergo a medical examination (this is a process established by the Minister of the Interior, only people who have been recognised as a smoke diver, a chemical diver and a deminer during the annual health check as a category 1 or 2 person can continue to work in the Rescue Board, for example, as an office worker and are expected to retire. This will keep jobs in the Rescue Board; young people will not be able to pick up. This person receives an average Salvation Board salary of 730 euros, which is almost twice as high as the average pension income of the rescue officer, which is 400 euros. These are fully-fledged men who should not be kept in the Rescue Board's office because we do not want the office staff to be as large as the number of people working in the field. If these people were allowed to remain in retirement at 55 years of age, they would have the opportunity to go to work in the national economy and make money indirectly with their tax revenues, even for the same area of salvation. For example, in the last five years (just for your information) 73 people have had to leave the Rescue Board because of health problems. This is, in fact, a very large number, which shows that these people actually face an increased health risk every day. As a former police officer, I dare say that the health risk of rescue officers is far greater than that of policemen and even defence forces, who again face a much greater risk of losing their lives. The second paragraph of the draft law concerns rescue officers who have been declared permanently incapacitated as a result of an injury or illness in the performance of their duties. We would also like these people to be able to stay on the old-age pension under the same conditions. If a person now leaves the rescue service because of his or her poor health at work, he or she will receive some compensation. If he has worked as a rescue worker for 15 years, we believe that he should have the right to remain in retirement age from a certain age, as should those people who, at the time of age of retirement, are employed in the rescue service, because that person has not left the rescue service for reasons beyond his control. The third paragraph of the draft law would invalidate § 33 of the Rescue Services Act, which states that the current possibility of retirement is still valid after 2023. First of all, I do not understand why such a time limit has been set at all. Secondly, by 2023, I think that both the Civil Service Act and the related laws on different pensions have been adopted. In assessing the effects of the law, we also looked at the cost forecast. If this law were to apply, for example, in 2012, the cost would be EUR 115200 per year. That's pretty much it. One third of this money is the salary of the third deputy director-general of the Rescue Board established on 1 January. For five years, there would be a theoretical possibility of such retirement for 143 people in the field of rescue. Once again: practice shows that people who want to develop the rescue area as an office worker, for example, will certainly continue to work in the Rescue Board. But I stress that not all people are meant or want to be. That was all for short. I'm waiting for your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U11	Thank you. You have been asked a number of questions. Tarmo Leinatamm, please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U12	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, This amount is not really large, as you said, and as I read in this bill, EUR 115200. But it would be nice if you could say 100% cover. You mentioned that one of the deputies could be lost. Does this mean that the source of cover should still be found inside the field, not from outside, that we should look at the top end of the rescue service, find reserves there and give money to those who really need it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U13	Thank you. That's the question I was waiting for. The easiest answer would be to find this money in the state budget. However, if we approach more substantially, we have actually stressed from different points of view here in this Chamber that additional investments are needed to ensure the sustainability of the rescue sector. If we look at the amount currently in the state budget, we almost all agree that this does not create sustainability for the rescue sector. I allow myself, as a former executive, to say that, in addition to the fact that there is no doubt that more money should be given from the state budget to the rescue sector, in the last 10, 15, even 20 years, there has been an unsolved problem in many of our ministries, especially in ministries related to internal security, including national defence. It has been that there is a lot of duplication between ministries and agencies, which creates bureaucracy, and bureaucracy in turn generates additional costs. My opinion is that before we start shutting down the rescue commandos, we should look very seriously at which functions between the ministry and the agency could be combined, and only then could we go after the rescue commandos, the rescuers. But in answer to your question, Tarmo, I think that the whole area of rescue needs additional investment from the state budget over the next few years, and certainly also at the expense of internal resources. These are not small amounts, by the way. Those people who, according to the draft, would allow us to stay on waiting for an old-age pension would, for example, be able to organise this so-called voluntary rescue, even on the local government's payroll.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U14	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U15	Thank you very much. The first question was asked by Maestro Leinatamm. He and I also know very well that there are many such professions in the cultural field, whether or not ballet dancers (I have a ballerina at home) who no longer joke about all the jobs that require standing on their feet. But at the same time, as a representative of the liberal worldview, I realize that someone is paying for such a pension, such support for a person who is basically fully viable. On the basis of your legislative initiative, I ask: if Europe is in mainstream, how alone are we today compared to other Europe? What are general tendencies? Do you have that kind of information?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U16	Thank you, good Raivo! Let's start at the end. When we talk about internal security, in most European countries there is a strong understanding that those people who have constantly risked their lives and health in the interests of the state, especially in the interests of the security of the state, public authorities and the private sector, will be allowed to retire early. This does not mean that these people will disappear from the labour market. These people are mostly good professionals in the private sector in the same field. It is the duty of the State to compensate for the higher risk factors arising from their work in particular to their physical and psychological health. If you look a little wider, you were talking about a liberal world view, then neither does the coalition deny that such a law amendment is necessary. If you look at the Government's opinion on the draft law, the Ministry of the Interior welcomes this issue to be resolved, but postpones it to some distant future. Compared to police and military personnel, I stress, rescuers do not have a special pension, according to the State Pension Insurance Act, they are waiting for an old-age pension. They simply need the opportunity to retire early, due to their daily work, because they are unable to do this work until 63 or 65 years of age. The Home Office also sees the need to resolve this issue, but as I said, he's pushing it somewhere far into the future. I also stress what I said in my report. At present, there is often a search for the possibility that these people will receive a higher pension. They will only receive a higher pension if they have three years to their retirement age, which is now 63 years old, i.e. 60 years old. Not all people are able to work directly at the age of 60 as rescue workers or deminerators. That means they need to find an application elsewhere in the Rescue Department. We hold on to jobs, we don't let young people get on, and, ultimately, we actually pay them a much higher average salary than this compensation, even though they could get compensation and earn money in the private sector as taxpayers for the treasury and internal security.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U17	Thank you. The next questioner is Mati Raidma. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U18	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Thank you for a meaningful presentation and for getting to know the rescue problems. I've gotten to know the police's problems since then. Indeed, there is a problem, but the aim has been, at least for me, to harmonise the social guarantees of the rescue sector and the police. With this bill, you've moved away from that goal. My question is: does this bill mean that you want to keep the rescuers out of the discussion so that the rescuers and the police have the same social guarantees? Do you still see that there's really been an exception for the police and they're entitled to a special pension, but the rescuers aren't? That's what this bill means.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U19	Thank you. I don't completely agree with your question, Mati, but I guess I'm gonna have to argue from this remote. That is not the question. A special pension for police officers, as well as a special pension for defence personnel, has been created, let's say, in a different situation. In the 1990's, when the flow of the frame was quite high, special pensions were used to prevent the police from leaving the system. On the other hand, the situation of the rescuers is not similar to that of police and military personnel for more than five years. I agree that, in fact, all areas in which the state, national security, defence and national security are served should be similarly regulated. However, we do not know that we have discussed it both in our group and with the rescuers, when, as they say, the happy moment when pension issues in these areas are also decided on in connection with the law on public service. It's being postponed all the time. On the contrary, by this law, we are creating opportunities similar to those of rescue officers with police and military personnel. In fact, it is not even the size of the pension that is so important, but the fact that people at a certain age are not able to perform certain functions. For example, if we look at a special pension for police officers, the age of retirement is 55 years. Who's it meant for? Let's take a very simple example of life. A professional patrol officer is no longer effective on the street when he is 55 years old. If he doesn't see a career opportunity either, because he doesn't have a leader, for example, why should we be forced to hold this person in the system? If he wants to keep working on the system, he's working on it. If he doesn't want it, there's no need to hold him by force, waiting until he's 63, for example. As for those people who feel the need to pass on experience, who have leadership, who feel the need to further develop the system, for God's sake, it is only in the interests of the Rescue Board. But if we sign in the law that as a rescue worker can only retire at 60 years of age, that means we're five or six years old, but maybe ten years we're actually looking for a job for that person. In this sense, Mati, I am arguing against the fact that, on the contrary, we are bringing the rescuers to the police with this legislative amendment and why not just as close to the defence forces as possible, at least until the state finally resolves the pension issues of the so-called special services.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U20	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U21	Thank you. My question, too, concerns the real application of this legislative amendment. The idea of a legislative amendment, I have to admit, is good. But by the end of this year, the rescue service has set itself the goal of increasing the number of life-saving commandos to 59 (if I am not mistaken, they are now under 40). If we approve of this legislative amendment and if you were the head of the rescue service, what would you do? Would you increase the number of life-saving commandos or find the means to implement this legislative amendment and do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U22	Good question. I think that if I were the official who had to make such a decision, I would not leave the Minister of Finance until both of these issues were resolved. I would certainly not engage in such seeming activities, for example, that I would enhance the management of the Rescue Board by setting up the third deputy director-general of the Rescue Board, which alone, I would emphasise once again, rob in 2012, for example, about a third of the money needed to implement this same bill. In fact, both of these things that you mentioned are necessary. However, in the draft law on rescue services, which we are discussing today, I would stress that EUR 400 compensation for a rescue officer of a certain age is considerably lower than the State's salary of EUR 730. In fact, this person can no longer work as a smoke diver, i.e. to ensure life-saving capacity, but young people who could do so cannot be employed because all jobs have been filled. There are a certain number of jobs in the Rescue Board, and if we hold people artificially and let the younger ones get on, then it is clear that this is not the way we guarantee life-saving capabilities. In fact, we need to look at this matter, yes, I agree, Ülo, also more broadly, so that, for example, the increase in life-saving capabilities should not be at the expense of internal resources, which are certainly present both in the Rescue Board and in the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U23	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U24	Thank you. Good waitress! In the explanatory memorandum, you have said that rescue workers are, like, an exception because they work under emotional stress and are exposed to chemical extinguishing agents. At the same time, there are areas where exactly the same conditions apply as chemical equipment operators, laboratory workers, medical staff (doctors and nurses). Teachers also work under relatively tight conditions. On the other hand, the cashiers of the shopping malls also work in the forced position. What do you have to say to them? Should they also receive a special pension and allow them to retire early because they really cannot work exactly the same job for the rest of their lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U25	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U26	Thank you, Mr. Laurson. That's a brilliant question. I have a proposition for you: the next time there's an accident that you or your neighbor has a house on fire, call the cashiers at the nearest supermarket and call them off. But if you come from a joke to a more serious answer, the difference is that when a person works in a chemical industry or some other specialty, he knows his daily routine, how he is exposed to dangerous substances and health risks, but the savior doesn't know for any departures what risks he's exposed to in three, five, seven or ten minutes. There's a very big difference here, and that's what creates emotional tension.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As the initiator of the draft, did you not think that, for example, customs officials working in the field of administration of the Ministry of Finance within the Tax and Customs Board could deserve the same treatment and benefits as you offer rescue workers? Customs workers have to check trucks in the field, and when they go to check, they never know who they're going to meet. They must reject contraband, discover drugs, or work that has an impact on physical and mental health. Fortunately, our tax and customs officials do not strike like in Greece, but are calm. But don't you think they deserve to be treated the way you offer the rescuers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U28	Good questioner! That is a very correct question. My answer is yes, they certainly deserve to be treated the same way. I can give many, many examples of good tax and customs officials who have gone to work with the police since they worked at the Tax and Customs Board, and precisely for the reason of receiving a special police pension. There are dozens of people who initially worked for the police, then for some time they worked for the Tax and Customs Board and went back to the police. I don't think that's quite right. That is why the state needs to resolve the issue of public service, especially in certain areas. It's different with the cabinet officials. I do not remember whether I said this in my report, I think I said that only people who work in the so-called field will be affected. This does not concern office officials in any way. In fact, the state should resolve this issue equally for all of them. But since this has not been done for ten years, the rescuers are just like tax and customs officials, I agree, but we are talking about the rescuers as hostages to the unsolved issues of the state. The draft law has been drawn up for the benefit of rescue officers, but the same issue should certainly also be resolved for tax and customs officials. You shouldn't be looking for twists and run away to work with the police at some age, and the whole system will lose.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U29	Thank you. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U30	Good colleague! This possibility of waiting for retirement was created a few years ago because the Reform Party and the IRL are fundamentally opposed to the creation of new special pensions and have refused to do so. It is all the more surprising that you will be able to punish today from the Reform Party why you are extending your retirement pension waiting rather than extending the possibility of a special pension, and this right will also be required at the end of the day for tax and customs officials. I do not mind if this draft is developed for the extension of pension rights. You don't mind, do you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U31	Thanks, Eiki! I'm sure I don't mind. I support the same principle. The name'special pension' may not be right. In fact, we have an old age pension, but in some areas, the state invests more in it and allows people of certain ages to go to work in the national economy, as was said in the old days, rather than hold them by force, so that they have to wait until they are 60 before they can retire. Do you know how many people in the police system are slowing down to retire at some age? It's pointless. By paying them full wages, the state will actually spend more on them than it would if it paid the old-age pension. I do not think that any normal 55-year-old man, even if he stays on retirement pension, will be looking forward to that 400 euro if he, for example, turns 65 and is retired. No way! I think that rescuers, policemen, tax and customs officers as well as defence officers have a lot of application in this country, due to their rare experience in these structures. The rescue officer can help people cope with fire safety problems in Tamrexi, or he can develop a voluntary rescue command in the local government, once the national commando has been shut down.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U32	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U33	Thank you very much. I am still sticking to my opinion and fighting to ensure that the social guarantees of police and rescue workers are the same, not different. I don't want to support different schemes. For the sake of the stenogram, I would like to ask you this question: would you agree if the special pension for police officers would become the same as the social guarantee currently offered to rescuers in terms of harmonisation? Perhaps there would be a pre-retirement and, at a certain age, policemen would also receive a normal pension, just as you offer rescuers. Then this system would be the same. Are you willing to accept this, or are you arguing against it and saying that police work is different from rescue work? By the way, the work-death statistics are relatively similar in these two services.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U34	Thank you, Mati! I also say, for the sake of the verbatim, that I do not think that these two systems should differ. The word'special pension' is not, I think, very correct. The age of the old-age pension should be similar, with a similar breakdown in the differences concerning the increase in the old-age pension. For example, a rescue officer may, under the current law, have a 50% pension supplement if I am not mistaken. That's not bad at all. Police officers have complained that some officials have started to formalise their retirement pension because there is a situation that I am not talking about the Director-General, the Chief commissars or the commissioners, I am talking about the real-time workers, where it is even more favourable to get an old-age pension. Because when the salaries of officials were reduced (e.g. 8% at the time of the recession), the pension decreased. In essence, the situation is already that a special pension may be more useful for a person who is in a managerial position. I think this whole system should be measured in a very similar way. I agree with Aivar Sõerdi, who asked why the Tax and Customs Board did not have such a system at all. The state should solve this problem. But I don't see a solution. I think we've been talking for ten years that this system should be the same. The Home Office's answer to me right now tells me that we're having a good time and we're doing it. It is proposed here that a solution will be found in 2012. In this very hall, the Minister of Defence, Mart Laar, recently said that he would not withdraw from the principle of social security for members of the Defence Forces. The important thing is that the solution does not dilute the situation of people who have come to work in this system with a certain expectation. The legitimate expectation that the social situation of a person will not change is very important. That's my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U35	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U36	Good President! Andres! You've emphasized what is, I think, very right that smoke and chemical divers and deminers should get some kind of discount. When I read this bill, I see that you have also equalized the benefits of a rescue manager with those benefits that divers have. The explanatory memorandum states: "... has been operated or rescued by a rescue worker... " Is it quite right when everything is in the field, but some are in the lead in the field and are not going into a real fire?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U37	Thank you, Aivar! In fact, it is worth reading the law of salvation. The rescue law speaks of rescue work. Every job has a driver. When we're talking about rescue management, it's actually the rescue manager, given the narrow conditions in the command, where the life-saving capability is what it is, it's taking part in exactly the same things. It's part of the rescue. We're not talking about some rescue general who doesn't do rescue work. Here, by the way, you can also draw a very good parallel with health requirements. Grade 1 and 2 health requirements or categories, whatever we call them, must be met, for example, by deminerators, smoke divers, so-called chemical divers, but also by the rescue manager. He can't drive unless he meets those requirements. So the rescue law talks about rescue work, and every job has, as they say, the brigade, without it, you can't do that job. So the answer is that it's meant to be involved in the rescue, the law doesn't make any difference to the rescue director here. It's written here just to make it clear that there's someone in charge of every job.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U38	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I heard such a statement or idea that those who know that they work daily under health-related conditions have no problems, but others who do not know that their work or, let's say, the challenge can become a health-related threat fall into a much higher-risk category of workers. Is this statement based on some kind of research, or is it a subjective opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U40	Thank you, Thomas! I don't think there's any need for research here. That would be ridiculous. We're talking about a situation where rescue officers, police officers, defence forces work. They don't know what's gonna happen next. For example, they do not know (my knowledge of the fire is small) if they knock the door down, if the fire is practically suffocated, or if it gets oxygen and flies into their faces, or if a gas cylinder blows up. They don't know that. This leads to a completely different psychological situation. There's nothing to investigate. That's one thing. The second thing is that the state, I emphasise once again, calls on these people to work. They guarantee the security of the state, they guarantee the safety of citizens, they save the lives of citizens. Perhaps we will eventually come to the conclusion that, if people also work in the private sector under more risky conditions, private operators are offering them better social guarantees in private. That would be normal, that's world practice. Unfortunately, we don't have it. But the state must guarantee those officials who save the lives of national citizens every day a different level of social guarantees than other citizens. A very good example is this: why else would the state, for example, in the Penal Code, protect these same public policy defenders in a different way than the ordinary citizen? The sanctions for assaulting a law enforcement officer are far stricter than the sanctions for attacking a normal person.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U41	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U42	Thank you. Dear colleague Andres! When you were working on that law amendment, did you meet Kalev Timberg, Head of the Rescue Board? What's his opinion? Did you ask him why he's making a deputy appointment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U43	Thank you, Ülo! In drafting this bill, I didn't see the Director General of the Rescue Board, just as I don't see him explaining anything at all. I see his deputy explaining. Yesterday I finally saw him on TV, if I'm not mistaken, Leisis talking. There he also asked the journalists to leave because it was such a secret event. We held consultations with the Rescue Board during the preparation of this law. A deputy director-general of the Rescue Board took part in these meetings, and we consulted with the person who worked for the staff. I think this company was quite high in order to write these proposals into the draft. I have had a conversation with the Director-General of the Rescue Board about the creation of the third deputy post, but since this was a private conversation, I don't think I have to bring it out here very much, otherwise after the stories are the same as one of the members of the Riigikogu who published private conversations. In a few words, I can say that the Director General of the Rescue Board tried to explain to me that the third Deputy Director General is needed to manage the administrative activities that I believe have decreased since 1 January in the Rescue Board, as part of the Rescue Board has become the Alarm Centre and all the real estate has gone to Riigi Kinnisvara AS. But that's his choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U44	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U45	Thank you. It is customary that the Sots are very kind to allow in the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, these promises have much less coverage. I want to believe you sincerely, and I want to believe that you have thoroughly thought through this draft, that your promises now have a cover and you have thought through how to cover these costs from the state budget. Be so kind as to give those members of the Riigikogu who wish to be responsible and know that in the case of drafts that foresee expenditure, the sources, opportunity and reason for supporting this bill must also be mentioned!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U46	Good colleague! If I am not mistaken, then today's first or second question was I do not remember whether Tarmo Leinatamm or Raivo Järvi asked this question essentially the same, and I answered that question. Firstly, we must be guided by the fact that national internal security services and rescue services are a priority, because the number of deaths has started to increase, and not a small number. Unlike people with a liberal accounting outlook, our attitude is that human life is priceless. That is why we believe that the Rescue Board, as one of these organisations, needs additional investment. However, I would certainly like to say that, in addition to the much discussed administrative reform in this Chamber, our ministries also urgently need so-called state reform. It's worth coming to the ground, looking a little at our big jobs and comparing their functions to the functions of the ministries. We can see that a lot of things overlap. This is the issue that executive politicians should deal with. Unfortunately, in recent times, the executive has been involved in more scandals than in resolving the issues of peaceful development of the country. But, Javi, I answered your question by answering the first or second questioner. There are two areas for this: reviewing certain aspects of the state budget (let us be honest, it is possible to review the priorities of the state) and exploiting internal reserves. Once again, I come to the point that one third of the amount needed this year for the implementation of this law lies, for example, the newly created Deputy Director General's position in the payroll fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U47	Thank you. Please, Tavi Cloth, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U48	Thank you. I had a long talk in response, but a question of this kind would still require a much more specific answer. Of course, emergency services are a priority. Education and defence are equally priorities. We have more priorities and we are looking every day for solutions to finance these areas. In order for the draft to be taken seriously, it needs to have a more precise source of cover than some kind of review. I very much hope that you will give the draft procedure an opportunity to support this draft because, as I said, responsible members of the Riigikogu can only vote in favour of the draft if there is a cover for a beautiful promise. There are quite a number of people in this Riigikogu whose conscience does not allow us to make unprotected promises, yet you offer them to us. I'm offering you one more chance to say a specific source of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U49	This year's budget will require EUR 115200 to implement the draft, and at least in 2012, the amount can be found in the state budget in general as well as, as I said, in the internal resources of the Rescue Board, precisely as regards the review of the frame policy, the rest of the money can be found in the government reserve. The budgetary strategy may be revised in the next year's budget review for 2013. If necessary, tax changes must also be made to Estonian financial policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U50	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'm sure this is a very good bill. Your long explanations have probably made this clear to those who are not very competent in this area. I consider myself to be one of them. I have read about this subject only in the newspaper before, and for nine months this debate has not been raised here either. My question is as follows. Mr Raidma has also previously been a member of the Riigikogu. Has his struggles in previous periods resulted in a specific bill, or has the fight meant voting against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U52	Thank you, Helmen! I think Mati Raidma has done everything in her power to resolve this issue, but Mati Raidma is not the whole party or the whole government union. I think our goals are the same, the solutions may be different. I fully respect Mati Raidma's current efforts to improve the situation of the rescuers. But we have been saying that the whole thing is going behind it, that in the last ten years, no solutions have been found on the question of the harmonisation of pensions for special services.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U53	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U54	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There has been a lot of talk about the sources of cover. What do you think of the proposal if the sources of this draft were to be searched for, perhaps, along with the sources of the exemption of the land under home? Maybe both problems can be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U55	Thank you, my good colleague. That's one way. I say once again that the main source of cover for many of the financial issues of the Estonian state is a review of tax principles. But one can also joke the other way around: Why do you need a tax on the land of your home after the house has burned down?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U56	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U57	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, The argument you put forward in this draft is well-founded and sympathetic, and the amounts are not large either. But my question is this: do you share the idea that, if the police were to undertake a reform on the same basis, a comprehensive system of special pensions for the police could be used in emergency services, and the system would then have been financed on a uniform basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U58	Thank you. That's a pretty interesting question. I'm a little pessimistic here. I told you earlier when I answered the question that the system of special police pensions was not a kettle where you could take much, because many policemen who were preparing to retire had realised that it was more appropriate for them to go to retirement. Once again, this is about ratings, who must be most concerned about. So I don't think that's a pretty good solution. What is good, however, is that we can better plan pension solutions for all these services together, as they say, on the basis of one boiler. We know how many people work in internal security, internal defence, we know what our opportunities and needs are, and this is how we actually plan the pension system. I agree that, at the moment, all these special pension systems have gone in their direction and that it is difficult to change. But I stress once again: I do not understand why rescue officers, whose occupational risks are no less than policemen or public defenders (I say once again that they are even more exposed to daily health risks), should suffer such unequal treatment. I would also like to stress once again that the amounts needed are not high. I will also take this opportunity to tell Mr Taavi, who was not in the Chamber before and who heard that the average salary of those people who are now often kept at work as officials and who could bring tax revenue to the state while working elsewhere is almost twice as high as the compensation we are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U59	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U60	Thank you. Good waitress! Did I misunderstand that if this law came into force and these people were to receive an old-age pension, they could at the same time go to the labour market and essentially earn that money back to the state through taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U61	Thank you, Tarmo! You got it right. I would like to stress once again that I do not want to believe that a 55-year-old man who, of course, is no longer able to work in this area (maybe we would not want him to work there, because he might already pose a risk to the people he is going to save) would fall asleep on the same small compensation, i.e. by receiving a pension benefit of EUR 400. He certainly has some kind of interest, perspective, and purpose. I think he can live a perfectly normal life, as they say, the life of a civilian and earn that money back. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U62	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Andres Anvelt. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, vice-chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! For the guests, I will say once again that I am the communicator of the Commission's positions, not the Central Party, nor the communicator of my positions. The Committee on Legal Affairs held its meeting on 9 January 2012 from 11 a.m. until 11.51 a.m. Marko Pomerants, Kalle Laane, Andres Anvelt, Jaanus Tamkivi, who was the substitute for Kalle Jents, Neeme Suur, Siim Kabrits and Margus Hanson, who was Valdo Randpere's alternate. Carina Rikart and Raini Laide took part as advisors. There was no Igor Gräzin and Peter Võsa. While Mr Anvelt gave a very thorough overview on behalf of the initiators a little while ago, he also gave a comprehensive overview of this draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Neeme the Great contributed to the introduction of the bill. I will talk more about the government's position on this bill. This was also briefly touched by Mr Anvelt in his presentation, but I will perhaps pass it on further. The position of the Government of the Republic, as communicated by the Ministry of the Interior, is negative. The position highlights three reasons why support for the draft is not considered appropriate: '1. The draft aims to create additional social guarantees for a certain group of rescue workers. Although the benefit of a survivor waiting for an old-age pension is not, by its nature, a preferential or special pension, it is a benefit whose payment principles should be viewed in a comprehensive manner in the framework of the reform of the preferential and special pensions agreed in the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2011 to 2015. On this basis, it is not reasonable to initiate a substantive debate on the draft before the Ministry of Social Affairs has presented proposals for the proposed reform in 2012. The Ministry of the Interior considers it important that the social guarantees of civil servants who risk their lives for society and their neighbours must be comparable and balanced. When developing solutions, account should be taken of the fact that the motivation and legitimate expectations of committed people are not affected. 2. The draft entitles a rescue or demining worker, without taking into account the individual state of health of the rescue worker, to remain in waiting for a benefitable old-age pension. As the explanatory memorandum refers to the need to amend the law based on the fact that the health status of the rescue or demining worker does not allow work to continue in the workplace, the content of the draft cannot be considered to be consistent with the objectives described in the explanatory memorandum. 3. We also note that the content of the proposed draft is not unambiguous. Pursuant to § 19 (1) of the Rescue Services Act, a survivor's allowance is paid in anticipation of an old-age pension only if the person does not receive a public pension. This condition is not laid down in the draft, which means that a rescue or demining worker is entitled to the rescue pension at the same time as receiving a public pension, e.g. a disability pension. As the explanatory memorandum does not explain the content of this amendment, it can be assumed that this was not the purpose of the drafters and that this was a mistake. ' These are three reasons why the Government of the Republic does not support this draft. It was precisely these that were the subject of the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. So what was decided? It was decided to refer the draft to the first reading on Tuesday, 17 January 2012 of the draft plenary session of the Riigikogu with a proposal to reject it. The proposal not to complete the first reading of the draft 107 received 4 votes in favour and 3 votes against. As the chairman of the committee says, Kalle Laane won the competition to report the committee's report, which I won. To be more precise, force lines 4 to 3 ran between the coalition and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U64	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Did the Commission mention that we also have mountain rescues that also dive into smoke and gas? All of this is done underground, with special conditions. These people are entitled to certain pension benefits. Did you or did you not compare these conditions in the Commission? Do you think it should be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U66	Thank you for your question, good Lembit. In particular, I represent the Commission here and present the Commission's decisions in the debate. We did not discuss the escape of the mountain or the exceptions it entails. My personal view is that this is certainly a part of the overall rescue that cannot be looked at separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U67	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U68	Thank you. Dear waitress, This raised the question of the sources of cover. This important issue was certainly discussed in the Commission, and sources of cover were sought. Could you introduce this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U69	Thank you, good Evgeny, for the question. I must admit that there was no debate on the sources of cover in the Commission. The main debate was on whether or not such principles need to be incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U70	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U71	Thank you very much. I think that, in essence, the matter is clear and the final picture of it will be given immediately by the next vote. I'm gonna ask you a formal question. You said this bill was decided to bring this hall to its first reading on Tuesday, January 17th. But it's Thursday, January 19th. If our distant descendant investigates this matter a hundred years later, he wonders what happened there. Please explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U72	Good questioner! You have a perfectly correct formal remark. That date was changed. At first, that date was January 17th. I'm sorry! This question shows that at least one member of the Riigikogu listened attentively to the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U73	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kalle Laane. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Eiki Nestor, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U74	Good manager! I'm sorry if I'm getting carried away, but these guys here filled me up! Let me talk to you about a little responsibility. How to make this reform, which has been discussed here today and what everyone is waiting for, has been known for ten years. But for ten years, no one has been able to do it. How to reform the pension system for deserved years, for people working under special conditions and for public employees, it is invented. If anyone doesn't know yet, go ask the Chancellor of the Ministry of Finance. One responsible politician will do this reform within ten years, not bounce back different ideas because of this unfinished reform! If you've been such a loser that you haven't done it in ten years, then you're gonna be a loser for the next four years because you can't see anyone doing anything. By the way, when we are talking about the entire pension system, this reform, for example, would be a source of money for public pension insurance. This would have a much greater effect in terms of money than raising the retirement age that we did and where the monetary gain for the state pension system is much smaller. The basics of this reform are simple. Those who are working now must not lose anything, they have legitimate expectations. For others (i.e. a policeman, a savior or, for my part, a tax officer in a particular position) a new system must be established where the state ensures that these people retire early because of their working conditions. It just has to be done. We didn't get any sources of cover for land tax. When we asked where the source of the tax fall was years from now, no one said anything either. By putting together all these things that the pension reform of people working under special conditions and, in other cases, the sources of cover, I say that the actual source of cover is the removal of the Reform Party from the government. Then something will start to move here in Estonia. Keeping such meaningless dogma uncles there is detrimental to the country, to the people, and also to the rescuers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U75	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane, as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U76	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to remind you of some history. The originator replied in a very busy discussion to the question whether rescue workers should not have the same special pension options as other special servants. It has to be said that this has also been discussed for a long time in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. This was the most advanced in the previous Riigikogu if the threshold for the special pension for rescuers had almost been exceeded. Unfortunately, it didn't go too far, but it was behind the push of a certain vigilante's button. I think Mati knows that very well. We are of the opinion that special servants must certainly have the same conditions of employment. This creates a sense of security for the entire Estonian people, not just for those who work in these services. So, sober your mind in making decisions!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U77	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U78	As history went down here, I just wanted to say that the responsible head of the Socialist Interior Minister Pihl did the 12-hour watch of the rescuers and, to be honest, that 24-hour guard was removed, this porridge is still being minted. Perhaps every party has had good and bad decisions. But I will stick to the view that the principle of the same social guarantees for police and rescue officers could be supported in action by both the opposition and the coalition. That would be the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-01-19_U79	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Since the proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading, we must vote on this proposal. We're going to prepare the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the commission to reject the draft 107 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 46 members of the Riigikogu, 35 against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Draft 107 has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a busy day. Closure of the sitting at 11.20 a.m.
