ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 42 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 59. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U2	Let's start by answering questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question is not to be asked because Mr Simson is ill. My colleague, Helmen Kütt, will start with a question for Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Social Affairs! Before I ask my question, I would very much like to express my gratitude and appreciation to you and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund, but especially to the Stomatology Clinic of the University of Tartu Hospital and its director, Dr. Taavo Seedre, whose efforts have made since April-May this year, it is possible for people with special needs to receive dental care in general anesthesia. Mai Treial, an active member of the previous Riigikogu, and the media, also played a major role in resolving this issue, I am referring to the programme 'Putepunkt' and the Touch Points of the magazine. The question is that according to the information, this treatment will only take place in Tartu, but the negotiations will also take place with several hospitals in Tallinn. Perhaps you will share information on how far these negotiations are and when will there be hope of such a medical service in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U4	Thank you for your question. I, too, will join you in expressing my gratitude, in particular, to the University of Tartu Hospital and to the fact that this service has been organised there. But I have said before in this Chamber that if this service is offered only in Tartu, it is obviously too little. There should be at least two places in Estonia where dental care for people with special needs is organised. The initial agreements in Tallinn were with the Western Tallinn Central Hospital, where it was prepared to start providing this service. Unfortunately, Western Tallinn Central Hospital said some time ago that they didn't want to do it. That is why we have been looking for new partners. We have reached the most advanced stage in the negotiations with the North Estonian Regional Hospital, which prepares both the furnitureing of the dental office and the training of people. At the moment, there is no more to say than that we are waiting for the end of the negotiations with the North Estonian Regional Hospital and we hope that we will be able to perform this service just as nicely in Tallinn as in Tartu. I personally think that if in Tartu this service, in cooperation with the children's clinic, is provided for children, then in Tallinn there should be cooperation between the North-Estonian Regional Hospital and the Children's Hospital so that children and adults can receive it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U5	Please, Mr Küttt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Little trouble comes with me with great joy. At present, the health insurance fund has a budget of EUR 12750 for dental care services for nearly 50 people, i.e. anesthetic money. If it turns out that by August, for example, this money is already out of Tartu, is there any hope of getting more? What about those who need this treatment? Today in Estonia, dentists believe that there are over 10,000 people who need such services, but who have not yet been able to contact a dentist. What do you think is the solution? If this money runs out at the health insurance fund, but there's a need for a service, what happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U7	Thank you. The Health Insurance Board has also carried out ongoing re-evaluations of the different treatments in the past years, if necessary. For some types of treatment there is overfilling, for some types of treatment there is underfilling. It's the same with this service. This is a statutory service for which the health insurance fund will certainly be prepared. But, of course, the service must be essentially provided for. So there is definitely a willingness to make changes between the lines within the year. We are still trying to get the service running properly first, and if it works properly, we will also see if there is a real need for it and how much it is that we can plan the money properly by making the budget of the Health Insurance Fund for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U8	Please, Mr Küttt, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Today, the House of People with Disabilities, patient associations and, above all, those who need this service, i.e. adults with special needs, are very happy to have a place to turn to. My question, however, is that the municipality often fails to cover transport costs. The Chairman of the Social Committee, Margus Tsahkna, has expressed the opinion that almost EUR 800,000 is needed to enable all of these people to receive this service. What are you forecasting? I know you're not a psychic, but what amount could be on this budget line in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U10	Thank you. I'm not even going to predict. I say once again that it also depends on whether this service is available in both Tallinn and Tartu, both in Northern Estonia and South Estonia. If we can start providing this service in Northern Estonia, we will be able to make better estimates of what this amount is. As far as transport is concerned, it is very unfortunate if the municipalities are unable to provide it if necessary. When we talk about people with special psychiatric needs, the number of these people isn't that high. The 10,000 offered by dentists cover not only people with special psychological needs but also people with special needs. In any case, the service can be offered more. We will certainly not achieve that in all general hospitals or, say, hospitals in county centres, dental care can be performed under anaesthesia. This service is most likely to remain in Tallinn and Tartu. It is clear that people living outside Tallinn and Tartu must be able to reach the service with their own help or with the help of the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U12	Thank you. Dear Minister, If we look at dental care more generally, I think it has been the most burning problem in healthcare for years at all. Recently, the newspaper had a highly respected Doctor Adik Levin article. He wrote that the situation has gotten so bad that people are willing to pull out all their teeth and put prosthetics on it, because at least there's a way to live. Without your teeth, you don't eat or do anything. The long-term unemployed already account for nearly 60% of the unemployed. What, though, can you say to them? In the near future, are you still planning on making up for dental care? At the very least, the 300-kroon preventive screening support could be restored first, although it does not quite get anything for it. Tell me, please, what are the plans for the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U13	Thank you. I guess we've already exchanged these ideas here. It's the same. This year's budget is in place, this year's treatment preferences are clearly in place. As you yourself know, we will finance more care, and there will be an increase in care funding for next year. If we look at dental care, the treatment volumes of minors and the elderly will definitely remain the same. Whether there will be any additional opportunities depends, in particular, on the forecast of the cost of the health insurance tax. We know that if we increase care this year by 12%, for example, then next year much more money will be needed, because care clinics will be ready in a row and in a row. There is also a very large complex in Haaberst, here in Tallinn, Hiiu Children's Street 1 has just completed a large care complex. Other types of treatment are equally important. The Health Insurance Board, which also includes members of the Riigikogu, will consider these priorities. The same message about dental care is exactly the same: we need to put opportunities and needs side by side and choose which services we can provide with this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U14	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lenk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! As I understand from your answer, there's nothing special about dental care in the Ministry, and everything goes on the same way because the fact that there's no money can be said by any minister on this remote. You don't have a dental program. Helmen Kütt asked about the disabled. Here's my question: don't you think we're creating more people with disabilities? As we know, health begins from the mouth, and every doctor knows it. When will this problem of the Toothless People be solved? I just used the headline "The People of Toothless" from the press here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U16	Thank you. I have a feeling you're creating these headlines, talking about a toothless people and anyone. We must also be realistic about organising health care and funding health insurance and see what are our priorities. As far as dental care is concerned, dental care, in turn, has priorities. These priorities for this year are dental care for minors, older people and people with disabilities. Those are the priorities. This is the way we look at it in every area. I believe that if we were to discuss care treatment here, you would ask me the exact same rhetorical question: when will elderly people get care care? The answer is that they get better care treatment when municipalities come back here. We already agreed in 2004 that municipalities would come to the aid of care funding. At this point, I must say, yes, even to Tallinn, that it is very nice that the participation in care care for underprivileged people, not all but the uninsured, will be covered, but that is all, there will be nothing more. In 2004, it was agreed that a third would be covered by the State, 15% would be covered by the person and 50% by the municipality. Currently, this 50% part of the municipality is covered by the state, and also next year we will plan it. So, yes, it is a matter of prioritisation. In dental care, we have prioritised children and the elderly.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U17	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Priit Toobal, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The new house of broadcasting has been being discussed for years. It has been written in several broadcasting development plans and it is also in the draft development plan currently under discussion. Broadcasting itself hopes that the construction of a new house can start in the coming years. Both you and the Minister of Culture have confirmed that the construction of the Estonian National Museum will take place without any support money. Does this knowledge that the Estonian National Museum lost euro money affect the construction of a new building for broadcasting, or is its construction also on the agenda? If so, when could the construction process begin?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U20	Thank you. The Riigikogu decided to build the Estonian National Museum already in 1996 and then it was decided that the Estonian National Museum would come to Tartu. I believe that the revision of this issue is not topical. The Estonian National Museum could not be financed from the European Union's tourism measure, but this does not mean that this project would not be a good museum project. This is a good museum project and the Estonian people must ensure that a new building is built to replace the building of the Estonian National Museum, which was destroyed in the war. The broadcasting building has never competed with the building of the Estonian National Museum. The Broadcasting Council will decide when they will start construction. As we know, the Government of the Republic has given two quite large plots of land to national broadcasting on two occasions. The last property was over 7,000 m2. In doing so, the Government of the Republic has shown that it is important for it to build a new building for national broadcasting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U21	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! As your head of government, do you support the construction of a new building for national broadcasting or do you not consider it useful and think that it is better to contribute to the technical base and people and thus improve the quality of the programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U23	Thank you. As head of government, I do not intend to interfere in the independence of the management of national broadcasting. The national broadcasters have a broadcasting council that decides on the priorities, whether to acquire technology, buildings, employees' wages or hire additional staff.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U24	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U25	Thank you. My second point of clarification is about pay. In 2010, broadcasters were given the choice of a 10% salary reduction or one month's unpaid leave per year. In fact, the income of all broadcasters was reduced and the former income was allowed to be restored as soon as possible. Each year, during the budget negotiations, the Broadcasting Council has approached the Minister of Finance and the Government with a request to restore the former salary level and asked for additional resources. So far, promises have not been fulfilled, i.e. you have received a negative response. When is it hoped that the broadcasters will be able to recover their former salaries? When will this first chance come?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U26	Thank you. As far as I am aware, this year the budget for national broadcasting increased by 3.9% compared to last year. If the economy continues to grow at a pace like last year, then the hope of a new house will probably become more real. But you know as well as I do that the Riigikogu can only distribute the money that the hardworking hands of the taxpayer have paid to the Treasury. If this money is not enough to build a house in one year and raise wages, then it must be accepted. Efforts must be made to ensure that there are more jobs in Estonia and that the budget receives more tax money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U27	Now two issues registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Heimar Leng.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U28	Thank you. Prime Minister! I understand you don't want to interfere openly with broadcasting management. That is why I ask you, as a consumer of broadcasting services, as it is fashionable to say, or a television viewer: how do you appreciate the tendency that the audience of Estonian public-law, or almost national, television, is constantly shrinking, but the audience of commercial channels and the newly created Tallinn Television is growing very quickly? Is it not perhaps the issue of management that the level of the programmes is weak, or do you still put it all on account of the fact that there is no new house?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U29	Thank you. This increase in the audience of Tallinn Television is definitely your wishful thinking. This argument is true given the time when television was not available and the audience was therefore zero. The audience of Tallinn Television has, of course, grown compared to this time. However, I do not agree with the argument that the number of national broadcasters or viewers is steadily decreasing. On the contrary, I can see that Radio 4 is in a very strong position, the position of Rainbow Radio is very strong, the position of other national broadcasting programmes is also very strong. If you look at both Estonian Television programmes, the first programme has often been the most visible channel in Estonia, i.e. commercial channels have fallen under the first programme of Estonian Television. This has been, in my opinion, a relatively seasonal rule for years, that once more commercial channels are viewed in Channel 2 and TV3, once the first programme of Estonian Television.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U30	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the spot, Mr Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U31	Thank you. Prime Minister! The viewing capacity of Tallinn Television, by the way, is increasing all the time. I think it's really great, because one city this big is supposed to have its own television. For example, there are several urban televisions in Brussels and there are televisions throughout Europe's large cities. That's great. But of course, it is not nice that the viewing capacity of Estonian Television is decreasing. If you look at the way the broadcasts are conducted, the viewing of Estonian Television news programmes has been very often low and private channels have been ahead. We know that the mandate of the Council will soon end, the time will come. There's one person relatively close to you by the party line right now. Are you going to continue this route or are you going to make some shifts, precisely so that Estonian Television programmes gain more popularity?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U32	The members of the Broadcasting Council are appointed by the Riigikogu. It's your decision you're going to appoint to the Broadcasting Council. The members of the Broadcasting Council take decisions on the future of national broadcasting. The Prime Minister won't do it. Let us remind you once again that Estonian Television was the most popular television broadcasting organisation, for example, when the Song Battle was on the air and when the Olympic Games were on the air. Other channels were then unable to compete with Estonian Television. I would not go along with such a padupessimism, nor would I agree with your argument that the audience or audience of national broadcasting is constantly declining. Wait a few more months and you'll see again that the places in the listening-to chart have changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U33	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U34	The next question is for my colleague, Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, the Minister of Agriculture, to Mrs Tuksole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! As of 15 February, the PRIA had taken a decision on the investment aid for the livestock building (measure 1.4.2) to allocate EUR 12.1 million to 49 companies. I would very much like to congratulate you on giving another EUR 4 million for this measure. The applicants were 123 and the requested amounts exceeded EUR 30 million. It is known that, in addition to the fact that the application must be properly completed, it is also important that the application complies with certain criteria under which all applications are ranked when determining the refund. Please explain for what and how many points applicants will receive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U36	Thank you for your question. Indeed, in the case of investment measures, applications are generally more than the money foreseen. It is therefore necessary to clarify the ranking of those who receive the money, whose projects are estimated to be better and which projects are more likely to be realised. The money will also be allocated on the basis of this ranking. The PRIA has a total of over 80 actions with sub-measures. I am not in a position to give you the criteria for evaluating the various measures and for which criteria how many points are awarded. This will be done on the basis of the PRIA methodology. It will be implemented by the PRIA with precise monitoring of regulations and methodology. If you want to get more detailed information on the size of the scores for each individual measure, we are ready to answer you in writing, either through the PRIA or directly from the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U37	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U38	Thank you for your answer. It's a shame you're not familiar with this evaluation system. But I can tell you that one of the grounds for the score is the age of the owner of the company. For youth, which is said to be a passing phenomenon in time, ten points are given. How do you comment on the situation where one farm is registered in a city, its agricultural activity takes place in a county, and the holder group at the time the application is submitted belongs to a person who complies with the youth parameter in the European Union, but the 60-year-old owner of the other holding, who has been active for 20 years, is in a situation of discrimination compared to the owner of the 30-year-and-a-half-year period of employment? Isn't this the yoke system?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U39	Thank you. More generally, any criteria are, in a sense, restrictive and harassing someone's rights. If we set any priorities, of course those who do not meet these criteria will lose their support. This is not the case with age censorship alone. We have, for example, measures that give scores for the fact that the applicant is a woman, he is a beginner, he is engaged in joint activities, etc. All these criteria can be said of discrimination, but I do not see it that way. We're trying to have a choice. I think that these criteria are fully in line with all rights and existing laws. It is true that all such choices represent a risk that these criteria or preferences will be exploited by shadows. People are sought, entrepreneurs who meet the criteria and are eligible for investment aid so that they can apply for investment grants. That's a problem. This is the case for the criterion of young entrepreneurs, for the criterion of joint action, and I must say that, unfortunately, also for the criterion of ladies. If the ladies are to belong to the board of directors, the company will probably have such a board of directors that it will be found either fictitiously or symbolically and the documents will be drawn up. We have a choice whether we will give up this direction at all, or we will try to comply with these criteria as much as possible. We have chosen this other path.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U40	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U41	Thank you very much. I didn't understand the clue to the ladies, but okay. You have mentioned very rightly recently that jobs are the key to rural development. Among the applicants for investment grants in several counties are senior farmers in Estonian terms, who are of regional political importance in the region and have employed at least a hundred people all these years, while paying taxes to the state and calculating the economic recession at a time when they are prepared to bear the co-financing obligations. However, such important indicators have not been taken into account when establishing score points. Why has this not been done and how will you feel about taking these indicators into account for investment applications in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U42	Thank you. The various criteria have always been the subject of a dispute. This is one of the main arguments concerning the allocation of investment grants. This took place even before the rural development plan, which is currently in force, was adopted, and this took place when different regulations were developed. This dispute has continued during the period of validity of the regulations. Between 2007 and 2012, several regulations have also been amended in line with practice and with questions and problems encountered in life. Now I am talking about investments and jobs. If we consider it only important to have jobs on land, also in the agricultural sector, we would probably not be able to take investment measures, because the absolute number of jobs is usually reduced as a result of investment measures. Hard manual work will be eliminated and replaced by machinery, equipment and new technologies, work will be made more efficient, resulting in fewer jobs in the agricultural sector, no more jobs will be created. This is also one reason why we cannot take into account the existence of jobs or jobs created so trivially, so simply or directly. New initiatives and projects, new jobs are a question of their own. We will, of course, support the opening up of new companies through the realisation of a new business project, but it is not very sensible to apply job increases as a criterion for existing investment grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U43	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Why have you not taken the regional aspect into account when determining the ranking of aid applicants? For example, eight applications from Põlvamaa and nine applications from Järvamaa did not fit in at all among the recipients of investment grants. Do you think it would be wise to consider the regional aspect as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U45	Thank you. However, the regional aspect will be taken into account for the different measures. There are a number of measures in the rural development plan. There is also a heated dispute as to why, for example, in the municipalities bordering Tallinn in Harjumaa, the possibilities for receiving grants are more modest than in South Estonia or why, for example, projects for sites with more than 4000 inhabitants are not eligible under the Leader programme. So we have taken the regional aspects into account for the different criteria. Each investment that is made is different, it needs to be viewed on an individual basis. If you have good proposals for individual measures, how the regional policy criteria could be applied more strongly than in the meantime, then be good and make these proposals. I'm sure we'll discuss them. But I assure you, this has been a constant subject of dispute. I will respond exactly as I did to the previous questioner: the criteria restrict someone and give an advantage to someone, and this is the subject of very sharp disputes. I think that normally we have found the optimal compromise on investment subsidies, but it is certainly possible to do even better. If there are good suggestions, we will try to take them into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U46	The last issue registered on the ground, please, Mr Kõiv.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. People complain because they are not satisfied with the PRIA procedures and complaint resolution procedures. One person wrote to me that the PRIA once interpreted one regulation in the same way and once differently, so he was given less money than he originally hoped. There are also complaints that there is such a practice in the PRIA that when someone gives negative feedback, harsh checks are sent and something has to be found with the complainer. Do you have any complaints of this kind about the activities of the PRIA or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U48	Thank you. The distribution of money tends to be less shared than the applicant has hope or expectation. I can assure you, that's true. This is also the case for agricultural subsidies, they are direct payments, investment grants or national subsidies paid from the Estonian state budget. Expectations, hopes, desire and willingness to receive grants are greater than there are opportunities. It's always like that. As regards disputes and disputes about the distribution of money in the PRIA, there are many of them. Yes, the Ministry of Agriculture is also, from time to time, forced to deal with various problems and appeals. In most cases, the PRIA solves the contention itself, while some individuals reach us. The Ministry of Agriculture usually cannot interfere with the appeal process. If the opposing party who filed the appeal is not satisfied with the solution, it shall have the right and opportunity to apply to the courts. There have also been cases that have been brought to court. There's a logical process here to resolve these arguments. Yes, it is true that there are many disputes. However, if we compare the activities of the PRIA with those of other payment agencies in the European Union, we will have no more disputes and disputes than in other Member States, rather less. Misuse, or inappropriately paid subsidies, is the least likely to occur in the EU in the PRIA. It is, on the one hand, the recognition of the PRIA that it follows very closely the criteria and regulations and is good; on the other hand, it is, of course, very unpleasant and uncomfortable for an applicant who feels that control is rigorous. But I think that the use of taxpayers' money must be under very strict control and transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U49	Thank you very much, Minister for Agriculture. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U50	The next question is from Mr Vassilyev to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U51	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! In spring, we had a very exciting and discussion-rich debate here on the issue of land tax exemption. At the time, you had a rather specific vision of how the exemption from the land tax should compensate local authorities. It also sounded in this Chamber that this compensation or mechanism should be developed as early as possible in order to enable municipalities to plan their own budget. It was also mentioned that it would have been good if this had been the case last year. So far, we have not received any drafts on this issue. My question is, why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U52	Thank you. My position is the same: the non-refundable income from the abolition of land tax on local authorities must be compensated and compensated through the Equalisation Fund, as the income from the land tax and the amount of funds paid by the Equalisation Fund are generally highly correlated. All local governments, including those who, before the Riigikogu lost the land tax, decided to waive the land tax by their act, may take into account the increase in funds from the Equalisation Fund. The bill's probably coming up somewhere. If you had asked a specific question, I could have given an answer for a particular minister at what stage this draft is at.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U53	Please, Mr Vasilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U54	I ask you this: is there any hope that it will be here in the coming months?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U55	There's hope. I see no reason why this should be delayed, because we do not have much uncertainty on this issue. We have promised very clearly that the local authorities will be compensated for the loss of income, and we will also keep our promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U56	Now three issues registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Lembit from Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U57	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! As the topic is the future of local governments, I would like to ask you the following question: The National Audit Office has performed very sharply on the subject of administrative reform. Your coalition partner tries to do something about it from time to time, at least according to the story, but the Prime Minister and the government are of the opinion that, as is the case, nothing is done, no carrot or whip policy is pursued. Why do you feel that way? Do you think that the current situation of our administrative-territorial division is good and normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U58	Thank you. The question is above all the point of view: who should the local government be regarded as? Of course, if someone considers a local authority to be a service provider, it can be based on some kind of application for efficiency and say that the bigger, the better. Although the administrative-territorial reforms carried out in Europe unambiguously confirm that the quality of services may improve in the larger local government, this better quality will certainly cost the taxpayer more, i.e. the administrative costs of the large local government will increase exponentially. There's a very simple explanation. While many processes in a small organisation are self-organizing, these processes need to be formalised in a large organisation, the activities of the departments need to be coordinated and this will lead to an increase in expenditure. I refer, for example, to the work of Professor Wolfgang Drechsler, which describes administrative-territorial reforms in Germany and Belgium. According to memory, they took place in the 1980s. It is clear that administrative expenditure per capita is increasing sharply in the large local government. For me, a local government is not just a service institution. The most important task of local government in the democratic system of state lies in the balancing of its central authority. Local government, based on a strong local identity, must balance central authority. This has been the definition of local government for at least the last 150 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U59	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U60	Thank you. Prime Minister! Cutting the local government money was one of the first things the coalition did in this hall a few years ago. At times, I feel that rural development is currently based mainly on the desire to be caught, on the desire to have more European money. The hope is now to get more money from the European Union so that local governments develop a little further. Another human development report, not the last one, but the last one, criticised this financing system very strongly. We also approached the Supreme Court once, and there came the General Assembly's decision, which said that the financial affairs are out of place, we need to make clear what is someone's duty and what is not. How far is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U61	As far as you know, the 2011 budget already made a clear distinction between the functions of the local government and those of the central government performed by the local authorities, and these activities have already been clearly distinguished in the budget. However, I disagree with you about the cuts. I have already mentioned once from this platform that the income from personal income tax to local governments was 7.2% lower in 2010, compared to 2007 before the crisis, while the income from the state budget was 37.3% lower in 2010. The priority is very clear here. First, the costs of the central government have been cut and then the income of the local government has been reduced. Now, the assignment distinction. This distinction is not one act according to the Supreme Court ruling either, but it is a process that continues. For many functions, it is discussed whether the function falls within the competence of the central government, the tasks of the central government or the tasks of the local government. I'm sure it's the central government's job to record births and deaths. This task is currently carried out by the local government and money has been allocated from the state budget to carry out this task. The same is true of other national functions. No national function has been assigned to the local government in such a way that no resources have been provided for this task.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U62	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I was surprised that you offered a fine-tuning fund as a compensation mechanism for the abolition of land tax. In the past, you have offered to increase the share of income tax and thereby compensate for it. Why the sudden change of heart? Could this be due to the fact that not all municipalities are getting a share of the Equalisation Fund, for example Tallinn is not getting a share of it, and therefore it is not as if they should be compensated for the land tax exemption? Couldn't that be the reason for the change of heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U64	Thank you. Don't count the change of heart here. The fine-tuning fund, raising the personal income tax rate or increasing the tax share of individual income paid to the local government, for me, are of the same meaning. Anyone who misses a tax will be compensated. Tallinn can count on the same percentage increase. I'm saying, instead of 11.4%, this percentage should rise to 11.72% or 11.74%. I don't remember exactly. Thus, the municipality's income base increases. For me, this source is not the first priority right now. Tallinn will certainly receive compensation even though they have already lost the land tax earlier. That is what we have agreed on. What exactly this technique is going to be doesn't matter. It can be taken into account that it is compensated.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U65	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U66	The next question is from colleague Marika Tuus-Laul to Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U67	Thank you. Dear Minister, My subject concerns poverty in general. Just a few days ago, I read in the paper how a very elderly lady, a former Girl, said she had survived a lot of governments, but she has never seen so many poor people as she has in Estonia. We know that one in five children lives in poverty, one in three over 65 years old pensioners live below the poverty line and one in one in one. When it comes to the unemployed, it is well known that the long-term unemployed, who have been unemployed for two or three years, are already 60% and that unemployment is even increasing. What are the solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U68	Thank you. If you say any percentages and numbers, then tell me exactly whether you are talking about relative poverty, absolute poverty or what. When it comes to what Estonia is doing or what state we are in, I believe that the good questioner also knows it or has at least read the reports on poverty published by the European Commission. If you look at relative poverty indicators on the Eurostat website, you will see that Estonia's position is not very bad compared to other European countries. If we look at social transfers, I believe that a good questioner has been in the Riigikogu so long that he knows what the impact of social transfers is, if we look at their impact on poverty and relative poverty, then we can see that if there is relative poverty in Estonia by more than 40% before the transfers, then after the transfers it will be 16 to 17%. One of the biggest preventers of relative poverty in recent years has undoubtedly been that our pension system has enabled the pension index to be no less than 1 and pensions to rise in 2009. We will continue this work. But to sum up what is needed very briefly, we need our country as a whole to become more prosperous. In order for us to become wealthier, it is necessary to ensure proper economic growth and a decent standard of living.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U69	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U70	Thank you. If I had talked about relative poverty, I would have said that one in four children, or 63000 children, lives in poverty or at risk of poverty. I said that one in five children live in poverty, below the absolute poverty line. There are over 45,000 children. That's a very, very large number. These figures have been getting worse just in the last three years. There were the same ministers in the previous government. I am not talking so much about the risk of poverty as about the deep poverty of children. The number of applications for income support has also tripled. Don't you need some kind of national program here? We're just saying it's gonna get better when our wealth increases. So how does it increase so much, this wealth? What are you planning?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U71	Thank you. If you refer to newspaper articles, it is also reasonable for you to read the article by Hanneli Rudi, published in one of the Estonian newspapers on 15 February, which discusses Eurostat data. Its title is 'Eurostatistics: Child poverty is not the worst in Estonia'. All these indicators, as well as comparison with other Member States of the European Union, are set out here. I believe that together we can and we can acknowledge and we must recognise that the best way to alleviate poverty is certainly to have a job and a job. Let's look at the data you referred to. As I said, in 2008, we had an overall rate of relative poverty of almost 20%, and in 2009, the relative rate of poverty, if my memory is not deceived, was about 15%. So in the early years of the crisis relative poverty decreased significantly. This is particularly because we were able to increase pensions during the crisis. If we go back to, for example, 2004 this year, the aftermath of the crisis in the early 2000s and the poverty figures were much worse than they are today. For Estonia, good and strong economies and the highest possible level of employment have been successful over the past ten years. These have actually been Estonia's goals throughout the ages; they are also included in the competitiveness plan 'Estonia 2020'. We have to keep working for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U72	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U73	Thank you. I have already stressed, in this Question Time and in the past, that I am not talking about relative poverty (in this case, the methodology of the survey has changed), but I am talking about deep poverty, I am talking about people living below the absolute poverty line and living among them in deep poverty. That's one. Secondly, my data is based not on the paper, but on your ministry's replies to the written questions I have asked. These are the figures sent by your ministry. But compare to 2004! Do you really think that now, ten years later, it is appropriate to compare our standard of living with that of living at that time and to say that you can see that it has not even gotten worse? It hurts to hear it. If we compare these figures, we will see that the number of applications for income support has increased more than three times in the last three years. Should we not increase subsidies more or what to do if people fail?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U74	Let's start by asking questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U75	Thank you, good questioner! If you ask whether it is not a shame to compare with 2004, I say that it is not a shame, because the 2004 data on other Member States of the European Union are just as adequate as the data for 2012 or another year. These benchmarks are still valid today. If we look at the data of the then European Union Member States in 2004 and compare them with the data of 2009, as well as Estonian data in 2004 and 2009, we will see that Estonia's situation has improved relatively. You asked me what to do. We have also said in the government programme that when it comes to family benefits, for example, our aim must be to support those who need more help. Similarly, our aim is to increase pensions and review other subsidies so that we can help more those who need more help. This is confirmed by the same relative poverty before and after social transfers. Here, Estonia has undoubtedly been one of the most successful countries. I do not want to say that we are doing well with this, and I want to say that the political measures that the Estonian state has chosen have worked very effectively. Of course, if you look at the number of families receiving income support, you can see that there has been an increase. In times of crisis, it is natural that their families will increase. The state needs to ensure that resources are available. They also exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U76	Thank you, Madam President. The Chancellor of Justice has stressed that a situation in which 26% of children under the age of 18, i.e. more than 63000 children, lived at risk of poverty in 2010, is a matter of national importance that needs to be addressed immediately. A few years ago, the Social Democrats in the Riigikogu launched a debate on child poverty as a matter of national importance. We offered a whole range of measures to alleviate poverty among children. In a few years, the number of children living in deep poverty or at risk of poverty has increased by 20,000. At the same time, you stressed that the coalition agreement...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U77	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U78	How has the government coalition supported more children who really need help?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U79	Thank you. We wrote this coalition program with complete knowledge. We're working on that right now. A good questioner certainly knows that the development plan for children and families has been adopted. The first activities are also planned for this year. The grant is not only financial support, but also services, support for families and similar advice for municipalities. It's a complex service. Yesterday, for example, we looked at the new action plan for the Child Protection Act, and we specified its timetable. We agreed that by the end of this year, the first version of the Child Protection Act will be between the covers. You referred to the Chancellor of Justice. As far as I know, the Chancellor of Justice has called a round table to discuss this issue by the beginning of March (maybe even 8 March). So the job's definitely going on. You asked how to help more people who need more help. When it comes to family benefits in particular, the analysis of family benefits is in the same way. I'm sure you agree, too, that there's no point rushing around here. If we simply increase the allowance for all, it will certainly help, but in any case it would be more reasonable to see more support for families of children at potential risk of poverty. I repeat that this cannot and must not only be a matter for the state, but must also be a matter for local governments, particularly through services, day-care centres, school meals and other possibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U80	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U81	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister! Over 46000 children live in absolute poverty in Estonia, but you say that the situation will not improve until the economy improves. I have a question for you: what have you done, Mr Pevkur, to make the economy better and to have more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U82	Thank you. In the same way, you might retorically question what you have done as a member of the Riigikogu, whether you have prepared some drafts or something like that. I believe that we will not get very far with such rhetorical questions. It is clear that the economy can grow once the economic environment is in order. We, the government and the Riigikogu, are all jointly responsible for the economic environment, in the sense that we must not make stupid or wrong decisions. If we want to increase employment and the economy, then everyone needs to make the right and normal contribution. I can be responsible for what is happening in the social field. In the social field, the last most important decision, in particular in relation to poverty, was certainly to raise the level of subsistence. The following decisions are coming in and out. I mentioned the development plan for children and families and the regional advisory centres. I can continue this list if you want to know more specifically. But I don't think we just have time for this because the trial is starting.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U83	A very brief question, please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U84	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I was forced to ask your claim that this is the case elsewhere. If your child comes to you and complains that your tooth hurts, will you tell him that you have heard that in one family in Viljandi, too, a child has a toothaches, and may the child simply suffer, or will you take him to a doctor? If that is the answer of the parent and the child is not taken to the doctor, the question arises as to whether the parent is in the right place and the right person is responsible for the child. I also have a question about the Government of the Republic of Estonia and its activities. You said that you could not do anything, nor did you point out concrete steps that you would take quickly to reduce poverty among Estonian children. Do you still know your job and opportunities? It has to be said that in the Nordic countries, which we set as an example of family policies and also birth rates, the rates of child poverty are much lower than in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U85	Thank you. You referred to me as saying something. First of all, the things you said I didn't say. Secondly, when it comes to parenting responsibilities, I do do what I think is right. If the baby has a toothache, I will, of course, go to a doctor with the child. I hope you do, too. Statistics: Denmark, Finland, Slovenia, Sweden, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic and Austria are below Estonia's relative poverty indicators. That's it. How much did we get? Seven out of 27. Of course, there are different problems in different countries and they need to be addressed. If you're just playing with a manifesto like that, it's your right. I say that our country and people deserve to have proper service. That's what they work for every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U86	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will conclude on this issue. Question time's over. Many thanks to the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions and many thanks to the members of the government for answering! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U87	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries! The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have a draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act, the Local Government Council Election Act, the Referendum Act, the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the legislator's aim is to ensure effective legal protection and regulated transparency in e-voting, and it is also necessary to ensure uniform principles for all electoral methods. The purpose of this draft is to clarify the organisation of electronic voting in elections. As a major change, the draft provides for the setting up of a separate electoral committee for the organisation of electronic voting, the equalisation of the time of electronic voting and pre-voting in polling departments, the provision of an audit of the e-voting system at the level of the law, and the possibility for the electoral body to check whether the electronic vote given by it has been correctly transmitted to the electronic voting system. The draft also sets out the competence of the Election Commission of the Republic in the event of suspension, termination or non-initiation of electronic voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U89	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U90	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I know that half of you were not in Question Time and that is why you obviously did not hear the last question that we discussed with Mr Pevkur. We dealt with the situation of children in Estonia and child poverty. That is what our questioning is about. I am sorry that I am not speaking very bureaucraticly. I recently received a letter from a man with three small children, two, three and four years old. They live very poor, their food money a day is less than three euros. This guy doesn't work, he doesn't plan on going. Of course, the state of Estonia and the Minister of Social Affairs Pevkur would say that he is guilty of it, you have to work. It's actually very right. But it turned out that the law was dissected by our lawyers and so and so that the Estonian state did not really protect these children. Based on this and also on this debate that has taken place here and on this situation, which is in fact unacceptable in a European country, we have some questions for Mr Pevkur. In fact, how far has the work on the Child Protection Act come and, in this light, is it viewed in the light of child protection, I mean also the family law? I repeat: children are not protected in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U91	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U92	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 12 members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to Minister Michal. The subject of questioning is an unreasonablely long trial. This is based on a specific statement. This statement has been submitted to the European Court of Human Rights and is also attached to an inquiry. Anyone who wishes to see it can think about the circumstances that are discussed there. At the same time, I must add that I have a strong desire that we open up a new topic for negotiations with this question. I am deeply convinced that for a long time, both the police and the prosecutor's office have been used as an accomplice to some dirty political games. 770 persons who have been arrested for a longer period of time in recent years and who have been released since no doubt could be proved are a figurative example of what is happening to us now. People are often forced to give evidence against themselves or to give evidence to third parties. I propose that the Riigikogu examine this issue on the basis of specific cases, because the pace with which we move towards totalitarianism in democracy is simply staggering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U93	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic shall submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu approving the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions. The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U95	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and two inquiries. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft law on the amendment of the Traffic Act, initiated on 20 February, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs; in the Group of the Estonian Central Party. a draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure, initiated on 20 February, whose commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs; the Estonian Central Party Group. a Draft Act amending § 48 of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 21 February, of which the commission is the Committee on Finance. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. Good fellows! We're gonna do a presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Today's agenda contains a clarification. In the debate on the fifth item, the draft law amending the law on collective agreement initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs at second reading, the initiators' report will be presented by Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U96	The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending § 8 of the International Military Cooperation Act initiated by the National Defence Commission. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 141 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft Act 141 amending § 8 of the International Military Cooperation Act, initiated by the National Defence Committee, has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U97	We will move to the second item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the amendment of the Law on Alcohol. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no requests, we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put a bill of 150 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 61 members of the Riigikogu, 18 against, no abstentions. The draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on the amendment of the Law on alcohol initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed. Good fellows! I shall exercise our right under the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure and take a ten-minute break so that the governing board of the Riigikogu can meet. I'm declaring recess. The sitting will be resumed at 2.24 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U98	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Break's over, and we're gonna move on to the hearing. I have the opportunity to inform you of the decisions of the Riigikogu Board. The Board of the Riigikogu took the Government of the Republic to the proceedings. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions' submitted on 22 February and appointed it as the lead committee of the Monetary Commission. The second decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu reads as follows. According to § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, an additional session of the Riigikogu will be convened in the Chamber of Toompea Castle. 23 February, beginning at 4 p.m. of the Government of the Republic. a On 22 February, the Riigikogu's decision to approve the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions was submitted for the discussion at first reading and the second additional session of the Riigikogu in the Chamber of Toompea Castle. a On 23 February, two hours after the end of the first additional session of the Government of the Republic. a for the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions' submitted on 22 February, should the first reading of the draft decision be completed at the additional session beginning at 16.00. In connection with the second decision, there was a heated discussion on the Board of the Riigikogu and one member of the board disagreed. According to § 16 (4) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, this must be decided in plenary. I shall put it to the vote, namely, the decision of the Riigikogu Board to convene additional sittings of the Riigikogu. a February 23rd. Procedural questions. Please raise your hand and then they'll give you a microphone! Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Paragraph 49 (3) already referred to you also states: 'The President of the Riigikogu shall notify the members of the Riigikogu of the call at least three days before the additional session takes place through the media. In the case of weight reasons, the period of notice may be shorter. ' Would you please present the Bureau's views on the existence of weighty decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U100	Thank you. This decision is within the competence of the Riigikogu Board; this is the place of consideration. The same paragraph of § 49 (3) that you read out is mentioned for three days, but it also states that for compelling reasons the hearing may take place earlier. The majority of the Riigikogu Board found that there are compelling reasons for this issue and that the hearing will take place earlier, not in three days' time. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Speaking of compelling reasons, are we based on the fact that these reasons are compelling for Estonia or for another country, such as Greece?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U102	Thank you. I believe that we should certainly be guided on this issue by what are important reasons for our country, as well as what are important reasons for the European Union's decision-making processes. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U103	Thank you, Mr President. I realized that two board members found there were compelling reasons. How can we find out from these two board members what these compelling reasons were?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U104	Thank you. At the moment, in particular, by the mouth of the President of the sitting. Another way is to ask them directly, either under four or six eyes. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U105	Before the vote, I ask for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U106	Got it. Good fellows, I'm announcing a break. The sitting will be resumed at 2.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U107	Good fellows! The break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended and we will begin the preparation of the vote. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U108	Thank you, Mr President. As far as I understand, we are currently voting on the time for the second sitting. Either way, we're gonna take care of this question, aren't we? Does the Committee on Monetary Affairs have nothing to say about this? However, normally, the Commission has set a time limit for the sitting to take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U109	Thank you. There is certainly something to be said by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which is the commission responsible for the draft. That is why, at the moment, the vote is that there are two hours between the two additional sittings in order to be able to table amendments and to hold a Commission sitting. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U110	I'm trying to be more specific. Maybe I'm a little simple, but I'll remind you of our practice. The question comes to the Commission, the Commission discusses it and agrees on the date on which the draft will go to first reading. Decisions on second reading shall not be voted until the first reading has been completed. At the moment, it seems that without any discussion in the Commission, we are putting two sittings in place at the same time. I don't really understand that logic. Or does the entire Riigikogu work wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U111	Thank you for this question. Such a procedure, as you mentioned in your question, will certainly apply when ordinary sittings are held. At the moment, we are discussing the convening or non-convocation of additional sittings. The agenda is set here by the Riigikogu Board. I shall put the following question to the vote: who is in favour of holding an additional session of the Riigikogu in the Chamber of Toompea Castle. 23 February, beginning at 4 p.m. of the Government of the Republic. a On 22 February, the Riigikogu's decision to approve the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions was submitted for the discussion at first reading and the second additional session of the Riigikogu in the Chamber of Toompea Castle. a On 23 February, two hours after the end of the first additional session of the Government of the Republic. a For the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions' submitted on 22 February, should the first reading of the draft decision be closed at the additional session starting at 16 o'clock? Please take a stand and vote. There were 46 members of the Riigikogu and 42 against. The proposal was supported. Good fellows! According to § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Act, the Chairman of the Riigikogu convenes an additional session of the Riigikogu in the Chamber of Toompea Castle. 1 p.m. on 23 February 2004 There is one item on the agenda of the Government of the Republic. a Discussion of the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions." He will also convene the second additional sitting of the Riigikogu in the Chamber of Toompea Castle. a On 23 February, two hours after the end of the first additional session of the Government of the Republic. a for the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on specific economic policy conditions' submitted on 22 February, should the first reading of the draft decision be completed at the additional session beginning at 16.00. Good fellows, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U112	Let's move on to the Wednesday, 22 February agenda. We have come to the third item, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of Mr Andrus Saare, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U113	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at 146 three meetings: 7th, 14th and 20th February. a. No amendments were received by the deadline. The Committee on Finance considered it necessary to submit four proposals for the draft. The Commission's amendments complement the VAT Act and the Liquid Fuel Act, due to the following circumstances: The need for change is due to the increased number of tax frauds in the field of fuels. Tax fraud is carried out by fuel already released for consumption, which has been re-allocated to the excise warehouse, and by "self-use" fuel leaving the excise warehouse. During the verification procedure, it has been found that multiple purchases are made for consumption within the excise warehouse, including fuel released from the customs warehouse for free circulation and use, and that the exporter of the fuel from the excise warehouse generally fails to pay VAT to the State. It has also been found that fuel obtained for own use is disposed of by different means to the final consumer, i.e. also to filling stations. In accordance with the requirements of § 192 (1) of the current Liquid Fuel Act, between 14 June 2011 and 27 January 2012, excise warehouses sent the Tax and Customs Board a notification of the issue of fuel for own consumption for a total of 13734 tonnes of fuel, of which 13044 tonnes of diesel, 674 tonnes of petrol and 16 tonnes of specially labelled diesel. According to the Tax and Customs Board, about 99.7% of these fuel quantities are not available for own use. Only 0,3% of the fuel has been delivered to persons (known to be three persons) who actually use the fuel for their own use. The VAT losses calculated on the total quantity of fuel covered above amount to approximately EUR 3.56 million for this period. Since intra-tax transactions have also been taxed at a rate of 0% VAT, there may be a situation where fuel already released for consumption may subsequently be placed in a tax warehouse for storage and, for the purposes of non-payment of taxes, transactions in an excise warehouse will start to carry out similar transactions in a tax warehouse. It is therefore necessary to introduce a guarantee of EUR 1 million for the issue of fuel from a tax warehouse. The VAT rate of 0% can only be used if the goods are temporarily exempt from excise duty. In addition to the above, the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposes that the amendment be supplemented by paragraph 71 of the VAT Act. The purpose of the amendment is to regulate precisely the cases in which the lessor can deduct input VAT on goods and services received for the repair and maintenance of the leasing item. On the subject, the Commission has received letters with different views from both the Estonian Insurance Association and the Estonian Association of Liising Associations. Since the beginning of last year, the subject has been discussed several times and has been met with interested parties. As a result of the discussions, the Commission reached the wording of the amendments as stated in the draft. The main discussion in the Commission was on the question of whose cost is the cost of repairing and maintenance of the lease. As a general rule, it is not a lessor's cost which results in no right to deduct input tax. The right to deduct input VAT shall be retained where, in accordance with the contract, the lessor has a repair and maintenance obligation and that service is used for taxable turnover, or where, in the interests of the maintenance of his assets, the lessor himself purchased the repair and maintenance service and invoiced it to the lessee. Examples include cases where the lessee fails to comply with its obligations. Under Article 29 (1) of the VAT Act and Article 168 of the VAT Directive, a taxable person may deduct input tax if he uses the goods or services received for his taxable turnover. In monetary terms, this point in the draft means that the continuing situation on this VAT issue will cause the country losses of around EUR 3,8 million per year. This is the amount that the State pays unfairly to some of the leasing companies. At its meeting on 20 February, the Monetary Commission also addressed earlier requests received by the Commission from the Association of Estonian Hotels and Restaurants and the Estonian Taxpayers' Association. There were proposals to reduce the VAT rate for catering services to 9%, to delete points 1 and 2 of Section 37 (9) of the VAT Act and to amend paragraph 10 (5) of the VAT Act. The Commission did not support these proposals. As a result of the consultation that took place in the course of the procedure, the Commission considered it appropriate to clarify the taxation of investment gold in the explanatory memorandum. According to the tax authority, special arrangements are necessary to avoid tax fraud in the taxation of gold material, including semi-finished products and investment gold. The aim is to introduce a reverse charge on gold turnover, which will apply from 2011 to metal waste and certain immovable property. According to the bill, the reverse charge is to be made of gold with a pure gold content of at least 325 thousandths of weight. The investment gold is exempt, but when the taxable person has notified the tax authorities of the VAT added to the taxable value of the investment gold, the reverse charge is also applied for its taxation. When notifying the tax authority, an investment gold transferred to another taxable person by a taxable person who, in the course of his business, carries out a turnover of gold used as an industrial raw material or by a taxable person producing investment gold may be taxed. Otherwise, investment gold is not taxable. The Commission proposes to replace the date of entry into force of § 3 (2), which was 1 March 2012, with 1 April 2012, and also proposes to supplement this paragraph with the provisions of the amendments introduced at second reading. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: Put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 22 February, i.e. today. The proposal is to interrupt the second reading, due to the addition of the draft to the new regulations of the VAT Act and the Liquid Fuel Act, and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 p.m. on 27 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U114	Good waitress! You have questions. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U115	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Many Estonians are turning to investment gold in connection with the alarming times in the financial markets. It is certainly not clear to everyone this principle of reverse charge that you have talked about. For the sake of the verbatim report, would you explain that people will be able to read after the Riigikogu verbatim and understand a little more exactly what this principle of reverse charge means and how people should understand what this entails for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U116	This concerns those who make these transactions among themselves. This does not concern the ordinary citizen who is going to make an investment. This is for semi-finished products and products with at least 325 thousandths of gold, which I have pointed out here. I do not think that investing in a common citizen will entail any additional costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U117	Imre Sooäär, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U118	I understand that. I didn't ask who it was. I just asked you to explain the principle of reverse charge. What's the reverse charge, exactly how does it work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U119	This is because whoever buys must also declare VAT. At the moment, there is fraud in the market, VAT is simply not declared and, as a tax, we cannot get the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U120	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be interrupted. I will set the deadline for the submission of 146 amendments at 6 p.m. on 27 February. The second reading is adjourned and the third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U121	Let us move to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the law amending other laws. I ask for a presentation of Inara Luigas, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U122	Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws after the first reading was completed at its meeting on 14 February. Mr Kertu Fedotov, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance and Advisor to the Insurance Policy Department, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. The main objectives of the draft are to lay the foundations for the cross-border management of investment funds, i.e. UCITS, which meet uniform standards in the European Union, to enable the cross-border merger of UCITS and the creation of new types of fund structures, to lay the foundations for the creation of employer pension funds and to clarify the rules for the organisation of cooperation between the Financial Supervision Authority, the European Financial Supervisory Authorities and the financial supervisory authorities of the Member States. From the debate in the committee, no amendments to the draft were received from the political groups or members of the Riigikogu. The Commission decided to table four amendments, which are also included in the list of amendments. There was a debate on the following issues: First, the inclusion of a depositary in the Investment Funds Act on the list of persons and bodies notified by the internal control when information on the management company becomes available indicating an offence or damage to the interests of unit-holders. Secondly, the Financial Supervision Authority Act provides for the authorisation of the Minister of Finance, which fixes the requirements for the reports of the insurance broker and foreign insurance broker's branch in Estonia. The issues related to updating the technical note of the Income Tax Act and amending the deadline for the entry into force of the amendments to the Income Tax Act were further addressed. The Commission took the following decisions: to send the draft to second reading on 22 January, to propose the end of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to third reading in March of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U123	Thank you. You have at least one question. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U124	Thank you very much. Can you explain, please, why some of the points in section 6 of this Act, paragraphs 1 to 4 and also 7, will only enter into force from 1 January next year, while the rest of the text will already be published in the Official Journal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U125	Thank you for your question. I cannot explain in particular why these points will enter into force in this way, but the deadline for the entry into force of all amendments to the law and amendments to the law was specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U126	No further questions. Good waitress, thank you! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the second reading of draft 152 should be completed. The second reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U127	We will move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on collective agreements initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Valdo Randpere, member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U128	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft law amending the law on collective agreement proposed by us and the amendments received in two sessions. We also had a meeting with trade union representatives. The first meeting of the Legal Affairs Committee where these amendments were dealt with took place on 13 February and after that the members of the Legal Affairs Committee were represented by Riigikogu member Eiki Nestor, Head of Working Life Policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs Seili Suder, Chief Specialist of the Department of Working Life Development Marilis Proos, Chairman of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation's Confederation Harri Taliga and Legal Secretary Tiia E.Tammeleht, Chairman of the Management Board of the Estonian Transport and Road Workers Trade Union Peep Peterson, Chairman of the Management Board of TALO Ago Tuuling and Legal Adviser of Haldi Ojamaaa and Lawyer of the Estonian Employers' Confederation Marek Sepp. The members of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestor, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Confederation of Trade Unions had submitted proposals on the draft Act amending the Collective Agreement Act by the deadline for amendments. Since the amendments proposed by the Social Democratic Group and the Confederation of Trade Unions were identical, we did not deal with them separately. Eiki Nestor's amendments were slightly different from those of the Social Democratic Group. In addition to these proposals, we received opinions from the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and from the central organisations of employers and trade unions on the draft law that we have discussed here once. I am not going to read these amendments one by one, every paragraph and line here. In short, the position of both the Socialist Group, Eiki Nestor and the trade union could be summarised as follows. In principle, they accept the need for change and realise that it is not right that the Treaty will remain in force forever or that its conditions should be met forever, as is the case under the current law. It should be changed, the agreement can be terminated, it should be cancelled. But the approaches were different. The amendments were essentially aimed at making the process as long as possible. At times, it was also a little difficult to understand exactly what they wanted. One observation, though. Eiki Nestor's amendments, for example, ran through the idea that the contract could be cancelled by six months' notice. When looking at all the amendments tabled, these were the decisions. Eiki Nestor's first proposal was decided not to be taken into account by the lead committee. Two voted in favour, five against, one abstention. Eiki Nestor had a second proposal, and the Commission failed to take this into account, as well, three were in favour, five were against, no abstentions. The amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group were also disregarded. They basically offered the construction that the contract could become permanent. This means that if the term of the contract had expired, it would be extended by the initial period, and if it had been extended for the second time and still had not concluded a new contract, then it would actually become permanent. We found it too long, and basically, it's kind of like perpetuating the problem that is now. We still want to get rid of it, so that the terms of the agreement never lapse. The Committee on Legal Affairs itself made two amendments at this first session. In the original version, if the contract is not recommended to continue, it should be notified two months before the contract expires. We extended this period by one month, said that this should be done three months before the deadline for the contract. We also postponed the entry into force of the law, postponed it to 1 May 2012. At first, it was planned to enter into force in March. These proposals were supported by five members of the Commission, two were opposed and one was impartial. The committee decided unanimously to propose that the draft law be included in the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today and that the second reading be stopped. There were five members of the Commission in favour, two against and one abstention. We also met on the Committee on Legal Affairs for the second time, on 20 February. We discussed the matter and decided to make another amendment to the draft law. One of Eiki Nestor's ideas was that the deadline for cancellation after the contract became permanent could be six months. We considered that this would be such an appropriate compromise, also thinking that the main argument put forward by the trade unions as to why the deadline for the termination of the agreement should be longer than three months was that today many employment contracts do not contain the essential working conditions that they should actually include. The parties are used to the fact that the collective agreement never ends, and some things are simply written in the collective agreement. Can you get them back in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U129	Good fellows, I beg you to keep our voice down in the hall! Let's honor the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U130	Thank you. In order for the labour market parties to be able to put their contracts in order so that the things that must be included in an individual contract of employment are indeed introduced there, we decided to make the deadline for cancellation six months. So given that the draft law came to the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs for the first time in December last year and the first withdrawal of the collective agreement based on this amendment could theoretically take place in December of this year, it is one year. That should be enough time. At the same committee meeting, the Socialist Neeme Great's proposal that this deadline be nine months instead of six months was also discussed. There were 4 Commission members in favour of this proposal, 5 against and 0 abstentions. The six-month deadline for cancellation received consensus support, with 9 members of the Committee on Legal Affairs in favour. And so I am here today with this bill, for which the Commission is proposing to complete the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U131	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U132	Thank you. Honourable performer! You said that on one occasion this issue was discussed at an enlarged session, where representatives of the Confederation of Trade Unions, TALO and a number of other associations were present. Did you consider, and if not, why didn't you consider that there could have been a Social Affairs Committee there? Traditionally, this topic, the topic of collective agreement, has been a matter of the Social Committee for years. Why didn't you invite us there?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U133	For some reason, I have a feeling that the Committee on Social Affairs was invited because some of the members of the Social Affairs Committee were present. Why you didn't get there or why you weren't invited, I can't answer that. But the Social Affairs Committee was fully represented.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U134	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! On 7 February, if memory does not deceive me, the Committee on Social Affairs sent its position on this draft to the Committee on Legal Affairs. It states in particular: 'The Social Committee considered that a real analysis of the impact of the draft act 153 should be carried out in the course of the proceedings. " Has it been done, and if it has been done, where can I get acquainted with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U136	Thank you. The Committee on Social Affairs did indeed give us such an opinion, and we tried to do an analysis of its real effects in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I was one of the guys who made it. I took out all the existing collective agreements that are registered, and we looked at their statistics. I have to say that it is not very easy to do this, in principle it is quite impossible, because there is no real analysis of the content of the agreement. Most of the contracts are likely to be confidential. I can draw any conclusions on the basis of their temporal validity and the expiry of the term of the agreement and its non-receipt. In principle, it could be said that 867 collective agreements have now been registered in Estonia and only 156 of them have not reached the deadline. So over 700 contracts, 710 contracts are simply in a legal vacuum. It is precisely in front of this problem, which the Chancellor of Justice once referred to in his letter to the Ministry of Social Affairs, saying that we are dealing with a total contradiction with the Constitution, because the Treaty does not apply, but the terms of the Treaty must be met. Actually, we don't know what half of it thinks at all. Some of these agreements have been in force since 1998. The Ministry of Social Affairs itself has believed that some of the parties to the agreement have already ceased to exist. It is very, very difficult to draw any very scientific conclusion here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U137	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U138	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The purpose of this draft is to bring the collective agreement law into line with the Constitution. The explanatory memorandum states that the amendments tabled by my colleague Eiki Nestor, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Confederation of Trade Unions were not in line with the objective of the draft. Would you please explain the contradiction between these amendments and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U139	Actually, it's very easy to explain. With this amendment, we also want to make it possible to end and cancel collective agreements. The idea of these amendments was, in our opinion, too much to delay this process. We now met half or about a quarter of the road and offered to have a reasonable time of six months. However, in some of the amendments, the conditions were still valid for a year, then for another year and then for another three years. That would mean five years. Think about the situation of the Estonian economy in 2007 and what the situation is now. If you find a great deal of similarity there, the same contractual terms could continue to apply. If not, you will understand why we found the amendments to be contrary to the objective of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U140	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Trade unions, including TALO, have mentioned that this issue has been dealt with very widely in the past. The TALO has written its position in a document that a number of discussions have taken place with the participation of the social partners in the Ministry of Social Affairs and a calendar plan has been agreed and drawn up to prepare a comprehensive package for the modernisation of collective labour relations. What was the need for why this particular point of the collective agreement law was torn out of the whole package prepared by the social partners together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and where was the calendar plan? What was the urgent need, and has there been negotiations with the Ministry of Social Affairs to draw up a new calendar plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U142	Good questioner, you actually know the answer yourself, because you were on the committee. One of the parties refers to the existence of a calendar plan and the other party says that, well, maybe somewhere in 2013. It wasn't a very stoned plan. The second thing is that a specific point no longer talks about modernising the law on collective agreements. This is a contradiction with the constitution that we want to eliminate before we start modernising the rest of the collective agreement. This point has been in force since 1993, so he has been able to live long enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U143	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There are very interesting arguments and reasonings. If a fixed-term collective agreement has ever been concluded and this deadline has passed a year or years ago, how can anyone have a legitimate expectation that the agreement will ever be valid and will remain in force forever? In the course of the Commission's debate, did it come to what such an expectation, which I cannot call justified, is based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U145	Thank you. That's a good question. This was actually an incentive for the Chancellor of Justice's initial initiative when he sent a letter to the Ministry of Social Affairs a year and a half ago. I don't think anyone's claiming to have such a legitimate expectation right now. Trade unions also acknowledge that this point in the collective agreement law is abnormal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U146	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U147	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'd like to come back to the impact analysis. I guess I got it right that you were the only one who tried to do this kind of analysis. You couldn't handle it because it's a very difficult task. It is no wonder, because as a member of the Riigikogu, in addition, during the weeks of the sittings, you did not have so much time to do so. Why has the Commission not involved, for example, specialists from the Ministry of Social Affairs or representatives of employees, in other words, people who know how to make an impact analysis, I ask very much for an apology, perhaps better than you to analyse these effects, because they are in the role of the contractor?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U148	Good questioner, I am, of course, pleased that you were concerned that I did not have time to deal with this during my working hours. That's what I took the weekend for. But I wasn't the only one dealing with this by the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and our chairman Marko Pomerants. We received the basic material from the Ministry of Social Affairs, who had taken a preliminary conclusion and a preliminary conclusion. They also gave us statistical material. I'm saying the depth of the problem is that we can't go into every contract and start to find out exactly what's in it. It is also likely to be partly due to the confidential nature of the contract between the parties. So I guess we did our best. I didn't do it alone, and I don't think I'm completely incompetent either. Like I said, I sacrificed it on Saturday and Sunday.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U149	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U150	Thank you. I understand that one of the main concerns that this draft should resolve is the alleged lack of constitutionality of the collective agreement law. I understand that one of the reasons why the amendments tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party were not acceptable was that, when added together, five years were received by the deadline. My question is: is nine months more compatible with the Constitution than five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U151	Thank you. I'm sure nine months would be more consistent, but there's a question of proportion if you want to point out why we didn't choose the nine months Neeme the Great offered, but we chose six months. Firstly, the proposals of the Social Democrats were not only about this deadline, there was the introduction of a national conciliator and there were other options. We wanted to make it a little easier. Eiki Nestor, for his part, had made proposals that were somewhat innovative in legal terms. He himself reasoned that he felt that the law on collective agreements should be written in such a simple language that everyone could understand it. We chose between these options. We also thought that since the collective agreement is legally concluded today for one year, there must also be some proportion between its withdrawal, its validity and the period of validity of these terms. It cannot be the case that there is a one-year contract and then there is two more years. We found six months to be the right proportion.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U152	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U153	Thanks! My question is about the explanatory statement, which is gratefully included in the draft. This is a bit odd, the Commission's co-rapporteur should comment on this. The reason why neither the Socialists, the Confederation of Trade Unions nor Eiki Nestor's proposal were taken into account is that the draft aims to establish the rules of procedure. But, as far as we know, we have just proposed the rules of procedure, because the majority of the Riigikogu decided so. I ask you, are these procedural rules that we have proposed against the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U154	Thank you. That's a good question, Eiki. The rules of procedure you proposed tended to reinforce this constitutional situation at times.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U155	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U156	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Tell me, please, do you think that, in the case of these amendments and drafts, the economic interests of the employer or the social interests of the workers remain the primary priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U157	Thank you. That's an interesting question. purely statisticalally, I dare say that with this change we will protect the interests of both parties. You can never be sure which side suffers more from the terms of the agreement than the agreement is old, the economic conditions have changed, and the other side refuses to cancel the agreement. You can never be sure whether it's an employer or an employee. Nor has there been any feedback that some collectives have expressed their views in any way. I cannot think of anything other than that it could be statistically divided fairly equally, that the change would protect the interests of both employers and employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U158	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U159	Thank you. Dear waitress, I understand that your main argument for amending this law is a letter from the Chancellor of Justice to the Ministry of Social Affairs. In general, if the Chancellor of Justice finds that a law is contrary to the Constitution, he will come here with an official proposal which the Riigikogu will either approve or reject, and accordingly the amendment will be dealt with. If the Chancellor of Justice had not made it to the Riigikogu yet, or had he thought that he should not come to the Riigikogu, then perhaps he could have had the Chancellor of Justice do his job, analyse the situation and also propose specific proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U160	Thank you. It would have been an entirely conceivable scenario. In this case, however, the Committee on Legal Affairs found that since the Chancellor of Justice has referred to such a contradiction with the Constitution, we have the right and obligation to initiate a draft law to change the situation, and that is what we did.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U161	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As you know, your party-led government has blown up tripartite negotiations. Do you think that the adoption of the bill that you have proposed and the fight with the trade unions once again would make tripartite negotiations possible again, or rather make them even more impossible?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U163	A very interesting question, but unfortunately the Commission did not discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U164	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U165	My second question is on the compatibility of the Commission's text for second reading with the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. In particular, the Chancellor of Justice wants a new regulation, which whoever will then develop and adopt it, as well as the clarity and stability of employment relations. On what basis can it be argued that this text, which we are discussing here, would somehow give a reference to it? The introduction, for example, of the mere introduction of provisions concerning mandatory clauses of the employment contract resulting from the Employment Contracts Act, which apply to the individual, would have ensured that stability and clarity in the individual contract. There's no reference here. Does this bill correspond to the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U166	The Chancellor of Justice also sent his opinion after the draft had already existed, and in that opinion he fully supported the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U167	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U168	I have a more general question. Does the Committee on Legal Affairs plan to react to all the attentions of the Chancellor of Justice in the future by preparing the draft quickly and bringing it to the Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U169	Personally, as a relatively new member of the Riigikogu, I am sure that I also consider it my concern that we remove the constitutional contradictions from the laws. So where I see the mistake, I'm gonna come and say it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U170	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Eiki Nestori, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U171	Mr President, Mr Riigikogu, thank you very much. I'm a bad member of the Riigikogu, I'm asking for extra time too!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U172	Good co-worker, three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U173	First of all, a little bit of first reading, too. The Chancellor of Justice has been in charge of correspondence on this matter since 2010 when he has asked the Ministry of Social Affairs to assess one aspect or another in relation to this section. As a result of the correspondence, the Chancellor of Justice has not reached such a conclusion in order to propose to the Riigikogu that the relevant section of the collective agreement act be brought into conformity with the Constitution. Why hasn't he done that? There is no simple reason that the Chancellor of Justice is a wise man and knows that if he proposes to us, but the Riigikogu does not accept this proposal and does not amend the law, he must turn to the Supreme Court, and he cannot be sure that he will win the case at the Supreme Court. That is why he has not put forward such a proposal. So whoever is speaking on this subject is correct to indicate that the Chancellor of Justice has written letters. For what reasons, it's up to him, I'm not going to investigate who asked him to write those letters either. But it is certainly not possible to talk about the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, which would have reached the Riigikogu. In addition, the authors of the bill should read this letter carefully. Very many of the provisions that have been proposed by the authors of the amendments, whether these amendments have been tabled by our group with trade unions or by Nestor alone, no matter what, are borne by this spirit. In fact, there is nothing new about this ex-post validity; the concept of ex-post validity is also known in other countries. He only has one reason. When the term of the collective agreement expires, the question arises which remains valid. One thing is clear: there is no peace of work. Negotiations are under way for a new agreement, but what will continue to apply? And now the difference is whether the terms of the former treaty will continue to be fulfilled and the risk of strike will be lower or whether it is always known that you can still pour oil into the fire and say that there is now an empty earth and nothing is. In 1993, when the Riigikogu passed this law, it was based on this logic. The Chancellor of Justice has a good employee who writes these letters, his name is Shipilov. He must not be confused with the Chancellor of Justice in the Committee on Legal Affairs either. So the last letter of formal notice was not from the Chancellor of Justice, but from his advisor, we are still precise. This is not Germany's example, here is another logic to avoid the risk of a strike. And also in this long statement, which the Chancellor of Justice wrote two years ago, the positive moments of this provision have been highlighted. These are the clarity and stability of the legal relationship that applies to employment relationships when the term of one contract is over. I honestly admit that this 1993 law is largely written by me. In this sense, it makes sense to make one complex legislative amendment, to agree it with the social partners who are actually on the labour market. I wouldn't mind. But the provision in its current form is certainly not against the Constitution. The Riigikogu plenary decided to amend the law. All right, I can tell you a secret about why the unions are taking it peacefully. There's only one reason they're talking about it. This is what we do not currently have in working life practice in Estonia, and it can be estimated whether or not this threat exists, but there are cases in the world where "employers" collide a fictitious trade union and conclude collective agreements. Indeed, the issue of their eternal duration is also a problem for trade unions. So if you change it, all right, let's change it. In fact, the proposals made by the Social Democratic Party Group are very friendly to the authors of the draft. Just as complex a construction as it is here is that when the deadline is over, the contract becomes permanent and can be cancelled. Now there's also the way this thing turns into a permanent one. But the most important of this amendment is the reference to § 11 of the Employment Contracts Act, which sets out the points that are required to be agreed in the employment contract, so that there is no doubt about an individual contract that he or she will continue to receive the same salary, the same leave and everything else. He must not be deprived of the right to withdraw from the collective agreement. People's ambassador Nestor is a slightly simpler person and, therefore, for me, this 'negotiable contract', such a play of words, this construction is not very close to the heart. Therefore, the proposal is also very simple and logical and will create a procedure in accordance with the Constitution for how to deal with these agreements. The contract shall remain in force until the time limit expires, if the parties agree, under these conditions and in accordance with the procedure thereafter. A contract in which the parties have agreed on terms and procedures in force after the term of the contract may also be terminated. There are procedures to do this and there is also a reference to the fact that the terms of a collective agreement concluded, which fall within the mandatory conditions for notification laid down in § 5 (1) of the Employment Contracts Act, apply to employment contracts until they are amended in agreement with the parties in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Employment Contracts Act. A clear and logical text, perhaps somewhat more easily written than the group's proposal. The political group's proposal was indeed based on the complex design proposed by the Commission. So I strongly advise the Riigikogu to take the decision that this bill will be dealt with further. This solution, which is currently being proposed, leaves the situation very doubtful in terms of legal clarity, i.e. more problems than solutions may arise in the light of professional practice. Our group therefore proposes that the reading of the draft be suspended.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U174	I would like the speech chair of the Riigikogu Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U175	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, please. I think this bill makes sense, and that's what you have to live up to. When Mrs Tuus-Song asked what is now going to be or what are the effects, one positive effect is obvious: trade unions, workers above all, must now start looking at what their formal relations with employers have in the meantime become. I dare say that there is currently no source from which a representative of a country can obtain adequate information on this. For this simple reason, the obligation under which all collective agreements should be registered has not been fulfilled and the interest is also not known for those agreements that have exceeded their deadline. I understand that there have also been objective reasons, such as the intermediate recession, etc., that it has not been possible to make progress in improving working conditions. But as for the part that Eiki Nestor was talking about, above all, the individual employment contract versus the collective employment agreement, I would argue that here, too, both social partners have become sloppy. Why? Paragraph 5 (1) of the Employment Contracts Act lists all the elements that should be included in the individual contract of employment as mandatory components. And one of them, the last one, is whether or not a collective agreement applies to a particular employee. It's not like one or the other. Maybe I want to agree with Eiki Nestor and say I think that's the way it is. If individual contracts are not recommended and important parts of them are included in the collective agreement law, then they must also be complied with in cases where the collective agreement is no longer in force. This is self-evident and is also referred to by the Chancellor of Justice through his representative. My call is very simple for everyone: we must enter into negotiations, but first we must be interested in the state and content of the agreement in a particular collective, how old it is, how thick this dust layer is. With the help of the European Union Social Fund, the book 'Practical Manual of Collective Negotiations' has been issued. Eiki Nestor has written a preface to it, and here I quote: "Talking requires two very important sizes: knowledge and ability to reach common understandings. " I want knowledge, skill, or at least knowledge! And I think that in winter, probably the year number may be then 2013, we should look at the real situation with collective agreements, what these changes were. I'd like to hope they're substantive. I call for collective agreements to be concluded, for my working relationships to be meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U176	Thank you. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U177	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We all know very well that four days ago, 2000 Estonian people in the Tallinn Kanut Garden expressed their minds, who are not satisfied with the proposed amendment to the collective agreement law. This crowd, which has not been supported or even visited by any coalition politician, is only the tip of the iceberg. On the basis of a collective agreement, one in four employees work in our country. Despite the fact that this bill has been burning passion for a long time both here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and in the media, we have not received any signal from the legislators that the amendment of the collective agreement law in this form is suitable for employees. In fact, this bill has had a strong intrigue on it from the beginning. Firstly, it is initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs, where, with all my respect, it is customary to adopt a slightly different approach than what is needed to solve social problems. At the same time, it is known that labour market issues are the competence of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. This makes sense because such a law needs to focus, among other things, on the social consequences and how they are addressed, as well as on the analysis of impacts. Perhaps from a point of view that the Committee on Legal Affairs has succeeded in avoiding once again. Of course, there may also be dura lex, sed lex, but the desire to comply with the law or even the desire to bring it into conformity with the Constitution cannot in any way favour the interests of a person, all the more so as these people are the taxpayers of the Estonian state and the employers of the Riigikogu. Second. The amendment of the law is based on the analysis of the Chancellor of Justice, where reference is made to the contradictions of the current law with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. That's right, but only partially, it's half-sister. On the one hand, we know that not every suggestion made by the Chancellor of Justice gets legislative power so quickly. Some of Mr. Teder's wishes wait years for an hour. On the other hand, the Chancellor's analysis is much wider than that which the authors of the draft law have pushed into the context of the explanatory memorandum. The Chancellor's desire was not merely to change the law mechanically. It should be amended so that the parties to the contract of employment, and especially the contractors, do not suffer. In his summer letter, the chancellor also listed ways to solve problems and gave examples of other countries where issues of collective employment contracts are subject to much more humane regulation. None of these possible recommendations have been taken into account by the authors of the draft law. Three. Despite the fact that Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, wanted to know the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs on this matter, I still had the impression, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, that in fact, no one really cared. In order to formulate our opinion, we were literally given lessons in the Commission. And when I look at the explanatory memorandum to the bill and at the bill itself, I wonder if anyone ever read that letter. I'll explain. The letter, which we sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs on 7 February, stated, among other things: 'The Social Committee considered that a real analysis of the impact of the draft bill and the social partners should be involved in the proceedings of the draft act 153 SE. The consequences of the termination of the collective agreement should also be specified for the parties to the individual employment relationship. The Social Affairs Committee supported the views expressed by the Ministry of Social Affairs on this draft. ' As we know, the analysis of the effects of the draft has not been carried out, so has Mr Randpere today. It's basically not. The involvement of the social partners is more of a decorative nature, because, in fact, the opinion of the employees was simply not heard, although it seemed to be asked, and this is supported by these numerous letters. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U178	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U179	It is noteworthy that concerns about individual employment relationships that workers' working conditions may deteriorate significantly after the amendment of the collective agreement law, is also expressed in their assessment of the draft law by the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, as the lead committee is the Committee on Legal Affairs, all this social lyricism is becoming a non-mandatory one and the draft can be discussed in a black and white legal context, which we are all witnessing here today. And finally. The compromise, according to which the deadline for notification of termination was extended from three months to six months and announced loudly by the authors of the draft law after Saturday's trade union manifestation, is not, in fact, a compromise of any kind. The contractors are of the opinion that these are the least important possible suggestions for improvement. It does not change the substance of the draft law, nor does it prevent negative effects of the law. To conclude, this draft is a wish to push through a legislative amendment that is obviously detrimental to the interests of the employees, and the substantive debate on the draft has never really taken place. The initiators of the draft act asked for all kinds of opinions, with nine out of ten opinions being negative, collected a single file, and that was the end of the so-called dialogue. The Centre Party Group remains of the opinion that a legislative amendment concerning the future of every fourth contractor cannot be pushed through without having a substantive dialogue. On the basis of the above, we propose to interrupt the second reading of draft 153. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U180	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Neeme Suur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U181	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that a permanent contract is not good for employment relations, as the Chancellor of Justice also pointed out in his letter of formal notice to the Minister of Social Affairs, is likely to be equally understandable to all social partners. The only reason why it was not possible to solve this problem with the collective labour dispute settlement law and the statute of the conciliator, as envisaged by the work plan of the Government of the Republic, remains unclear. The CSO has also stated in its position that a number of discussions have taken place with partners in the Ministry of Social Affairs and a calendar plan has been agreed and prepared to prepare a comprehensive package for the modernisation of the collective employment relationship. It is also unclear why the drafters, calling the letter of formal notice from the Chancellor of Justice to the Minister of Social Affairs as a direct incentive and taking this draft as the basis for drafting it, did not bother to take into account the Chancellor of Justice's proposals for resolving the situation. For example, in his letter of formal notice, the Chancellor of Justice states that § 11 (5) of the Act on collective agreements currently in force serves the legitimate purpose of ensuring clarity and stability of the employment relationship by making it clear to both the employee and the employer what conditions apply to the employment relationship after the termination of the collective agreement. The Chancellor of Justice also says in his letter of formal notice that the temporal limitation of the effects of the collective agreement will also ensure clarity and stability of the employment relationship, a period of one to three years is sufficient to enable the parties to enter into collective negotiations and conclude a new collective agreement. The Chancellor of Justice also adds that if the parties are unable to reach agreement on the terms of the collective agreement during the long-term (1 to 3 years) negotiations, it must be assumed that there is no real will between the parties to the collective agreement, and in that case the effects of the earlier collective agreement of unlimited duration cannot be considered reasonable. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, apart from referring to the need to correct collective employment relations, the Chancellor of Justice has presented his very clear views. According to the original version of the current draft, contracts that were in force were intended to be replaced forever by the possibility of abandoning them within three months, and now it is proposed to do so within six months. In fact, the situation is that one extreme regulation will be replaced by another extreme regulation. Extreme solutions are not good for regulating employment. That is what the Chancellor of Justice himself refers to. Then let's not get behind her wide-ranging to impose extreme right-wing conditions in working relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U182	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Amendments to draft 153 have also been received, and we will start reviewing them. The first amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Eiki Nestor, the position of the commission is to disregard it. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U183	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U184	Thank you! We will begin the preparation of the vote on the amendment. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by Mr Nestor, Member of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu, 47 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. A second amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Eiki Nestor and the Social Democratic Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U185	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U186	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by Mr Nestor and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 39, against 48, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U187	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U188	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu, 47 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move on to the fourth amendment tabled by the lead committee. The fifth amendment has also been tabled by the lead committee. With this, we have examined the amendments to the draft 153. Good fellows! There have been two identical proposals for draft 153. The first of these is the proposal to interrupt the second reading of Bill 153, signed by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The second proposal has come from the Estonian Centre Party Group, which also proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the collective agreement law. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on the proposal. I shall put to the vote the second reading of draft 153 by the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu, 47 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 153. The second reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U189	We will move on to the sixth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The amendment of the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code has three objectives. First, exemptions are introduced for three types of accounting obligations: (1) those who prepare the annual report on the basis of international financial reporting standards; (2) those whose main and permanent activities are the provision of financial services; and (3) those who prepare the group's annual report. Those accounting officers have the right to submit an annual report as so far, i.e. in the PDF format, and do not have to rely on taxonomy and taxonomy forms. Secondly, the requirements for the preparation of the annual accounts of the taxable person for profit are simplified. In the future, only one member of the Management Board shall be authorised to sign the annual report after approval by the Management Board. Under the current regulation, it must be signed by all members of the Governing Board. In the case of non-profit organisations and foundations, everything will remain the same, it will continue to be required that the annual report be signed by all members of the management board. Third, according to the OECD recommendations, foundations are required to publish a list of beneficiaries in the annex to the annual accounts or to refer to the source where that list is published. The entry into force provisions specify that the law will enter into force after the procedure of the Riigikogu, with the exception of § 141 (7) of the Act to be amended, § 1 (2) on taxonomy exceptions, which will enter into force retroactively from 1 January 2012. The provisions which enter into force retroactively are of a more favourable nature, are not burdensome and therefore constitute a legitimate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U191	Thank you. The rapporteur has received questions. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U192	Thank you. Dear waitress, I studied this bill thoroughly and listened to your very thorough presentation. Here's the question. Is it possible to proceed with this draft by allowing small companies to keep their accounts under simplified procedures, for example through the tax administration, or are we looking forward to some new drafts in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U193	Thank you. This bill is not intended to provide an answer. But simplified accounting is a subject that has been quietly handled, tried to reduce the administrative burden and tried to provide an e-service. I would not comment on this at the moment, I am not ready for that at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U194	Thank you. Please, Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U195	Thank you. Minister, have I understood correctly that the amendment in § 1 (10) of this bill will ultimately ensure that we will have an overview of all the subsidies granted by the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U196	Thank you. I don't remember that section in my head, if you'll be more specific, I'll remind you. I believe that this has been a little commented on in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U197	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I would like to ask Mr Tõniste, Member of the Economic Commission for the Presidency, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 16 February. Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, and Kurmet Ojamaa, Head of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of the Ministry of Finance, had been invited to the meeting of the Commission, who gave an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and also answered questions. The committee decided to send the draft to the Riigikogu for first reading. a On 22 February, the assembly proposed that the first reading of bill 147 be terminated and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 8 March at 16 a.m. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U199	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Toomas Tõniste. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. With regard to the amendments, I will ask whether the time is still 6 p.m. or 4 p.m., just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U200	Eighteen o'clock.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U201	You said 16 at first. I will set the deadline for the submission of 147 amendments. tho 8 March at 6 p.m. The first reading of this bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U202	We come to the seventh item, which is the first reading of the draft law 139 on the amendment of the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Mr Juhan Parts, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U203	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft amendment to the Electricity Market Act submitted by the Government and related to it, the Law on district heating and the Code on the General Part of Economic Activities is due to two reasons. First of all, we are bringing into Estonian law the European Union's internal electricity market directive as part of the third package of the 2009 internal electricity market, which we have previously discussed in the Committee on European Union Affairs and in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Secondly, the draft also concerns some important aspects relating to the full opening of the electricity market in Estonia in 2013, when the transitional period agreed with the European Union in 2002 when Estonia joined the European Union expires. A little bit more specific about the contents. The most important requirement of the Internal Electricity Market Directive is the ownership unbundling of the transmission system operator from production and sales activities. Estonia has fulfilled this separation requirement in 2010, when the transmission system operator Elering was separated from AS Eesti Energia. The Directive also provides for a more efficient allocation of State-owned electricity undertakings from 3 March 2013 when the transmission system operator, the producer and the seller must belong to different government bodies. This decision is not directly within the competence of the Riigikogu; it remains up to the government to decide which government bodies exercise the rights of the general meeting in relation to these two companies. This separation is necessary to ensure fair competition on the electricity market, sufficient investment in the core network and equal treatment for new entrants. The second half of this draft concerns the full opening of the electricity market in Estonia from 1 January 2013. I repeat, this is actually a long time ago. We now want to foresee some further technical changes and also make substantial improvements. The technical change is that we repeal the existing regulations relating to the purchase and sale obligations foreseen in the operation of the captive market, as well as the rules on the fixing of the marginal price for electricity sales. Another provision, perhaps more important to our consumers. The draft provides that all household customers are to be guaranteed access to electricity at a clear and non-discriminatory price even if they have not found a suitable electricity seller. In this case, all consumers will be allowed to purchase electricity under the so-called "general service." This draft law provides that the general service obligation is to be exercised by a network operator with which the home consumer is connected to the electrical installation. There are currently 36 network operators operating in Estonia. The general service may be charged a fee which, according to the draft law, can consist of reasonable expenses and a reasonable margin of business profit. Whether the opening-up of the electricity market increases or lowers the market price of electricity is difficult to assess. More than half of the household's electricity bill consists of network charges, renewable energy charges and electricity excise duties which are not affected by the opening of the electricity market. So opening up the electricity market will affect one of the electricity components for which the consumer is currently paying. In order to make the transition to a free electricity market as convenient as possible for the consumer, the state has planned, through the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to provide more information to the population. This provision of information includes training, regional information days, media communication, various conferences, certainly also in a simplified way and in a form of sending information to people at home, be it brochures or TV clips. An Internet site will be created where everyone can compare offers and choose a suitable seller. As an independent regulator and system operator, OÜ Elering, who has very important obligations to ensure that all sellers who wish to offer this service at the opening of the market are treated equally in terms of information, electricity sellers, as well as the Consumer Protection Board, are also involved in the information activities. The media communication has already begun. As experience so far has shown that the most effective information campaign should fall in the second half of the year, although we have planned a wide range of activities by spring, the most intensive information for the population will remain in the fourth quarter of the second half of the year, the end of the third quarter, and will certainly last until at least the summer of 2013. I would also like to inform the honourable Riigikogu about a study that we have carried out in order to understand the extent to which the Estonian people have been informed about this change. A very brief summary of the study. It can be said that 2/3 of the Estonian population has been briefly informed about the opening up of the market. It is quite clear that most would like to receive substantial additional information. This campaign, as well as the activities of market participants, must certainly fill this gap. When it comes to attitudes, it is important to note that more than half of those interviewed have a positive view of the fact that the market is opening up. As is always the case with such a change, people naturally have the most questions and reservations about prices. It is understandable that when we open the market, the price will start to develop in the market. It is important, however, to pass on exactly the information on how it will develop. It is important to know that the market must be well organised, that the consumer is adequately protected if he behaves prudently, and that in the long term this step will certainly also benefit consumers in terms of price. Of course, practical guidelines are also given on how a person would be reasonable and wise to act when concluding new electricity sales contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U204	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U205	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Two days ago, a sock briquette turned for me, whose annual electricity consumption in the factory is more than EUR 150,000 in monetary terms. Their company has virtually no interconnection point, they are in an industrial park where there are quite a number of companies that do not have an interconnection point. They can't go to the market themselves, the lessor doesn't agree, doesn't bother to deal with these things. Do you think we can come to their aid under this law? There are quite a lot of companies, electricity consumers who do not fit or actually do not have access to the market. What can we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U206	The electricity consumer does not have access to the market? I understand this problem, I know this well-established practice, where there are many consumers, but one real estate manager or owner who is in contractual relations with the electricity seller or also with the current network company, although it would be more reasonable for this end-user to enter into a direct contract, and this cannot be resolved in any way. We could still analyze it, there have been a number of other cases. We can analyse whether legislative improvements are needed. I do not rule out that this is a common issue of interpersonal agreements in the same way. On the other hand, however, the Competition Authority has a very important role to play here, which must look at the behaviour and consistency of monopolies or dominant companies with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U207	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U208	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! My question concerns § 1 (52) of the draft law, which introduces a three-point system for controlling fuel used for production into the law. The Estonian Renewable Energy Chamber considers that this amendment or amendment creates undue confusion. We already have a functioning system where producers report on the basis of established practice. This change is also undisputed with stakeholders and cannot be realised in practice. What can you say about that? Do we need to think a little more about this and discuss it with stakeholders?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U209	Surely it is always worth thinking about when things have not yet been done. But I dare say it's done. The issue is how to ensure adequate control of renewable energy producers who are likely to use biomass. That's the question. I think there have been different cases for both smaller and larger users. In my opinion, this provision should help to ensure that control functions (those who pay this support, above all, Elering does, and certain competences are provided here by the Competition Authority). If there is a specific proposal in the House for Renewable Energy, we can discuss it between the first and second readings. However, on the basis of 3-4 years of practice, I believe that all this control will certainly provide a significant improvement, and this is in the interests of consumers. I think it is actually also in the interests of producers, because producers also want other producers to use or produce as much renewable electricity as they declare. This can be checked if the use of fuel is under external control. When it comes to not discussing it, it comes as a surprise to me. I think this has been discussed very thoroughly. However, it is always the custom of some stakeholders to define not to discuss their narrow-interested proposals. I would advise you to make a distinction!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U210	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U211	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. When we discussed this draft a few weeks ago in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the issue of the exact way in which settlement under open market conditions takes place for a common customer was caught up in the air. In the meantime, have the circumstances to which the home consumer provides his/her readings clarified when he/she has a different seller and network operator? Does he get two bills? Is this so-called practical life clear to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U212	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U213	It's clear that we need to disconnect the network service. If you noticed, today one of the largest distribution system service providers in the Estonian Energia Group changed its name due to European requirements. This service must be separated. The form in which a number of invoices are presented in paper form or how much is in electronic form is also, in some ways, a question of agreements between sellers and other companies involved in the market. I imagine it will be made as comfortable as possible for the consumer. Of course, there may be some kind of transitional dispute here, we do not know yet how many companies are coming to the market as sellers at the moment, a licence is known to exist for five companies, and how everything is going to work out exactly, but we hope that this will become the right thing for the consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U214	Thank you. The question is more general. Do you consider it reasonable for the Competition Authority to be subject to the same ministry that it supervises, or where it is subject to the same ministry, which is also subject to the authorities it supervises, including, for example, Eesti Energia and Elering? Is it fundamentally reasonable or could other solutions be considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U215	The Competition Authority is not subject to any ministry; this is the first fundamental mistake. The Competition Authority is free in its substantive decisions and must be independent. After all, we can always ask the same question about the prosecutor's office, the defence police and many other institutions, which are under government law in the realms of ministries, whether they are dependent or independent in their substantive activities. I dare say that the Competition Authority is completely independent in its substantive activities. And when we talk about what depends on the government or the executive, the Competition Authority has gained considerable resources over the last few years to do its job well. There is no such practice where a minister or another member of the government could give any guidelines to the Competition Authority, tasks to make substantive decisions, in Estonia. It would be criminally punishable, and it can't be. In this sense, it does not, in principle, matter which ministry he is in.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U216	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U217	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Since the draft law to a large extent concerns the opening of the electricity market from the new year, I am asking in this regard. It is known that from the new year we will face an increase in the price of electricity, estimated at up to 20% on final accounts. Have you considered, discussed in the government, how to help the underprivileged families who may be facing difficulties in the new year, especially those who are heating with electricity, as a result of this very large increase in electricity prices? Are you planning on developing some kind of action plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U218	We have analysed it both at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and at the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'll give you such a simplified summary. If we are now looking at this impact on the consumption basket and, above all, on families living on the edge of living, without knowing how much the price of electricity is still rising, I would call for some caution with this number. I wonder if you noticed that in December, for example, the market price for electricity was lower than the regulated price, both on the Estonian power exchange and in Finland. Therefore, these price announcements should take into account this relatively volatile situation. It is such a price setting activity in its own right. This is as difficult a situation as it is today in the capital market in Europe or in the world. But that's it. We've been analyzing this subject. We still need to help families who are struggling to cope through a system of coping. Of course, if a person's electricity bill is included in the so-called primary consumption basket, it will be taken into account when calculating income support. A completely separate issue is whether the income support we pay is sufficient or not. If it isn't enough, then let's solve this question. But if it is meant that the solution would be some kind of tax reduction, let us not forget that if we reduce the tax, we will reduce it for everyone. There are certainly fewer families at and below the income limit than those who can cope. That's one. Secondly, there was a very common concept in political history, such as social electricity, where we administratively forced electricity companies to make exceptions in one way or another. I think this opportunity, I'll point out, will be left to the sellers. This is definitely not the solution. Yes, we have analysed this issue and we have worked together in various ways. Of course, we must monitor this, just as the government as a whole must monitor the state of our families' livelihoods and decide whether or not to react. Here is the real basis for real decisions, there are real numbers and their effects. I do not see the fatal impact on the consumption basket that we are trying to instill. The numbers are not very high, even if the price correction would, for example, be as you referred to in your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U219	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U220	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I'd like to come back to that rendezvous point or the sock factory. I also asked the same question to Taavi Veskimägi, Elering's leader, but he could not answer for either this or similar cases. At the same time, Elering is interested in their access to the market. He promised they'd work through this. I'm asking the Ministry to take this thing seriously and find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U221	Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U222	Thank you. I don't think there was a question. Let us try to address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U223	Thank you. First, a little comment. Administration and governance need not only to be honest, but also to be fair. I think that a situation in which the supervisor is in the same ministry's jurisdiction, where there is oversight, can inevitably raise questions, even if these questions are not justified. So, in my opinion, you might want to consider it. But here's the question. The Electricity Market Directive requires the State to set up an independent mechanism to deal with complaints more effectively, especially in the case of out-of-court settlements. Have any such thoughts been thought about in the ministry, and could they ever come here as a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U224	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U225	Thank you. Depends on how life develops in Estonia. If there are a large number of disputes of this kind, I personally would rather be in favour of the pre-trial dispute mechanism, be it consumer disputes or labour disputes. Now we haven't seen this coming, but let's see how things turn out. And obviously, you can also make your own proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U226	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. One way to help vulnerable families if energy prices rise would be, for example, if the Ministry of the Economy developed mechanisms to force energy producers or network operators to save a certain amount of energy each year. This means, for example, that they have an obligation to make housing for less-insured families more energy-efficient. This would ultimately enable these families to emerge from the vicious circle that has developed. This is one point of view and, in fact, such a solution has been used in many Member States of the European Union. But I'm gonna ask you another question. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Sustainable Energy Support Group, together with the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we reached the conclusion that Estonia has not developed a smart grid development plan. Are you planning on doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U227	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U228	Sure. It's a complicated question. This smart grid development plan is like an Estonian nuclear power plant. I believe that, first of all, we would try to cope with the question of remote metering. We've been looking at investments so birdily, looking into what it means and who's paying for it, all these beautiful plans. We have also looked at the practice of other European countries. It's a long way to go when we're talking about a smart grid development plan. But it certainly has to be dealt with. The answer to your question is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U229	Thank you. Good minister! Are all the companies and public authorities concerned technologically ready to open up the market? The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the transmission system operator Elering must prepare the data exchange platform. You yourself said that a separate website would also be prepared, and we know that all licensed sellers will have access to consumption data. Is this work done on time and there will be no technological problems with the transition?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U230	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U231	Thank you. I hope it doesn't. The central point of your mention is certainly the data exchange platform. Of course, the IT work is still ongoing, but at least there is a timetable and a sufficiently long test period is planned. I hope there won't be any glitches.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U232	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The limits on the cost of income support are set by the local government with its own procedures. The funds needed for income support must be earmarked from the state budget through the Ministry of Social Affairs and local governments can apply for more money in the event of a shortage of or the risk of closure of these funds. Has there also been cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs in preparing this bill, as it is actually a matter of the 2013 budget? If not, maybe it's possible to work with the Ministry of Social Affairs between two readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U233	There has certainly been cooperation and, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs has coordinated this draft. Secondly, as I said in answering your colleague's question, we have also analysed the effects on families at higher risk of coping. Thirdly, as far as the resources in the budget are concerned, they are imputable expenditure. In this sense, this should not be an obstacle. Rather, yes, the subject we are discussing here day by day: are the limits of living and consumption baskets sufficient and commensurate with real life, is there a resource for the decisions we make here and what can they bring? That's another issue, but it's out of the scope of a particular bill. I have an opinion here, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U234	Good Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, no further questions for you. Thank you very much for your presentation. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the chair of the Chair of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U235	Honourable Riigikogu! The Economic Commission discussed the draft Act 139 on the amendment of the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws at its meeting on 9 February. Juhan Parts, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, invited to the meeting of the Commission, and Jako Reinaste, Head of the Energy Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Viive Šavel, Chief Specialist, gave an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. In short, the draft has two objectives. Firstly, pursuant to the European Union Directive, provision should be made for the separation of the transmission system from production and supply activities, in particular requirements for the management of the transmission system. Secondly, to establish a legal framework for the general service relating to the opening of the electricity market in 2013. With regard to the first objective, the management of the core network, the obligation that has already been passed on by the public in the framework of the draft has been imposed on Elering, the Eesti Energia and the transmission system operator, must no longer belong to the same ministry on 1 May next year, so that the shareholder must be changed. Let it be said that by this law we do not say which ministry is to be governed by which company, this decision must be made by the government itself. The Minister confirmed in the Commission that an analysis of this is being carried out. The most important part of the draft, of course, is the opening up of the market, on which there was a long and in-depth debate in the Commission. Here are some of the most important issues raised. The initiators of the draft act explained that in the autumn of this year, network operators and sellers will inform consumers of the termination of contracts on 31 December 2012 and explain the possibility of concluding new contracts. It is not mandatory to conclude new contracts. If, as of 1 January 2013, the consumer does not enter into a contract with a new seller, he automatically becomes a general service user under the law, i.e. he becomes a customer of the service provider in his place of residence. The general service price is also set by law and is the average exchange price of the previous calendar month. The Competition Authority has the right to coordinate the general conditions for the sale of electricity to the consumer under the general service and the consumer will have the right to change the seller every month. One important issue was consumer information. The main information is generally done by service providers, and the organisation of campaigns depends on the size and ambition of market participants. In order to prepare the state's information work, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has set up a communication working group with representatives of MKM, Competition Board, Consumer Protection Board and AS Elering. The proposed actions shall be consistent with the timetable of the communication plan. The first communication seminars will begin this spring. The information campaign's spike will be concentrated at the end of the year, with information leaflets being sent to citizens directly this autumn and information days will be held. At the same time, market participants inform their consumers. An important customer data set will also be set up in the core network company, open to all companies with a sales licence. This creates the possibility to offer specific products, taking into account customer wishes and consumption patterns, such as cheaper electricity prices on weekends, etc. The Commission raised the question of whether the draft regulation regulates the entry into the market of new service providers and whether competition between retailers is increasing. The initiators of the draft act explained that the entry of new sellers into the market is already regulated by the Electricity Market Act. There are currently five retailers on the market, as the Minister has just mentioned, and their names are listed on the website of AS Elering. The exact competitive situation cannot be predicted, but market entrants are expected to become aware in the third quarter of this year. It was also mentioned in the Commission that the price of oil shale used for the production of heat, under the current draft, remains regulated under the district heating law. In essence, this concerns the heat produced by Narva Power Plants. This would lead to a situation where part of the oil shale price is still regulated and part is not. In essence, then, the price of Narva heat would still be priced according to cost-based pricing. It was also expressed the view that regulated prices could remain valid only for certain years, which would motivate companies to invest and find alternatives and eliminate market distortions. Let us conclude by saying that renewable energy subsidies, subsidies, etc. do not concern themselves in substance; these disputes and debates are still ahead. At the moment, we are primarily dealing with opening up the market. To ensure that our other debates do not stand in the way of the adoption of the law, the relevant provisions have already been removed or withdrawn at second reading. Finally, to the decisions of the Committee on Economic Affairs. First, it was decided to send the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws to 139 Riigikogu plenary for the first reading, as amended, together with the amended explanatory memorandum. February 15th. The decision was consensual. However, due to a change in the Minister's schedule, this first decision was reviewed at the Commission meeting on 13 February and the draft was decided to be sent to the first reading on 22 February, i.e. today. This decision was also consensual. Secondly, it was decided to propose to the Assembly that the first reading of draft 139 be closed and, thirdly, that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 8 March at 6 p.m. These decisions were also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U236	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Arto Aas! Let's open the negotiations. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Kaljuvee Central Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U237	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! In the view of the Centre Party, it would be very necessary to bring to the public the facts of how our government has acted in recent years under the auspices of the liberalisation of the electricity market once again in the event of another amendment to the Electricity Market Act. It has not been said much that all electricity consumers have been treated in the same way. As a result of the rapid increase in VAT on domestic customers, the price of electricity to large industrial customers has been shifted from, for example, EUR 29 per megawatt-hour in 2007 to EUR 68 per megawatt-hour in 2011. In four years, the price has increased more than twice. The price of electricity to the home consumer will continue to increase, reaching a particularly unpleasant phase at the beginning of next year, when Estonia will switch to the so-called free market. The Estonian Government could have significantly prevented the rise in electricity prices by keeping the costs of transmission networks under control and with a truly more consumer-friendly tax policy, both in terms of excise duty, renewable energy charges and VAT. Our government didn't do it and didn't want to do it. What did the government do? Our government, along with Eesti Energia, screwed up the price of electricity very rapidly to take billions of kroons of dividends, to make financial transactions to separate the core network, but to change the share capital of Eesti Energia. All this for a noble purpose, for the balance of the state budget and, in a sense, for the euro. So Eesti Energia, our energy producer, was used as a so-called financial instrument to balance the state budget, to decorate the state budget picture. This bill gives the government the opportunity to transfer Eesti Energia to the Ministry of Finance. In view of the above, it would be the case that Eesti Energia is like a government financial instrument. In fact, Eesti Energia should still be a producer of electricity, a company engaged in energy policy, producing electricity, distributing electricity, etc. Well, the government must discuss this step very seriously and make the right decision. The directive must be complied with, there is nothing to be done here, but these decisions should be very thoughtful. I've been talking about the sock factory twice today, so I'll talk to you for the third time. If we open up the market, we should also think about it, so I understand that the entry point in the law is one such point in the law, so that all consumers can have their own entry point so that they can actually go to the market to buy electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U238	Thank you very much. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of Toomas Tõniste Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft amendment to the Electricity Market Act discussed today also contains provisions that are necessary for the full opening of the Estonian electricity market. Although it cannot be said that the electricity market will be opened with this bill, as the opening date of the start of 2013 has been in place since Estonia started to move to the European Union, the full opening of the market is still one of the most important changes in our electricity economy in this decade. I would therefore like to address briefly some of the issues relating to the free electricity market. The transition from a regulated market to a free market is not, in itself, a surprising change in the context of other areas of life. We buy most goods and services as consumers every day on the free market. Apart from the transition from a planned economy to a market economy in general, the opening of the electricity market can be compared to the opening of the communications market in the early 90s. Competition between operators has certainly benefited consumers in terms of both price and choice and quality of services. The EU requirement that the electricity market should be open is broadly based on the same logic. Competition in the production and sale of electricity is possible and must be put to work in the interests of consumers, as it will ultimately benefit consumers. As far as the free market is concerned, the exact market price for electricity in one year, two or three, but the regulated market does not, in fact, provide greater certainty as to price in the long term. Today's regulated electricity price also depends on a number of free market components and, as they change, the price will inevitably have to be adjusted. In the case of a free market, price changes will take place faster and more effectively in both directions. The price of electricity in the contracts to be concluded for 2013 will be more precise in the second half of this year when these contracts will be concluded. In any case, it is unwarranted to scare consumers by the price of electricity rising to astronomical heights. The draft amendment to the Electricity Market Act will ensure that no consumer will lose electricity due to the opening of the market even if he does not enter into a contract for the purchase of electricity. In this case, the consumer is obliged by the company providing the network service to sell the electricity to him under the general service. I would like to point out once again, just in case, that if we look at the rules on trade in CO2 emissions which are changing in Europe at the same time as opening up the market from 2013, then the Estonian consumer will not lose anything even temporarily due to the opening up of the market. The reason is simple: a significantly higher price of CO2 would result in a significant increase in regulated electricity prices and possibly more than the price of an open market. The important question is how great competition will be in the Estonian electricity market. The Estonian electricity market is already partially open and there are four companies selling electricity to the free market. It can be assumed that opening up the market will bring more competitors, if not immediately from 1 January 2013, in time. In Finland, for example, nearly 100 companies sell electricity. Here, Estlink-2 is certainly an important part of the launch, which greatly broadens the possibilities. Consumer information is important in relation to the full opening of the electricity market. As a member of the Economic Commission, I have also asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs for information on what was planned in this regard, and on this basis I believe that this campaign will be noticeable, that information will be provided to people through various channels and to the extent necessary. For my part, at the end of this speech, I would like to emphasise two other things that are important to consumers. First of all, as the electricity market opens, domestic consumers will in any case be guaranteed a general service by this draft. This means that even if the consumer does nothing, i.e. does not enter into a contract with any of the electricity sellers, his electricity supply will not be cut off. Secondly, I repeat that the opening up of the market concerns only electricity and not the network service. The opening-up of the market therefore affects 35% of current electricity bills, as this is the amount of electricity price that the average electricity consumer has to pay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U240	Thank you very much. There are no more requests for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to finish the first reading of the draft law. First reading is complete. The deadline for the submission of the 139 amendments to the draft is set in s. March 8th at 6 p.m. The seventh item on the agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U241	The eighth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U242	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft proposed by the Government concerns the amendment of the Act of Accession to the Convention on Rail Transport. The bill is short, two points. Firstly, we repeal § 2 of the Act, which laid down two reservations to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail (non-application of Article 30 of Appendix A to the Convention and Annexes E, F and G to the Convention in the Republic of Estonia). Today, the situation has changed. As regards Annexes E, F and G, derogations had been introduced by all Member States of the European Union on a recommendation from the European Commission. The European Union has now acceded to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and, as a result of this decision, the Member States of the European Union must also waive these derogations. These relate to the use of Annexes A and C and, as a general summary, this merger does not bring any practical or real effects or problems to Estonian rail transport. Part of the Annexes to the Convention on Rail Transport have also been implemented by bilateral agreements. The second amendment to the draft. We withdraw the declaration made in subsection 3 (3) of the Act of Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, according to which the Republic of Estonia reserves the right to regulate the international carriage of dangerous goods within its territory by international rail transport agreement with RID. This is because the declaration concerning Annex C is not valid because the Convention on Rail Transport is not accepted or registered by the Secretariat because the International Convention on Rail Transport does not allow such a declaration to be made. It is only possible to introduce a derogation for non-application of Annex C, which would in turn be contrary to European Union legislation. The practice of carriage of goods does not change as, since the entry into force of the Convention on International Carriage by Rail on 1 January 2009, economic operators must be able to accept goods under Annex C irrespective of the declaration. The Estonian Police and Border Guard Board has also made the necessary changes and preparations so that goods sent on the basis of the RID can be sent and received from 1 January 2009. As the use of another international agreement is neither restricted nor excluded, the RID has never been used in practice in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U243	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask Lembit Kaljuvee, member of the Chair Committee on Economic Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U244	Madam President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission of the Riigikogu discussed the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Accession of International Carriage by Rail to the Convention initiated by the Government of the Republic on 6 February, Monday. Members and advisers of the Commission were present; Urmas Reinsalu and Urve Palo were absent from the committee. Minister Juhan Parts and Indrek Laineveer, Head of Railways and Roads Department, who presented the draft and presented its objectives, were present by the Ministry. Questions were answered by Members of the Commission. I myself, as the author of the draft, also addressed three railway companies who had found answers to their questions in their contacts with the Ministry. As a result, for me, the issue of companies not having problems with the transposition of this directive was resolved. The Commission unanimously decided to send the draft Act amending the Act on Accession to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, initiated by the Government of the Republic, to the Riigikogu for first reading. a February 22, 2005. That decision was made a week ago. On 6 February we had decided to send the bill to the big hall last week, but since the Minister was unable to participate in the debate, we postponed the matter for a week. The second proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft 160 (the decision was also consensual). Thirdly, we decided to propose a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 8 March at 6 p.m., for the submission of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U245	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Lembit Kaljuvee. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission proposed that the first reading be closed. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling 160 amendments to the draft is s. March 8th at 6 p.m. The eighth item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U246	The ninth item is the first reading of the draft Act 163 on the ratification of the Statute of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government proposes to join the International Renewable Energy Agency. The Renewable Energy Agency was established in January 2009 under the leadership of Germany with a view to stimulating the use of renewable energy and the sustainable use of different forms of renewable energy. The aim of the Agency is to expand the potential for increased use of renewable energy in the world. There are a number of organisations in the world dealing with energy issues at global level, such as the International Energy Agency, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Energy Charter, the United Nations Economic and Social Council, the World Energy Council, but these organisations do not deal directly with renewable energy issues. The fact that, as of 31 December 2011, 156 countries had expressed their intention to join the International Renewable Energy Agency and signed the Statutes of the Agency for this purpose is a characteristic of the willingness of the countries to participate in the sectoral organisation. The Statute has been ratified by 87 countries. So we can say that the International Renewable Energy Agency has become the second largest world organisation after the United Nations in quite a short time. To date, the organisation has started its work, the Agency's Secretariat in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates, and the Agency's Innovation and Technology Centre in Bonn, which is responsible for developing renewable energy technologies and for the competitiveness and market development of renewable energy sources. The Republic of Estonia is currently in observer status. The Observer shall be a member who has not ratified the Statutes. This means that we have no voting rights, as well as limited access to studies and materials carried out by the International Renewable Energy Agency. The main sources of the Agency's budget are membership fees and voluntary donations. Participation in the work of the organisation shall be voluntary, but the rights of the member may be suspended temporarily if the membership fee is not paid. In autumn 2011, an official letter was sent to Estonia with information that Estonia's membership fee is expected. We have not paid the membership fee because the ratification process is under way. The amount of the membership fee depends on the Agency's annual budget. In 2010, the Agency had a budget of USD 13,69 million, while in 2011 it had a budget of USD 13.26 million. The amount of the Agency's membership fee shall be determined in accordance with the principles applied by the United Nations and shall also be influenced by the number of participants in the organisation. Based on the list of signatory countries and their total revenue data, Estonia's annual membership fee would have been 4900 euros in 2011. The 2012 membership fee will be established when the Agency's work plan is approved. It is likely to remain in the same order of magnitude. We have also planned this amount for the state budget. One might ask whether Estonia will benefit from this. We believe that Estonia will benefit from this. We show that Estonia values the debate on solving global energy problems and increasing the environmental sustainability of energy production in the world. The direct benefits of participation in the Agency are primarily reflected in the possibility of obtaining systematically collected structured information on the development of renewable energy in the world and information on the implementation of renewable energy policies in different countries and the dissemination of Estonia's experience in implementing renewable energy policy and information on renewable energy technologies developed in the country. I propose that this ratification be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U248	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U249	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We have also discussed what I am asking in the Commission, but in the interests of the verbatim report, I am going to ask again. As we know, one of the members of this organisation is also the European Union. My question is this: can we not get all these data and research results through the European Union, for example, if we do not join this organisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U250	Thank you. Estonia is not the European Union; Estonia is a member of the European Union. I'm sure there's some way we could if we really wanted to. The organization is still very young. Rather, we are currently working on this issue at a global level, and we do not know where this organisation will ever come from. I think there is a huge difference between whether a member of the organisation is the European Union or Estonia directly. It is certain that direct membership will also provide real information. A good example here is the public debate that started a few weeks ago on another international agreement, where it can also be seen that information may not always be sufficient if the European Commission alone has negotiating powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U251	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. I would like to ask Olga Sõtnik, member of the Chair Committee on Economic Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs on Monday, 6 February 2012. The session was attended by Arto Aas, Toomas Tõniste, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Palling, Kalev Lillo, Jaan Õunapuu, Olga Sõtnik and Tõnis Palts Urmas Reinsalu as alternate members and Commission officials Margit Ubaleht, Kaido Rosin, Marin Daniel, Piia Schults and Raimo Saadi. There was no Urmas Reinsalu and Urve Palo. Mr Madis Laaniste, Minister and also Head of the Ministry's Department of Energy for Sustainable Energy, took part in the discussion on this point, who gave an overview of the content of the draft objectives and answered questions put by the members of the Commission. At the end of the consultation, the Commission made three consensual decisions. First, send draft Act 163 on the ratification of the Statute of the International Renewable Energy Agency initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for first reading. February 15th. However, this decision was amended by the Commission on 13 February, as the Minister was unable to attend the plenary session on 15 February. The new decision was that the first reading of the draft will take place today, 22 February. The second decision was to propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of draft 163 and the third was to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 8 March at 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-02-22_U253	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thanks a lot, Olga Soldier! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to finish the first reading. First reading of Bill 163 is complete. The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft 163 is s. March 8th at 6 p.m. Today's agenda is exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Have a good night. Closure of the sitting at 4.57 p.m.
