ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please check your presence first! 43 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 58 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U2	Let's start the briefing. The first question is from Mr Viktor Vassilyev to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! On 27 April Äripäev writes how the restriction on the establishment of pharmacies, one of the objectives of which was to ensure access to medicines in sparsely populated places, virtually lost all competition on the pharmaceutical market. It is now the case that when a place is released where a pharmacy could be built, a drawing of lots is arranged. Large companies have set up shell companies, some companies have set up a hundred shell companies and such license lottery is organised. Business Day concludes that the current law does not protect the pharmaceutical manufacturer but favours the large pharmacy chains on the market. What is your opinion on the compatibility of this situation with the principles of market economy competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U4	Thank you. Of course, the ideas on the basis of which the current regime was established in its own time were noble. The aim was to cover Estonia evenly with the pharmacy network. The objective has also been achieved, but the current network is once again fixed and in such a frozen state and is not open to newcomers. So the system should be changed. There are many ways to change the system. Firstly, abolish the establishment limit and open up the pharmacy market to all new entrants. The abolition of the restriction may result in a much higher number of pharmacies in Estonia, but in practice this means that many existing pharmacies will no longer be able to withstand competition and must probably be closed. In order to create competition, it would be possible to place certain medicinal products on the other trading network, but there are also very many objections to this. It is also known that retail medicinal products require specialist advice and advice. If they can be bought from any grocery store without any specialist advice, there is a possibility that they will be used in a way that is harmful to human health, much greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U5	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! These licences are also used for other circuses. For example, if one pharmacy wants to move to another place, it can only move 500 metres away without a competition. Pharmacies make little frog jumps like this to move 500 meters somewhere they want to move to. As far as over-the-counter sales of medicines are concerned, for example, at Selver's store or at a gas station, this cannot be called a circus, because there is still people's health back there and the story is serious. Why could the state not fully and openly support the establishment of pharmacies in rural areas, financially, with public money, either through the state budget or through a legal entity governed by public law, and regulate it in such a way that pharmacies with public support can also be preserved in rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U7	Thank you. The state supports the availability of medicines, already. Support for pharmacies would require additional resources. But as we all know, the resources are so limited that they're still limited. Even if the state supports pharmacies, there is still a question of how to open up the pharmaceutical market to competition. Through the grants, the current network of pharmacies would be permanent, which is not once again the desired goal. I do not believe that your anecdotal example of how pharmacies shift from one location to another with 500 metres of jumps is a vital example. Theoretically, it's possible, but I don't think anyone's practically gonna do that. But also theoretical construction is already such a thing that makes me at least very seriously think that the current restriction on the establishment of pharmacies should be abolished.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U8	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U9	Thank you. These frog jumps are described in Äripäev. I don't know if Äripäev is lying or writing the truth. The Director-General of the Competition Authority has turned to the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Chancellor of Justice for the lifting of this restriction of establishment. Nothing has happened. Business Day in its article accuses politicians of indifference, stating as a reason the influence of large pharmacy chains on Reform Party and IRL politicians. That's what Business Day said, not me! The question I have is this: is the argument that the Pharmacy chains are affecting the Reform Party and the IRL, right or is it a rude lie of Äripäev? If this is wrong, as head of government, are you going to disprove it in any way and take any steps to that end?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U10	Thank you. Certainly, no personal donation can affect the political decisions of the Reform Party. In this sense, this statement is wrong. But I do not even consider it necessary to refute every statement in the paper, and it is not necessary to take legal action to disprove these claims. In that case, we could only go to court for some men and know what will result from such trials for politicians. The subject is being amplified and the fines imposed by our courts on the wrong statement of fact are almost nonexistent, ridiculous. I can promise you that I will read this article afterwards. I'm not a very active reader of your publication, I don't appreciate it so much that I should read it all the time, but I'm going to read it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U11	A question registered on the spot, Mr Lenk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! There has been a great deal of talk about the reform of the pharmacy network in this Chamber, and the opposition warned earlier about everything that life has shown today, but the government did not listen to our doubts. You said yourself that the goal was noble, but it didn't work out like that. That is why I have the question: aren't the same dangers still ambushing? We have big, noble goals with education and administrative reform. Is it not the same risk that the opposition's opinion has not been heard, and perhaps in a few years' time, we will talk in the same way about the noble aims of the education reform, but not about the dreams that have come true?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U13	However, I consider the current pharmacy network to be a relatively well-serving network for our residents. The drugs are available near home. If all the restrictions on competition that I, as a liberal and as a reform party, would naturally expect and would like to disappear, this could mean closing small pharmacies not belonging to very many chains in the competition. If that is your aim, then say in a clear and loud voice that you want small land pharmacies to be closed and therefore, by referring to the article of Äripäev, you want to propose that the restrictions on competition for the establishment of pharmacies be abolished on a daily basis without a thorough analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U14	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U15	The next question is from my colleague, Karel Rüütel, to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! In April, a visit of the Social Democratic Party Group to Harjumaa took place, in which many municipalities raised the problem that the state has, as if, promised to compensate for land tax exemptions for land under nature conservation, but so far this has not been the case. A few weeks ago, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment introduced the development plan for nature conservation to the Committee of the Riigikogu Environment until 2020. Sub-section 2.7 of this plan states that the system of compensation for land tax reductions resulting from nature conservation restrictions should be developed in such a way as to allow for full compensation of loss of income for municipalities. In my opinion, the officials of the Ministry found themselves a little embarrassed because they were not able to explain exactly in the Commission the extent to which the land tax exemption had been granted and how it was intended to compensate the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U17	Thank you. To be honest, I cannot comment on your claim as if the state or government had allowed land tax on land under nature conservation to be compensated for by the municipalities. I don't have the information that the government made such a promise. But if we are talking at all about natural values, nature conservation, I believe you agree that the protection of natural values is such an overwhelming public interest and there is no point in confronting the municipality and the country on this issue. Just as preserving the diversity of our nature is in the interests of the state, it is still in the interests of the municipalities. You indicated that you visited Harjumaa. There are also examples from Harjumaa where municipalities themselves have been interested in creating new protected areas and have wished to see more conservation of natural values. I believe that, when they make this proposal, they have been fully aware of how the nature conservation of one or another region or area will affect the collection of land tax. So once again, the protection of natural values is of overwhelming public interest. There is no point in confronting municipalities and the country and saying that one has to make up for something to another.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U18	Please, Mr Karel Rüütel, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U19	Thank you. Good minister! I read the Nature Conservation Development Plan until 2020, which was presented in the Committee on the Environment a few weeks ago. It states very clearly that the State has committed itself to developing the system in such a way as to enable the municipalities to fully compensate for the revenue base. This is, in my opinion, a national document which, although not coming to the Riigikogu, will certainly be approved by the government, at least that is what it says in this plan. The Kuusalu municipality is known to have around 36000 hectares of land with various advantages, including land tax incentives. This is over 52% of the entire territory of Kuusalu municipality. According to the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, more than 6 million kroons, or more than 387000 euros, have not been collected in the rural municipality's budget. In your response, I read that today's government does not have a very clear plan on how to develop this compensation system and whether to develop it at all. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U20	Thank you. The development plan for nature conservation discusses the need to analyse the situation of land tax reductions and develop the system if necessary. It is unwise to take the position that the rest of the taxpayers should start compensating the municipalities, who are very interested in setting up a protected area in their municipality or city territory. Once again, the protection of natural values is something which is equally in the interests of local governments and the interests of the state. The diversity created and maintained as a result is not only a state interest, but also a local government interest. Therefore, I really do not consider it reasonable that we are talking about some kind of additional compensation. The existence of protected areas, the diversity of nature, values the same local habitat. I think the interest of local authorities is that the environment is as diverse as possible and therefore better quality of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U21	Please, Mr Karel Rüütel, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U22	Thank you. Good minister! I fully agree with you: the fact that we have beautiful places of nature is not only of state interest, but of interest to all of us. But if we take one particular municipality, such as Kuusalu, it's as if people in Kuusalu municipality are being punished for living in a beautiful place. 52% of their rural municipality's territory is exempt from land tax, which means that the rural municipality's budget receives so much less money that the municipality has even had to go to court to get additional funds and provide its people with a better quality service. Do you not think it is necessary to seek some sort of compromise between the municipalities and the state, so that we do not punish people living in the Kuusalu municipality, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U23	Thank you. I am completely in the opposite view, and I think that the people of Kuusalu rural municipality are much better off than any other rural municipality with no natural value in that capacity. Their living environment is much more diverse, richer, and it is not punishment, but, on the contrary, the advantage of the inhabitants of this municipality over many other places and municipalities. However, as you certainly know, the reduction in municipal budgets linked to the land tax credit will be taken into account in the calculation of the Equalisation Fund. This also applies to land protected by nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U24	We will continue with the issues registered on the ground. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Freeing land tax on land-based lands is not only a problem for Kuusalu municipality. For example, in Noarootsi, 35% of the land is protected, in Lihula municipality half the land, or 47%, and in Hanila municipality 30%. 74% of Ridala municipality is subject to various environmental and other restrictions, with 30% in the target protection zone. Understandably, a good living environment is the interest of both the state and the municipality, but very simply, the exemption from land tax on land under nature conservation reduces the revenue base of the municipalities. What is your recommendation to these municipalities on how they should deliver or manage to compensate for this loss of revenue? Do you think that part of the Equalisation Fund will actually compensate for this land tax exemption?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U26	Thank you. Yes, the constraints currently imposed and the reduction in municipal budgets linked to the land tax credit will be taken into account for the Equalisation Fund. I think that this is the way the system continues and should continue. But next to the municipalities you listed, I will simply make a comparison that there really are a lot of municipalities that have proposed that one or the other area be protected or have been very strong supporters of the formation of protected areas. For example, we can talk about the protection of Loo in Jõelähtme rural municipality, here in Tallinn there are Pääsküla bogs, Tuvi, Lillepi and Nõmme parks, the Sõrve landscape reserve in Harku rural municipality, Tuhala and Nabala areas, you can talk about surrounding rural municipalities. So it's not like all the parishes have the same position as you here. you have stated that the nature reserve is something that is not in the interests of the local government. On the contrary, municipalities understand very well that the higher the quality of their living environment, the better the lives of people there. So there's no reason to do that. Indeed, many municipalities themselves have been the initiators of the formation of protected areas or very strong supporters.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U27	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Is it true that the government plans to exempt part of the state institutions from paying land tax for the following year? And if so, how do you compensate the local government for the loss of income?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U29	I have to say that because of poor acoustics, or for some other reason, this question did not make sense. Maybe it's possible to repeat the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U30	Please repeat!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U31	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Is it true that next year, the Government of the Republic plans to exempt part of the state institutions from paying land tax? If so, how will the loss of income be compensated for by local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U32	Thank you. The changes in the land tax and the compensation to the municipalities in the following year relate in particular to the increase in the percentage of income tax received by the municipalities. You will certainly be able to ask the Minister of Finance more specifically about this. This is a government decision and a plan to increase the percentage of income tax received by municipalities next year. In the same way that land under the municipal authorities is exempt from land tax, the government does indeed have a plan to exempt land under public authorities from land tax. On the compensation side, however, I will say once again: the increase in the percentage of income tax received by municipalities is the result of which the municipal income base will increase next year and the revenue side of the budget will grow.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U33	Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U34	The next question is from my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U35	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Estonia's most important mineral assets - oil shale - extracted and used four companies as raw material or fuel last year: Eesti Energia, Viru Keemia Grupp, Kiviõli Chemical Industry and Kunda Nordic Cement. At the same time, they paid the state a total resource tax of just over EUR 20 million. However, the profits of these companies exceeded EUR 200 million last year. § 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that natural resources are national wealth. What is your position as head of government on the fairness of oil shale's resource tax? Aren't we giving away our national wealth too cheap?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U36	Thank you, good questioner! I feel like you're giving it away too cheap. The production of electricity from oil shale and oil shale also generate a great deal of pollutants, by-products that damage the environment. Therefore, it seems to me that the current resource charge is not enough to compensate for the damage caused to the environment. However, increasing resource charges is probably not the only possible solution. If all users of the resource have the same increase in the fee for using the resource, this may lead to losses in some activities, i.e. the exclusion of certain activities at all. Oil shale is mainly used for two purposes: producing electricity (Estonian Energia is almost the only player here) as well as producing oil. Oil production is a very good profit margin, electricity production is not such a good profit margin. It can even be argued that, under certain conditions, electricity generation can even be loss-making if all environmental damage is taken into account. In the world, users of a resource are not usually taxed with just one tax. We also have a proposal in the government to introduce a royalty tax on oil production that depends on the price of energy on the world market.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U37	Please, Mr Kaljuvee, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U38	Thank you, Madam Chairman. An increase in teachers' salaries could come from the oil shale. I calculated last year that if we increased by two euros a tonne of oil shale's resource tax, 20 million times two, it would make 40 million euros like a pound. It takes 38 million to pay the teachers. It would be a very nice constitutional thing, and teachers would get the pay they want, they would be in a good mood, and children would have happy teachers. Do you think it's a very stupid idea to raise a two-euro tax and get such a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U39	Thank you. No, I don't think that's a very stupid idea, but once again, I think that we should take a different approach or at least analyse the possibility of a different approach to taxation of the use of oil shale when it comes to the production of electricity and, secondly, when it comes to the production of oil shale oil. The production of shale oil is several times more profitable than the production of electricity. If, in the strategic interest, we have essentially forced Eesti Energia to invest in oil shale energy and, at the same time, we are making the production of oil shale electricity loss-making with tax policy, then we are not acting as good owners. For example, while Eesti Energia operates in Jordan, the fee for using the resource in Jordan for 44 years is also linked to the world market price of fuel oils. If there is a war going on somewhere, and thus, for example, fuel prices are rising exponentially, this is not only a profit for the company, but a profit is also shared with the country where the production takes place. I would not exclude the possibility of using different tax rates, different taxes, for different producers in Estonia. Raising teachers' salaries is planned by the Government of the Republic anyway, which is why it seems like an overly simple solution that we are adding two euros to a ton and that the problem of teachers' pay has been solved. But we also have rescue officers, we have police officers, and they want to pay too. What kind of resource do we attach to them? Sand, gravel, any other natural resource for every profession, for every living area, your own resource? This is not, in my opinion, a very good approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U40	Please, Mr Kaljuvee, the second point to clarify.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U41	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, I like that you want to think about it. But I would remind you that you were talking here about profits that these companies made more than 200 million profits, and adding two euros would be 38 million. Given the profitability of these companies, they don't even know the two euros, they almost don't feel it, they'll swallow it. In my opinion, it would still be very good if national wealth, oil shale, were to become smart, in the sense that we would pay teachers in one move. The government doesn't have to worry, Aaviksoo doesn't have to think about where to take away, and so on. There's this rock in the ground that's going to be taken out anyway, we're going to put two euros on it, and we're going to get that good result. Norway, for example, taxes this way. I'd like to give you more than my thoughts on this subject...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U42	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U43	Do you promise to take a serious look at this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U44	Thank you. Of course I will allow your proposals to be seriously reviewed. But it is not quite the case that if we add two euros to the resource fee on oil shale, all entrepreneurs, all producers, including Eesti Energia, are immediately happy about it and hardly notice this trivial two euros. They will probably notice, and probably this two euros will be noticed by all electricity consumers. As has already been said, the production of electricity is currently at a profit-to-loss point, and if it were to be added to the resource charge and assumed that the price of electricity would remain the same, the profit would become a loss. This two-euro may tip the weight on one side or the other. But I think that oil production should be more taxed because oil production is a burden on the environment. Firstly, people's resources are exploited at very low prices, next comes residues, thirdly emissions of various pollutants into the atmosphere and the environment. So the damage to the environment is not compensated by the current resource charge. Once, a few years ago, however, the situation has not changed very much so far, the previous Minister for the Environment said that environmental charges compensate only a tenth of the actual damage to the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U45	We will now proceed with the issues registered on the ground. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister, thank you first for your substantive answers. Did I get it right that you agree that our national wealth resource tax is too low and could be increased in terms of oil production? If Mr Kaljuvee offered two euros for the whole sector, then in the case of oil production, it could be four euros and we could also achieve the objectives. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U47	Thank you. Yes, you understand me correctly, the Government of the Republic is seriously discussing the issue of increasing resource charges. I also do not completely exclude the additional taxation of oil shale resources used for the production of electricity, because the damage to the environment there is also greater than the compensation for the resource charge received. Let us think of the hundreds of millions of kroons that we have spent, even from European Union taxpayers' money, to repair the damage caused to the environment, and let us compare it with the amounts from resource charges. This comparison is very one-sided and speaks of the fact that the anonymous taxpayer has now had to pay more than the resource charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U48	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Do you not think that the reason why an increase in the resource charge is proposed is primarily that it will be easier to administer in the future than a possible oil tax? If I am not mistaken, these same oil industries are producing hundreds and hundreds of oil stamps, which are different in terms of profitability and price, there would be perhaps more complicated administration. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U50	Of course, I agree that different taxation on oil production is more complicated than taxation on electricity production. But I'm also gonna leave you with a chance to hesitate and doubt. A simple taxation system can rule out the production of oil shale electricity at all, and that is not what we want. What we both obviously agree on is that a thorough analysis must be carried out before tax rulings are made. Only on the basis of the analysis can such weighty decisions be made, so that the environment can be achieved and the profitability of electricity production can also be maintained if the production is based on the burning of oil shale.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U51	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U52	Ladies and gentlemen, who now have faster fingers, you can ask questions to all ministers and also to the Prime Minister. Please tell me, starting with the question to whom the question is addressed. Let's start with my colleague Kajar Lember.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U53	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister. It was discussed here before about the exemption of land under nature conservation and its compensation to the municipalities. Your coalition partner, however, has populistly protected the homes, and there the land tax also disappears. In order to compensate for this, a system has been proposed for local governments to recover a piece of income tax, i.e. the proportion received by the local government will increase by 0.17%. Do you consider this scheme reasonable and fair to local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U54	Thank you. I consider it reasonable and also fair. This part of the land tax, which after the land under house purchase has been granted a tax exemption, is not received by the municipality, is very well correlated, very strongly, by local authorities, with the share of personal income tax paid to the municipality and no particular, very large deviations from this form of compensation arise. True, there is no form of compensation in which there are no losers at all. But in the case of increasing the share of personal income tax received by local governments, there are more than 10 losers, perhaps 20 times less than the winners. This is therefore a relatively fair way of compensating.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U55	Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President. My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and is extremely trivial. I am not so much guided by the information needs of myself as a member of the Riigikogu, but by the fact that we are also watched by television viewers. It would certainly be good for us to know where we are now, regarding the age-old question that there is no money and there is no money. What is the state of economic growth? What is the tax receipts? Where are we now? What is the good news and the bad news?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U57	What we know is quite delightful. But what we don't know is that we don't know, or that relative ignorance prevails in making predictions. Tax receipts have been very good for the first three months. I do not yet have the data for the fourth month, but it can be said that there are no turning points towards significant deterioration. On the basis of three months, tax receipts are best for the last five years, compared to the percentage of revenue in the budget as expected during the year. According to this, optimistic predictions for the future could also be made. However, our main export partners have started to develop more slowly, these forecasts have been curtailed. It is true that, in the case of Finland, the forecast was even increased from 0.4 to 0.8%, but it is not a special economic growth of any kind. Truth be told, it doesn't really matter whether it's 0.4 or 0.8. So caution is prevalent in making forecasts not only in Estonia but also everywhere else in Europe. In many parts of Europe, cuts in budgets are relatively bad, the alignment of costs and revenues has led to a recession, has led to an increase in unemployment and therefore there is not much optimism. According to the European Central Bank, the fourth quarter of last year was very bad, but the second half of December got better and the first half of this year has added signs of improvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U58	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U59	Thank you, good manager. I have a question for the Minister of the Environment. For years, waves have raised a subject. Estonia and the eyes of the Estonian people, when they travel around, rhymes ghost castles: empty standing tables, empty old farm centres, etc. When Raivo Järvi asked where we are now, I ask exactly the same question: where are we with this problem? I understand this is private property, and so on. Is there any way that this hall could help, because over the years, it's becoming more and more obvious to us and our guests?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U60	Thank you. I very much agree that this is a problem and may also pose a risk to groundwater, but it will certainly pollute the landscape. In order to move forward with this problem a little more forcefully or faster, the Environmental Investment Centre has launched a new programme from which support can be requested to dismantle these ghost castles. Municipalities, companies and non-profit institutions may apply for them. If one of those ghost castles is to be demolished, the owner's consent and the municipality's assessment that it is really landscape pollution in this area and perhaps pollution that poses a risk to groundwater must certainly be the owner's consent. The first round is now coming to an end, with over 50 applications submitted. So this opportunity was used very actively. I myself, frankly, was a bit skeptical at first that how quickly municipalities and companies can take advantage of this opportunity, but there is a great interest in cooperating and dismantling these horrible ghost castles. In particular, it is either old lobbyists left in the Soviet army or old collective farms, which are very lost and really look ugly. There are some examples where even large amounts of fertiliser have been discovered inside the old collective farm building, so these are quite dangerous and ugly examples. But I'm glad this scrapping program has started.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U61	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U62	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! My question would perhaps be more to the Minister for Economic Affairs, but since he is not in Question Time today, I will ask you. The Economic Commission has repeatedly dealt with problems and developments in the Port of Tallinn, we have been exposed to things and so on, but things are not moving. I recently asked the port managers what the question was. They said that the IRL had to brake these things in Viimsi, those were the words of the harbor leader. Have there been any signals in the government that Viimsi municipality doesn't want? It was the particular party that had to resist these developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U63	Thank you. Unfortunately, I did not understand the subject of the question. I believe that if the municipality of Viimsi is really slowing down somewhere, then the municipality, the municipality government, is based on the interests of the rural municipalities. It is entirely natural that the local government protects the interests of the residents and that the company that operates in the territory of that municipality seeks, in particular, higher profits, higher turnovers which ultimately lead to commercial profits. I think they'll come to an agreement sometime. Typically, good transactions occur when both the local government and the company are interested in doing business. If each other's interests are taken into account, good results will be obtained.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U64	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U65	Thank you, manager. The question is about the amount of European subsidies to the Minister for Agriculture. With what step do we approach the old members? Is the next financial perspective brighter for our farmers, or do we still have to sweat in the vicinity of 40-50%? Are these things on the ground, can you say some kind of noise and percentages?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U66	Thank you. What this step is actually going to be is now very difficult to predict. We know what step the European Commission has proposed to us. While we now have direct payments for agriculture at 45% of the average level in the European Union, we should move forward to 58% in the next period. This is a proposal from the European Commission that does not satisfy us. At the same time, the European Commission has said that their aim is, in fact, to take such a long step at last that no Member State would have subsidies less than 90%, which is reasonable and which is supported by the Estonian Government. Discussions and disputes are currently taking place to take a longer step than the 58% milestone in the next period. We want to go to 90% now. If it turns out to be real, I don't know how to say it today. But I'm still an optimist, and I think we're going beyond 58%. I very much hope that, in the end, subsidies will be treated more quickly and the redistribution will take place more forcefully than the European Commission has initially proposed. However, I would like to say that this Commission offer, too, is not a step backwards, as the media has often perhaps been impressed, because we are dissatisfied with it. No, this is not going backwards, because when we joined the European Union, we started from a level of 25%. So reaching 60% is quite a step forward. I am absolutely sure that equal levels of support will come anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U67	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U68	Thank you. My question is for the Minister of the Environment, Mrs. Pentus. This is, in fact, the follow-up to the question of my colleague, Mrs Grief. Can cities also apply for money to demolish faceless buildings?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U69	Thank you. Still can, municipalities, that means both rural municipalities and cities. At first, we have really limited the number of supported objects to the fact that it should be either a former industrial building or a former military building. It's not really like there's just a house somewhere that's been let out of hand, broken down or in ruins. It is not possible for the municipality to ask for support for this purpose under the current programme. The aim is to clean otherwise very beautiful landscapes, which are sometimes damaged by such ugly ghost castles, to clear Estonia. But if on the territory of a city, either such an old industrial building, an old collective farm building or a decomposed lobbyist is really located, then yes, cities can also apply for support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U70	One more question from Tarmo Leinammell.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U71	A thousand thanks, good manager. Again, the question to the Minister for Agriculture: is there an analysis of the percentage distribution to which the farmer spends this euro payment? Does it go directly to production, to the acquisition of technology, or to real estate? If support rises to 90%, what will farmers do with this pile of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U72	Thank you. Broadly speaking, agricultural payments are divided into two. There are direct payments which are per hectare and per livestock unit and which are actually completely free for farmers. That's where we don't have a very thorough analysis, and we can't have it. The picture is probably very letters: who will cover their running costs, who will make investments as needed. The second part of the support is rural development programme support for farmers, which is clearly investment aid. They are intended solely for investments in buildings and structures, technology and technology. There are very specific criteria, there are different measures for target groups. This part will go to full investment. Broadly speaking, two thirds of the money received by the farmer is direct aid, i.e. so-called free money, and one third is targeted investment grants. I would point out once again that the freedom to use direct payments does not mean that there is no investment there. This money is also being invested by farmers, but to what extent, I cannot say.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U73	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U74	Thank you, Mr President. My question is to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister! We have already talked repeatedly in this Chamber this year about the European Financial Stability Facility, about the provision of guarantees, about the allocation of money to Greek aid packages, etc. However, we do have some insight into this, but we are far from being informed of all the activities at which the draft European Stability Mechanism is being prepared. However, all these drafts must also be brought to the Riigikogu so that we can essentially discuss them and make decisions. My question is: how far are these preparations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U75	Thank you. The preparations are ongoing, but we all know that the Chancellor of Justice has challenged the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism in the Supreme Court and the public hearing of the Supreme Court will take place on 8 May. The Chancellor of Justice does not dispute Estonia's accession to the European Stability Mechanism, but the Chancellor of Justice doubts whether the decision-making by qualified majority provided for in the European Stability Mechanism on matters requiring urgent decision-making is in accordance with our constitution. Before this dispute is avoided, it is unreasonable to proceed to this Riigikogu in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism. Let's wait! In itself, the Chancellor of Justice does what the Chancellor of Justice has to do. If he doubts whether an international treaty or legislation is compatible with the Constitution, he must express his suspicion with a loud and clear voice. That is what the Chancellor of Justice has done now. For me, Estonia's participation in the European Stability Mechanism is crucial. Over the last 20 years, Estonia has had one very big foreign policy objective and can be very simple: never again alone. Over the last 20 years, Estonia has joined all international organisations, international institutions with which we have dreamed of joining, and we should not lightly change our foreign policy orientation and turn to isolation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U76	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U77	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture that farmers have asked for. We have already talked about agricultural subsidies here. However, since there are two sides to the question asked by the farmers, I am asking the question exactly as it has been asked to ask: when could Estonia end the situation where the excise duty on blue diesel used in agriculture is the highest in the European Union, but at the same time the lowest in subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U78	Thank you. Neither of your arguments is true. Estonia's subsidies are not the lowest in the European Union; our southern neighbours have lower direct payments. Our excise duty is not the highest either, but in five or six European countries, the excise duty on specially labelled fuel for farmers is higher. But it is true that we are one of the most recent levels of subsidies and one of the first levels of excise duty. When will this end? Support has already been mentioned here, and I very much hope that in the next period we will take an important step towards more equal support, although the definition of these equal subsidies and what larger direct payments mean for Estonia is a complex issue in itself. This certainly includes not only positive for farmers, but there are many risks and also risks. But we're not gonna be able to unravel that in here in two minutes. As far as specially labelled fuel is concerned, the government is currently working to switch from the painting of specially labelled fuel to compensation, just as it was in a few or three years ago. We are looking for other solutions and, in the course of this, we will also discuss the amount of the benefit. That's all I can answer right now. But I think that this will not happen from 1 January 2013, but in the distant future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U79	Please, Mr Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U80	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister! We met today in the Riigikogu with the regional LNG terminal and the task force to prepare the selection of its location, the European Commission's working group. One such important question was raised: how will Estonia see the role of gas in energy and electricity production in the future? As we know, we have already decided to build one new oil shale boiler, and there is another decision on the table that we will or will not make. What, in your opinion, could be the role of gas in electricity production if we are independent of Russian gas?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U81	Thank you. Today, natural gas accounts for around 10% of our primary energy balance. As long as we depend only on one gas supplier, it is not foreseen that the share of natural gas in the primary energy balance will increase. However, if the number of suppliers increases, a certain price decrease or at least a loss of the monopoly price can also be expected and this could lead to greater use of natural gas. The use of gas in Estonian households and Estonian entrepreneurship does not wait for the decision of the Government of the Republic. Whether or not an energy source is economically viable depends primarily on price, demand and supply. This confirms once again that if the number of suppliers increases, if LNG can also be delivered to Estonia, the share of gas in our energy balance will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U82	Please, colleague Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U83	Good Minister of the Environment! Spring has already broken through, and summer is approaching with a terrible rush, everything is blooming all around. Is the Government of the Republic, your personal and Estonian environment as a whole ready for adoption of spring and summer?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U84	Chairman of the Committee on the Environment! The Government of the Republic can confirm that all necessary preparations have been made and are being prepared in cooperation with the Committee of the Environment of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U85	Excellent! One last question. Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U86	Thank you, Madam President. I have a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the question concerns the Estonian Internet Foundation. Last week, there was a big article in the Estonian Express about this foundation, and your party partner, Mr Astok, has commented quite critically on this institution and its leader. He even said that an impossible person had come to the head of the Internet foundation. How do you comment on what's been going on there lately? We've been talking to you in this room about this, but I think things have gotten worse since then, not better. What is your opinion that should be done to improve the reputation of the Estonian Internet Foundation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U87	Thank you. I don't know how to judge a person's inability or ability. However, yes, I admit that the dissatisfaction with the Estonian Internet Foundation has been going on for a long time, and this dissatisfaction has been quite broad. I, too, am not pleased with the news about what this foundation has allegedly acquired. It seems to me that these generators and everything else are not necessarily necessary. Therefore, it seems to me that the foundation could seriously review the justification of domain fees. For some time, at least over the last year, we have shared the view that more transparency, more public administration would only benefit this foundation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U88	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, our Question Time is over. Thank you for asking the questions and thank you for your answers to the members of the government. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U89	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 13th working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, first of all, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U90	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of its consensual decision, the Committee of Culture initiates the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of renowned experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U91	Thank you. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U92	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We, eight members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu, have an inquiry to Minister Hanno Pevkur about problems with the health information system. Indeed, already in 2008, the first applications of the health information system, the digital medical history, were launched to improve the quality of care and the well-being of patients. As soon as the system came into operation, it turned out there were problems. In fact, the patient cannot see how and who has looked at his data. It is now clear that digital history has not increased the quality of treatment and has not increased patient satisfaction. Hospital software does not connect to the health information system and often you have to go to another doctor for consultation, just print out the information on paper and carry your data with you. Hospitals also receive data from the central database with great delay. When we are talking about digital history and the digital era here, printing and carrying data on paper is a complete nonsense! And in this connection, we have four questions for the Minister, to which I am sure the good officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, whom I respect very much, will be able to draw up very beautiful answers. But when it comes to answering questions, we'll ask for more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U93	Thank you. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Five members of the Riigikogu in Inara Luis, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laane, Deniss Borodich and Rainer Vakra have made an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The content of the enquiry is border trade. Two years ago, in this very chair, the Prime Minister answered a question about the fuel business on the Estonian-Russian border. He concluded his answer with this sentence: 'As a whole, border trade is quite a common phenomenon elsewhere in the European Union. It is not possible to complete it, and certainly it is not reasonable. " However, border trade is currently a problem for the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic. The Ministry of Finance is looking for ways to limit the import of motor fuel from Russia and thus also tax evasion. The press has talked about the sums that are not due to the Estonian state, and they have been talking about 20 to 60 million euros a year. However, we must recognise that the Government of the Republic has done much to increase this distinction, after all, has repeatedly raised excise duties. As a result, we have five questions for the Prime Minister, to which both the Alliance of Democrats and, I believe, many other members of the Riigikogu want answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U95	Thank you. Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U96	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with nine members of the Estonian Central Party Group, we will submit an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns what is happening at the Estonian Internet Foundation. In recent weeks, the Estonian Internet Foundation has had rather alarming times. Last week Eesti Ekspress wrote that the Estonian Internet Foundation is brewing and tearing, employees leaving, bosses fighting and spending raises questions. A number of conflicts and scandals have been sent to this institution in the past. According to information published in the press, the Estonian Internet Community, which brings together Estonian Internet users, has considered it necessary to immediately resign the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Internet Foundation Marek-Andres Kauts, as the foundation has seriously violated the promise of cost-based management given to its domain owners. Based on this and on the other facts that we have in this inquiry, we would like to ask the Minister what he thinks of all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U97	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted one draft decision and three inquiries. If the draft decision complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. And if inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. I'll give you the following messages. First of all, the Board of the Riigikogu has approved the resignation of a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs of Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, and his membership of the National Defence Committee. Secondly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has approved the departure of a member of the Riigikogu from the seat of the National Defence Committee of Tõnis Palts and his membership of the Economic Commission. And now for the procedure. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the matrimonial property register law, the notary's remuneration law and the Civil Status Acts Act, initiated on 30 April, the leading committee of the Legal Affairs Committee; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Law on the Amendment of the Securities Market Act, initiated on 30 April, Senior Committee on Finance; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Member States of the European Union) and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union initiated on 30 April 2004; a Draft Social Tax Act, initiated on 30 April, and related amendments to other laws, Leading Commission, Social Affairs Committee; Fifth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia and other related laws, initiated on 30 April, commission of the Committee on Culture; 6th, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the medicine law, initiated on 30 April, by the commission of the Social Affairs Committee; seventhly, by the National Defence Commission. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations Observation Mission in Syria," presented on 30 April, is a leading committee of the National Defence Committee; the eighth, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. A draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee', presented on 30 April, was presented. The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee" submitted by the Monetary Committee is s. a 7 May at 11 a.m. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir and the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. There were 87 delegates registered as present, 14 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U98	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item of the agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Construction Act, the Housing Cooperatives Act, the Housing Property Act and the Building Cooperatives Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The political groups want to negotiate. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of the Olga Sõitnik.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The objectives of this bill are undoubtedly very important. Of course, we must comply with the requirements of the European Union's Energy Efficiency Directive, i.e. contribute to improving the efficiency of energy use in buildings by allowing easier access to information for users of existing buildings on energy consumption and possible energy saving measures for buildings, as well as applying the right principles when designing new buildings in Estonia in order to shape the energy consumption components of buildings. Unfortunately, the Estonian Centre Party cannot support this bill, for one simple reason. This bill again imposes additional obligations on local authorities without state funding. Under the new directive, the energy label must be placed in a visible place for visitors in buildings of which the public or local authority has more than 500 m2 of useful space. Thus, local authorities incur specific additional costs for buildings with a useful surface area between 500 and 1000 m2 and which are owned by the local government. At this meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, where this draft and the amendments to it were discussed, the question arose of the number of buildings in local governments with a useful surface of 500-1000 m2. The representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications could not respond immediately, but they did a small survey. 109 of 225 municipalities in Estonia replied to the questionnaire and 96 of them, or 88%, had such buildings, with three municipalities having more than 20 such buildings. According to the current construction law, the energy label must also be placed in a visible position for visitors in buildings with useful surfaces of over 1000 square metres associated with the gathering of large crowds. However, if you look at how many local authorities have complied with this requirement for several years, it turns out that 57.4% of local governments have not yet done so and 34.25% have partially done so. Unfortunately, the survey does not reveal the reasons why local governments have not complied with this requirement. Perhaps the reason is the lack of administrative capacity of local authorities or simply lack of knowledge of this obligation is not reported. But one reason may be that there are extra costs. Of course, the EUR 200 that must be proposed for one energy label is not a very large amount. But 200 euros today, 200 euros tomorrow, this is how, by the end of the year, the fairly round amount that the local government will have to pay for the tasks entrusted to it by the state, which should be financed from the state budget. The Centre Party Group proposed that the state would cover the costs of ordering an energy label from the state budget to local authorities, but, unfortunately, neither the Commission nor the large hall supported this amendment. Therefore, although this is a necessary bill, the Central Party Group cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U100	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act 156 amending the Construction Act, the Housing Cooperatives Act, the Housing Ownership Act and the Building Cooperatives Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 16 against and 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U101	We begin the third reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic in 187. Please vote! 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U102	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic 182. Please vote! 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U103	We will begin the third reading of the Bill 147 of Amendment to the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote draft law 147 amending the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U104	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on ratification of the European Social Charter initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mrs Maret Maripuu, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the Act on the ratification of the revised and improved European Social Charter initiated by the Government of the Republic was completed on 21 March 2012. By the deadline for tabling amendments...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U106	Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U107	... was determined by s. a 4 April at 6 p.m. No amendments were tabled within this deadline. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed bill 177 again on 17 April, when the text of the draft second reading was approved. At the meeting of the Social Committee on 17 April, on the basis of procedural decisions, the Management Board of the Riigikogu was invited to place the draft on the agenda for the second reading of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 2 May. The Social Committee's proposal has been improved and improved by completing the second reading of the draft law amending the European Social Charter ratification law, by putting the draft to a final vote and by adopting it as a law. These decisions had the unanimous approval of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U108	Thank you. You have questions too. Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a purely technical question. Let me get this straight. The text at first and second reading of this bill is the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U110	These are only linguistic clarifications proposed by the language editor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U111	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments, and we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the law on ratification of the European Social Charter, which was initiated and supplemented by the Government of the Republic, 177. Please vote! I'm sorry, I'm interrupting the vote! The manager takes a five-minute break. We'll get back to work at 2.28 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U112	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for the length of our holidays. Let's do the presence check first. 71 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 30. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will again put to the final vote the draft law amending the law on ratification of the European Social Charter, which was initiated and supplemented by the Government of the Republic, 177. Please vote! 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U113	We will begin the second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. I would like to ask Mr Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U114	Madam President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the Act 189 on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia was completed on 21 March this year. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 6 p.m. on 4 April. No amendments were tabled within this deadline. The Committee on Social Affairs reconvened the draft law for 189 discussions on 17 April, when the text of the draft was approved at second reading. On the basis of the procedural decisions taken during the sitting, the Riigikogu Board was invited to put this draft on the agenda for the second reading of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 2 May. The proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs is to conclude the second reading of the draft, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U115	Thank you very much, Mr Rein Aidma. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There were no amendments, and we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final draft Act 189 on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Please vote! 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U116	The next item is the second reading of Draft Act 201 on the ratification of the amendments to Articles 1 and 18 of the Treaty establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Sester, from the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act on the ratification of the amendments to Articles 1 and 18 of the Treaty establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, initiated by the Government of the Republic, bearing the number 201, was on the agenda of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 30 April this year. In short, once again, the objectives of the draft. The purpose of the draft is to approve amendments to the articles of the Bank's Treaty, which will allow the Bank's mandate to be extended in the countries of the southern and eastern Mediterranean, i.e. Egypt, Jordan, Libya and Tunisia. The second set of amendments is that special funds intended to meet the objectives of the EBRD will be allowed to be used in beneficiary countries and potential beneficiary countries. No amendments were received. The Commission adopted procedural decisions on the draft. The decision was to finish the second reading. This decision was made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U118	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. As no amendments were tabled, we will go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on the draft Act 201 on the ratification of the amendments to Articles 1 and 18 of the Treaty establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U119	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act 207 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion. Mr Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U120	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Finance Committee discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion on 30 April. The deadline for amendments was 25 April and no proposals were received. As you will remember at first reading, this law ratifies the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion, which encourages investment, ensures equal treatment of persons and eliminates double taxation, which may arise as a result of the combined effect of the laws of two countries. It will also help prevent tax fraud. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for second reading today, that the second reading be closed and that the draft be put to the final vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U121	Thank you very much, Mr Urve Tiidus. There are no questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments either, so let us go to the final vote. I will put to the final vote the draft Act 207 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India. Please vote! 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U122	We begin by reading the second reading of the University Act, the Law of the University of Applied Sciences and the Act amending other laws, which has not been proclaimed by the President of the Republic. I would like to ask my colleague Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U123	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First, a little memory of the state of affairs and then, specifically, of the amendments. This bill, number 89, was launched by the Government of the Republic on 12 September last year. The first reading took place in plenary on 17 and 22 November, the second reading on 25 January this year, and the draft was adopted by law on 9 February. However, the President of the Republic failed to declare the law amending the university law, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws by decision of 27 February. In the Committee on Culture, we discussed the President's decision on 5 March; the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did so on 6 March. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we had asked Ülle Madise, Legal Adviser to the President of the Republic, who presented the president's views. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister for Education and Science, who had submitted written observations on the President's decision, also attended the meeting. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Culture decided to support the non-acceptance of the law in its unaltered state, which was also supported by the Assembly. On the proposal of the Committee on Culture, the Management Board of the Riigikogu set a deadline of 10 working days for amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, You have been distributed the text of the second reading of the draft, the explanatory memorandum to it, as well as the list of amendments. There are 12 amendments in total. They were received from the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party, as well as proposals from the Estonian Student Association, Tallinn University of Technology and Professor Rein Müllerson of Tallinn University. The Committee on Culture prepared for a second reading of the Act in its six sessions, attended by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research. The Committee on Culture also consulted the Rectors of the University of Applied Sciences and the Council of Rectors, and we also asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to carry out further analysis. The Committee on Culture took the following procedural decisions: On 17 April, the Committee on Culture decided to renegotiate this draft and to propose that it be sent to second reading on the agenda of the plenary session by 2 May and that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is closed, 89 UA could be designated for the third reading by 10 May and then adopted as a law. To make it easier to monitor, we have divided the amendments into both conceptual and formal chapters. This is also the way the text is structured in the explanatory memorandum. The first block concerns the completion of the curriculum during academic leave. The second block concerns the student's right to study without reimbursement of study costs, the third to grant operating grants to universities and the fourth to study grants. Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 9 refer to the restriction imposed on students to complete the curriculum while on academic leave. The Commission has received the support of the Committee on Culture's own proposal, which is included in the list of proposals No 3: to amend the provisions of the Act on the application of the regulation of academic leave, in accordance with point 2 of the President's decision. In particular, the President of the Republic has concluded that the current regulation on academic leave, which will apply to students who have taken academic leave since 1 January 2013, is not constitutional. The Riigikogu based its procedure on the principle that the student's legitimate expectation of fulfilling the curriculum on academic leave arises when he has begun to exercise the right to take academic leave. Thus, if a student has a real need, he or she has a legitimate basis to wait and hope that if he or she wants to take a vacation, this regulation will apply. If this regulation has changed during his studio, which could actually happen according to this bill, then nothing is broken. The right to academic leave and this arrangement will still arise when he begins to exercise that right. Now, the Committee on Culture has formulated an amendment which says that the limitation on the completion of the curriculum will apply to academic leave from 2013/2014. year of study and previous matriculation for students since 2016/2017. the academic year. The principle is that a student must know from the outset that there is a system that applies and that it cannot change anywhere in the meantime when starting a curriculum at a university of applied sciences or a university of public law. It is important for the student to know from the outset that if she is matriculated and she starts studying, what is the academic holiday procedure? Of course, it must now be noted that those students who have previously been matriculated when this law enters into force cannot really, for the rest of their lives, be expected that this law will apply to them as they did when they entered university. For previously matriculated students, the new academic leave regime will apply from the academic year 2016/2017. The Committee on Culture rejected proposal No 1 from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and proposals No 2 and No 9 from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, whose proposal was to leave the arrangements for participation of students on academic leave to the institutions to decide. The self-regulation capacity of institutions was considered sufficient to ensure effective learning. In the course of the Commission's discussions, I refreshed your memory of such views. This proposal was not supported as the prohibition of participation in studies during academic leave has been relaxed in the course of the draft procedure anyway. For example, students have the right to listen to lectures. Nor shall the prohibition on completing the curriculum during academic leave apply to medium, severe or profoundly disabled persons, parents or guardians of a child under three years of age or of a disabled child, as well as students on academic leave in connection with military service. Now, in Amendments 4 to 8 relating to the student's right to study without reimbursement of study costs. The main problem here was that the president also referred to when the student's right to reimbursement of study costs arises. Let me remind you that we have taken the view that the calculation of the completion of the curriculum and the reimbursement of study costs is per semester, based on a cumulative calculation across all semesters. However, the President considered that it was not clear when the right to reimbursement would arise at the end of the nominal period of study, for example? While the Commission and the legislator in general had clearly been guided by the term "semester," which is enshrined in the law, we found that it must be clearly stated that by the beginning of each semester the curriculum must be completed and, if not, the right to partial reimbursement of study costs arises. In the same way, the power of the Government of the Republic is more precisely defined in terms of how the ceilings are set and what circumstances must be taken into account. For example, when it comes to the reimbursement of tuition fees for students who study part-time, it is the competence of the Board of Educational Institutions and not the government. The Committee on Culture rejected proposals No 5 of the Estonian Centre Party Group and proposals No 6 and 8 of the Social Democratic Party Group, which were not supported by the Ministry of Education and Research. Their content was to alleviate the requirement to complete the curriculum, promising to complete 54 credits in the academic year of the curriculum. Such reliefs were offered by others. The biggest dispute, which also took quite a while, went over Amendments 10 and 12 on the allocation of operating grants to universities. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture is proposal No 11: to amend the regulation on the allocation of operating grants on the basis of the decision of the President of the Republic. There was a major dispute that must be regulated at the level of a government regulation and how precisely the subject of operating grants must be formulated in this very law. The position of the President of the Republic was that if the autonomy of the university was to be limited, it would, in principle, be possible only by law. If it is to be feared that the government will offer universities such financial conditions during the negotiation of performance contracts or not offer them in such a way as to provide sufficient assurance, the finances of universities, and hence their academic freedom, will be put at risk of university autonomy. In any case, if this is to be done, it must be more clearly stated in the law. For example, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister for Education and Science, pointed out that, in fact, the autonomy of our public universities is even very high, especially in the area of financial self-determination, so that this subject of restraint has somehow risen unduly. However, in any case, the Committee on Culture considered it justified to amend the regulation on the financing of higher education and to delete the part of the contested mandate. This particular place, which gave the Government of the Republic the power to establish more precise terms and conditions for determining the amount of operating aid, should be deleted, and I would like to stress now that more precise conditions and procedures are in place. According to our amendment, the Government of the Republic can only be empowered to clarify the definitions and organisational issues of the indicators mentioned in the Act. The new wording provides the shares that the Ministry of Education and Research must base on the distribution of the budgetary resources for conducting the entire higher education course. However, these principles do not apply to operating grants for a specific educational institution. However, in general terms, the proportion of the scope, quality and performance indicators involved in the conduct of the studies is 70-75% and the proportion of supporting activities related to the conduct of the studies relevant to the state is 25-30%. You will all see more specifically both the amendments and the legislative text that are taken into account in one section or another. The Committee on Culture failed to take into account proposals 10 and 12 from the Social Democratic Party Group so that funds allocated to universities from the state budget would be given a clearer breakdown, which would go specifically to operating grants, which would be earmarked for specific allocations. An important part of the proposal was that all the amounts allocated to public universities should be clearly distinguished in the state budget each year. These proposals were not supported by the Committee on Culture. One important reason is that administrative contracts are concluded with universities after the adoption of the annual state budget in the Riigikogu. Otherwise, it would be impossible to guarantee the performance of the contractual obligations. There were suggestions, as I said, also from Tallinn University of Technology and the Association of Estonian Student Unions. I will introduce here the proposals of the Estonian Student Union, although they were quite superficially worded. The most important proposal was to process and adopt both this law and the law on education grants at the same time. However, the Committee on Culture did not consider it necessary to adopt the draft at the same time. We have also stressed in the past that it is sufficient for us to address them in the same context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U124	Thank you very much, my colleague Urmas Klaas! Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U125	Dear Mr. Glass! The Socialist Group proposed that in draft performance contracts with higher education institutions, the amounts agreed to finance each school, together with the state budget law, be approved by the Riigikogu. As you said, the Committee on Culture did not support this amendment primarily because administrative contracts are concluded with universities after the adoption of the annual state budget law in the Riigikogu. Why don't you explain the reasoning? My logic is that an evil herd would be in exactly the opposite situation if these contracts were concluded before the state budget was adopted. If they were to be concluded afterwards, what about it? After that, the draft contract would be adjusted according to the wishes of the Riigikogu and the contract would then be signed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U126	You will remember very well the discussions that were in the Commission on this subject. One of the problems that arose, and to which I referred, maybe not clearly enough, is the rigidity of the system. We know that the state budget negotiations and preparations, the planning of sums, are going on for a longer period. I'm sure it'll take some time. And secondly, the monitoring of performance contracts will certainly improve, like putting them on the same schedule would be quite difficult, to which the Ministry of Education and Research referred on several occasions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U127	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U128	I'm sorry, but I'll continue on the same subject. For me, this is a completely new point of state law in terms of funding. We resent the fact that money can only be allocated to someone after the money has been allocated to him. Where's the mistake here? What's wrong with that? How can money be promised to anyone sooner if the state budget is not adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U129	It is certainly possible to allow this when the state budget has indeed been adopted. Of course, the amounts have not been fixed before and cannot be distributed unless the Riigikogu has made its decision. But this is where all the pre-negotiations for the conclusion of the agreement and also the pre-negotiations for the design of the state budget come into play. We know that in the course of these universities too, there are very clear indications. But the negotiation process is really long. Perhaps formally they will come to an end when the whole legislative basis exists, but the preparatory work is long. According to my understanding, universities themselves want it not to be established after the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U130	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U131	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In your comprehensive report, you mentioned that the Commission held six meetings. Here's my question. When you met with the Minister of Education and Research and the staff of the Ministry, as well as the Council of Rectors, did you also meet with representatives of the Estonian Student Association?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U132	We didn't meet the Rectors' Council. We had correspondence with the rectors of public universities, as well as with the rectors of universities of applied sciences, during which we learned their views and assessments. I met with the representative of the Association of Estonian Student Unions as the person responsible for handling this draft. Since all these issues, which were also raised by the students, were discussed in isolation during the previous procedure, this issue was not raised in the Commission that we should invite the students once again to the discussions. No member of the Commission requested this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U133	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U134	Dear waitress, You know that in general, all the sums in the state budget need to be monitored and negotiated with the authorities to whom the money is allocated. Do you not think that, based on the logic applied by the Ministry of Education and Research in dealing with this problem, the state budget should be adopted as one line: allocating this amount of money to the Government of the Republic, and the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U135	No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U136	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Since the reform of university and higher education as a whole has attracted quite a lot of public interest, our debate in this Chamber will certainly also be monitored today. Therefore, also in the public interest, I would ask you to be so kind as to answer the question of how you would reassure these current and future students of higher education who are concerned that under the slogan of free higher education, the opportunities for young people to choose a specialty will be greatly reduced and their general numbers will be significantly reduced. Is such a fear justified, or do you find it not to be the responsible judge of the Committee on Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U138	In preparing this draft, we have been trying to balance the wishes and expectations of students as well as the wishes and expectations of universities over this long period of time. We have tried to strike a balance between the wishes and expectations of all our partners. I'm sure it's possible. Let's start with the universities. The issue of university funding, the conclusion of management contracts and performance contracts with universities, and the same large distribution of these budgets in the form of 70-75% and 20-25% have been up from a number of angles. One way or another, if you remember, we got very accurate at times, and the universities were afraid that if the President's recommendations are really taken into account so intently now, the funding of universities under law would become so rigidly fixed that their activities would otherwise be in danger. At the same time, however, lawyers considered such a more general wording and the development of a financing model to be unconstitutional. Everything we have agreed here is really the result of a lot of disputes and a lot of work, so-called building a church in the middle of a village. As for students' opportunities to study different disciplines, listen to different lectures, I do not see the risk of narrowing them down. It is clear that some duplication between universities is likely to end. It's too expensive to double, and it's stopped. But a student who is determined to study properly, learn as much as possible, within a nominal time and diligently, by dedicating himself or herself to studies, I do not believe that his or her life will become any more complicated. On the contrary, he has confidence in what he has to do, what the university and also the taxpayer have the right to demand from him.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U139	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U140	Thank you. Dear waitress, The Association of Estonian Student Unions, as well as the Social Democrats, have repeatedly emphasised that this Act should be dealt with in conjunction with the Student Benefits Act. You have also said here that you do not believe that this is necessary, but you have become aware that both laws should enter into force at the same time. This bill was promised to us by September, then December and then January. Now it's May, we still don't have that bill. The reason is simple: the draft law on education grants has been repeatedly sent back from the government coordination circle, including because there is no money to implement it in 2013. With regard to the latter's coordination, the Minister of Finance has said that the government should not decide until a budgetary strategy has been adopted. It has now appeared, but unfortunately there is not a word in the public document about when the study grant law should enter into force. That is my question: what are the circumstances on the basis of which you believe that our country's accounts will already allocate the necessary funds in 2013 so that this reform can be done at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U141	I have expressed my personal opinion on several occasions, and I can repeat that. In my opinion, the current law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws should enter into force with a need-based system of study grants. When we put a student in a new situation under this law, we demand his or her commitment to studies, we want him or her to complete his or her studies during the nominal period, it makes perfect sense that there must be a system of study grants next to it. However, one hundred percent of the student needs should not be expected to meet the needs of each student, as these needs are very different. One can handle less, the other wants more money. Of course, you, Mr Ossinovski, are a more kind person than I am, but that is the way it is. According to my information, the bill is in the State Chancellery or on its way to the Riigikogu, and I very much hope that we will be able to deal with it soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U142	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U143	I have been trying to establish or restore the link between this law and the state budget all the time. Please be so good and make clear this whole logical sequence of how one number, one amount allocated to the university is born! There are three-year contracts, there are annual contracts You can't read it in this law. But maybe the chairman of the committee knows because you've been discussing it. I am also interested in how one budget number is to be given to universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U144	We will then work together on the text of this bill, which contains as much detail as it is necessary, in general and in general terms, to set out the means of conducting higher education and to allocate operating grants to universities. The law is supplemented by § 501. In order to allocate an operating grant to a university, a three-year administrative agreement is concluded between the University and the Minister of Education and Research on the basis of a decision of the Government, which has more generally agreed on obligations based on the mission, objectives and tasks of the university, or on the main content of a particular university, and also on the needs of the state. As in the contract, the rights and obligations and responsibilities of both parties are still in the letter. An annual performance contract shall be concluded as an annex to the contract for the performance of an administrative contract. An administrative agreement shall be concluded for a period of three years, a performance agreement for a period of one year. This one-year performance agreement sets out both the university's obligations arising from the conduct of a specific study and the conditions under which it is financed. And if it is agreed, here is the paragraph after the paragraph, which is all accounted for as part-time or doctoral funding, as well as important state-of-the-art supporting activities, as well as the basis for allocating the scholarship fund. They are listed in the performance agreement and will be reviewed on an annual basis to conclude a new one. How a particular number of universities will be formed, how much it is exactly, it is the subject of negotiations. And this process is not short.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U145	Please, Mr Mailis Reps, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As a waitress, can you confirm that the amounts that the higher education institutions have today, including the pay-per-view fees paid by paid students, will be compensated for by future state budgets? Or do higher education institutions have to find other ways to cover this deficit?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U147	We know that there will also be amounts in the state budget for the next few years to compensate for any outstanding revenue. Will all this continue, it is also a question of these same negotiations. As I have already pointed out, there will certainly be less foolish duplication and more accurate reading and accounting of resources will be available. To say today that all universities must receive exactly the same amount of more and more money, I certainly cannot. But I am convinced that in preparing the draft by the Ministry of Education and Research and in processing it all of us have been guided by the aim that the state of Estonia should have well-functioning, competitive, well-educated public universities and the conditions created for normal, fair competition also for private institutions of higher education, who have, in many ways, been very opposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U148	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U149	Thank you. I'll continue with my last question. As I said, the budgetary strategy does not clearly state what year the study grants will take effect. During the period from 2013 to 2016, they will certainly enter into force, has been said. But hasn't the Minister of Finance informed us about this already in 2013. At the government press conference last week, the Minister of Education Jaak Aaviksoo said that it might be possible to accommodate student grants. In short, there is no very positive signal that these two laws can enter into force at the same time. I will then ask you differently: what happens if, however, the money is not found for this to happen, so that the study grants will enter into force in parallel with this law in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U150	I urge everyone to work towards their entry into force together.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U151	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U152	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! Last year there were major disputes over the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. Today, it seems that this law needs to be brought back to the Riigikogu. Now I want to ask your opinion. Doesn't it seem like college law has to be renegotiated after a year or two?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U153	I see no tragedy in this when we start discussing the basic school and upper secondary school law again and, if necessary, after a while, the university law. If life changes, if corrective action is needed, then the laws must also be discussed again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U154	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Klaas, for your presentation and your answer to questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, Mr Allik! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U155	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Following the failure of the President to announce and to reprove for several months in the Committee on Culture, this law has acquired a slightly higher degree of autonomy, which the Social Democrats naturally support. More importantly, higher education institutions may be insured for the next three years by more or less the current volume of public training orders and will also be allowed to compensate for the loss of paid education. Thus, full implementation of the new financing model has been delayed by three years. At the same time, the fundamental problems of the law have remained. The Social Democratic Party argues that the transition to free higher education is only possible in the event of a significant increase in public funding for higher education. The current path, which means that the state only compensates higher education institutions for part of the private money which, as it is being sought to ban, constitutes an informed manipulation of words and leads to an increase in the proportion of students who actually pay for their studies. It is characteristic that this time the Coalition did not want to take into account the proposal of the Association of Estonian Student Unions to discuss the amendment of the University Act with the amendment of the Student Grants and Student Loan Act. The government's version of this law has, of course, still not been submitted to the Riigikogu and it will not be on the agenda at the spring session of the Riigikogu. This is why the Social Democrats submitted their proposals to amend the Study Benefits Act to the proceedings. According to the Riigikogu Reglement, this draft must reach first reading in the Riigikogu at the latest on the first working week of June, and then it becomes clear how seriously the words of Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the IRL, are that we have reached the level of Scandinavian countries with our free higher education. I would point out that student grants currently account for 5% of our total cost of higher education, in Finland the same figure is 17.4%, in Sweden 28.4% and in Norway as much as 36.7%. Allowing free higher education only to 100% of the students of the curriculum, without paying them tuition grants, is therefore not a capitalist free higher education, which in contrast to the so-called Communist and Socialist higher education model he has been promulgated, the Minister of Education loves to speak. It's just cheating on young people. This is the main reason why the Social Democrats cannot support the draft legislation under discussion in its new and slightly improved form. However, the fact that the Committee on Culture did not support the Socialist Amendment proposal, which would have brought the final allocation of the budgets of public higher education institutions back to the Riigikogu's competence, goes down in the history of the parliament. As far as the state budget and its annexes are concerned, it is possible to find specific amounts intended to finance all public entities under the administration of other ministries. We will also find the budget for all the foundations formed by the state there. We even find the budget numbers for the little Võru Institute, the Laidoner Museum or Illuka Asylum, even the size of the budget of the Information Office and the Defence Police. As elected representatives of the people, we are legally competent to both know and correct these figures. But we can't find the budget numbers of public higher education institutions there and allocate money to finance higher education like a big black hole with one bag. By doing so, we have unequivocally placed public higher education institutions whose autonomy is protected by § 38 of the Constitution on a line with the state institutions administered by the Ministry, to which the President of the Republic rightly drew our attention when he left the law to be declared. However, the majority of the Committee on Culture did not want to change this situation; it did not want to take the right and responsibility of the Riigikogu for the budget of the University of Tartu or Tallinn University of Technology, for example, leaving it at the sole discretion of the Government of the Republic. There is no logical justification for this. The justification given in the explanatory memorandum that this cannot be done because administrative contracts are concluded with universities after the adoption of the annual state budget, is simply incomprehensible because the same contracts for spending the money allocated are concluded within a month of the adoption of the state budget, for example, with theatres, and nothing bad has happened since the final decision on budget support is made by the Riigikogu. The only real reason not to support our proposal was that Minister Aaviksoo probably wants to share the money himself and that the government coalition is willing to trust him blindly. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are not making law for a minister. Imagine the horror that one day you will be in opposition and the Minister of Education will be Mrs Reps again, for example. I think that, in anticipation of this inevitability, the Centre Party did not support our proposal in solidarity with the Government Coalition. In fact, this is another sad example that the government coalition of the XII Riigikogu has voluntarily turned itself into an empty rubber stamp in the hands of the government and does not wish to come out of this position even if the amendment does not threaten him with anything of substance. That's too bad! But we'll wait and learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U156	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U157	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The President's failure to declare this law has been interpreted in some places because of some technical details. In fact, these technical details are of the kind that shape the country's face. We know that it is up to Parliament to ensure that all institutions are covered by an adequate revenue base independent of the central authority for the performance of their tasks. We've talked a lot about this in this hall. This is particularly true for the municipalities, where the coalition of government considers that they share money better, and it is the central authority that must have this wallet. This also applies to funding universities. In fact, it is not worth blaming the government here, because governments always think that they share money better than Parliament. Parliament, however, should also give some thought to its tasks. The same view that it is the government that knows things best has been put out on several occasions with this law. The Minister for Education and Science has repeatedly said that the influence of the German school should be removed, in which all the details are pedantically sought to be established by law. The logic of this law contained examples to the contrary. For example, when the question of academic leave was discussed. The Minister of Education and Science, and the Commission subsequently found that it must certainly be put in place at the level of the law or given the ministry a solution, but leave universities no discretion here, as it should not. Things of this kind seem pretty ugly for people who are practically exposed to these laws. I've worked at university for many years, and I know earlier laws and norms that we've learned to pass masterfully. We know what to do to circumvent one or the other stupid rule of law. It is now found that the university itself cannot decide who can perform academic duties during academic leave, says the law. The bill says a disabled person can. I can predict that, if this provision applies, in five years' time, statistics will show a significant increase in the number of students with mental disabilities at Estonian universities. In order to better organize his work, no one will chop off his finger, as was done to escape the military service of the Tsar. But the friendly doctor on this paper still gets a little bit of lime falling in the oven or something like that. Such dangers are unfortunately present in this law. It has also been said that there is something missing in this law. There were also questions about how long this law would last. Of course, this is not a law valid for a quarter century. Whether he is valid for two or three or four years, whether the current or the next Riigikogu is going to change it, that is a separate question. They said a lot of things were missing. Indeed, as the previous speakers have said here, there is a lack of the study grant law. This morning, however, the Minister confirmed that the study grant law is already coming, he already seems, and maybe this is next week's Riigikogu proceedings. Let's see, let's appreciate. We believe that perhaps it is necessary to vote in favour of the cat, which also captures some mice. Let's trust, hope and proceed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U158	Thank you, Mr Black. Please, colleague Priit onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U159	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, My report's probably not gonna be that colorful. But because of the fall of lime in the oven and Mr. Allik's reference to the Reps, I didn't understand whether it was good or bad that he was a minister. I guess I'll be able to find out. Today, we are discussing the changes in the area of higher education again, as the President has pointed out possible contradictions with the Constitution. First of all, I would like to thank Urmas Klaas, who has done a very serious and great job as chairman of the committee and as chairman of the draft. During the procedure for this draft, we have really met a lot of stakeholders from students to rectors and others. This is also natural, because the draft that we are discussing again today is the most important one that has been put into practice in recent years to make changes to the higher education system. Although both today's debate and the last debates in the Commission have been of a more developmental rather than substantive nature, in any case, it is a pleasure if one good thing gets better. These improvements provide students with additional certainty in the knowledge for which the university may charge them. Previously enrolled students will be subject to restrictions on academic leave while completing the curriculum from 2016/2017. the academic year. Universities, however, have legal certainty on the basis of which, and taking into account which criteria, the Ministry of Education and Research will conclude a contract with the university. The need for changes in Estonian higher education has not come about quite by itself or into emptiness. The funding of Estonian higher education has been based on a national training order since 1996. The state has ordered the necessary number of study places, later graduates in the field, based on the preservation of the Estonian state, culture and nationality, labour market needs, economic forecasts and other factors. However, the funding system so far has not worked successfully for educational institutions, the state or students. The lack of sustainability of the existing system has been confirmed by various parties, including the Chief Auditor General of the National Audit Office. Public universities have not taken into account the reduction of students in their plans. However, it is a demographic necessity that in 2016 there will be 10,000 fewer students than today. In 2007, the existing system has been criticised and identified by the OECD in its analysis. Unfortunately, this draft, which we are dealing with today and which is substantially reorganising the current organisation of higher education, has not only responded positively. That too is natural, because no bill can solve all the problems of all people. Taxpayers have an interest in getting quickly educated in the labour market, while students would like to get involved in teaching at length and in depth. This bill will ensure better access to free education for capable young people. Currently, most students come from a handful of so-called elite upper secondary schools. This law changes the situation. The university will start from the threshold and anyone who exceeds the threshold will receive equal treatment and equal opportunities to obtain higher education at the expense of the taxpayer. Free higher education is not available for everyone and unconditionally. Only those who are interested and able to do so will in future be able to obtain higher education free of charge, i.e. at the expense of the taxpayer. Higher education must be equally accessible to all talented people, regardless of the student's or student's family wallet. This is also the principle previously cited here. But this bill will create about 3,500 new free students. I am convinced that public funding for higher education will increase by about 25%. The system is becoming fairer. It is now possible for some to get a free place of study, while others have to pay for it all. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U160	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U161	This injustice disappears because all capable youths can learn. Whether they can study for free depends on young people themselves, their interest and abilities. If everything has not been done in time, the university has the right to charge only for the missed points. However, if a student receives 30 ECTS per semester or more, he or she will be fully paid by the taxpayer for his or her studies. As a result of the draft, the taxpayer will also win, as the time for university studies will be reduced. This probability has also been confirmed by the Rectors at various meetings. It also creates clarity and certainty for public universities in the long term. The restructuring of the law and the demographic situation will allow the resources of one student to be doubled in five years. Thus, the state invests in the area of higher education of 2 to 2.5 million, which is being taken out of the demographic situation today. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we can deal with the draft quickly and that the positive side of this will quickly materialise. In the near future, the Need-Based Education Allowance Act should also reach our tables, which will play an important role in this, as the previous speakers have said here, so that the objectives of the draft law that we are discussing today can be fully achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U162	Thank you very much, Mr Priit Onion. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now go to the examination of the amendments, which have been tabled in 12. Let's start reviewing them. Amendment 1 is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has ignored it. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U163	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for this very good proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U164	Well, I agree to put this very good proposal to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! Results of the vote 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the commission has rejected it. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U165	Please vote on Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U166	Please! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! Results of the vote 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 4 has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture, which has also been fully taken into account. Amendment 5 is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has rejected it. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U167	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U168	I'd love to! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 5, which is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, and which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! Results of the vote 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U169	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U170	All right! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! Results of the vote 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 8 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the commission has rejected it. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U171	Thank you. I would be happy to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U172	Thank you, I am happy to vote on this. I shall put to the vote Amendment No 8, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! Results of the vote 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the commission has rejected it. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U173	I would like to vote on Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-02_U174	All right! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please vote! Results of the vote 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 10 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the commission has rejected it. This proposal is not subject to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the commission has rejected it and this proposal is not to be voted on either. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. Second reading of bill 89 is complete. Our agenda is exhausted, the trial is closed. Thank you very much. Closure of the sitting at 15.48 p.m.
