ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Government. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! Thirty-six delegates registered as present, 65 missing. In today's Question Time, the following members of the government will participate: Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Prime Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Let's get to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, there are seven registered issues today, which is why I can allow two on-the-spot issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U2	The first question is from my colleague, Kadri Samson, to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U3	Minister of Finance! At the end of May, the European Commission published an assessment of Estonia's 2012 national reform programme and stability programme. It states that Estonia's public debt level is very low, but at the same time the European Commission estimates that if the current policy continues, the debt will increase to 14.6% of GDP by 2020, which is much higher than the current situation. I would like to know from you what are the reasons that increase the debt burden on Estonia in this volume.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U4	You are approaching this issue from an unexpected point of view. 14% would also be a non-existent debt burden on a European scale and internationally. We don't have the point of looking for a problem in this. However, the government will necessarily ensure that the debt burden is contained so that, if another budget or budget strategy is drawn up, the expenditure is covered by revenue. This 14% is the European Commission's forecast, and that is something we are monitoring. We ourselves have our own forecasts, and we know that the pressure for expenditure to exceed revenue is strong before any budget strategy is drawn up. In itself, 14% is not the problem, the problem is whether we are relaxing. Because once you shoot and think that such a burden of debt isn't a problem, that's the way it is. Continuing the current policy is the key message that the European Commission tells us: keep your current line, keep your debts in check and make similar decisions! That's what we're told.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U6	Thank you. Minister of Finance! We have repeatedly talked about corporate tax in Estonia in this Chamber. Taxes on corporate income and capital stocks are well below the European Union average in Estonia. Overall, the tax rate on capital in Estonia is 9.1%, which is considerably lower than the average of the European Union, which is 28.8%. Given the move towards a European budget union, I ask: when is a specific arrangement for Estonia to bring corporate income tax to European level?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U7	This is another unexpected angle! Such an arrangement will not be necessary unless Europe decides to harmonise tax systems. But the direction of harmonisation is undoubtedly the other way around. In Europe, it has been very well understood that the problem is competitiveness, the problem is whether investment can be kept in Europe, whether jobs can be created. There is a fiscal consensus that Europe must move towards taxation of consumption and pollution instead of taxation on income and labour. You can also find these same sentences in the coalition parties' programme, at least in the Reform Party's programme they have been for a long time. We've had exactly the same attitude. This is a European consensus position and this is also the conclusion of the OECD analysis. Corporate income tax is the most impeding tax on the economy based on the OECD analysis and is known in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U9	Thank you. Minister of Finance! If you look at the criticism of the European Commission's assessment, it criticises Estonia for abolishing the land tax on the land under home country. Its abolition reduces the ability of the country to increase and diversify its budget revenue without undermining economic growth. I remember you, as Minister of Finance, also opposed such a decision. Why was this done, and will the negative consequences of this decision in Estonia be discussed again, as a result of this criticism?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U10	You're trying to get me into a fight with a coalition partner now. I do not dare to say in their presence that they are about to dissipate what I think of this change. In pure tax theory, however, land tax is, in my opinion, a fair tax. I am not ashamed to say this and, in the context of this amendment, I have also admitted that I disagree. But coalition agreements are all compromises. The parties are different, their views are different, and I have to accept that. The alternatives are much worse. If I appreciate the current coalition, I must say that these are the two most affordable political parties for the taxpayer. I don't see any change happening here. The analysis of the election promises was carried out by the analysts of the Ministry of Finance without pricking the Minister. And even though you didn't accept it, the price of your promises was 1.5 billion in total if you took a clearly identifiable bill of promises. Ours was $200 million, IRL's $400, so you figure out your $700 million. So the taxpayer has done well now, and in that sense I certainly support coalition partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U11	Two questions registered on the spot, please. Let's start with colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U12	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! I also ask about corporate tax. This assessment by the European Commission makes it very clear that the tax on corporate income and capital resources in Estonia is considerably lower than the average for the European Union. In 2000, we lost the tax on corporate income from investments. How much money do you think we would have raised in the state budget in 12 years if this tax had been much higher? What's your approximate prognosis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U13	We have a specific study on this, but I can say that one country must not set an objective such as as much tax as possible in the Treasury. The goal must still be the highest possible quality of life. This is an optimization. The economy must not be damaged, but the financing of the functions of the state must be guaranteed. The country's functions have been financed fairly well and largely because our use of money is effective in Europe's overall context. But in the case of corporate tax, keep in mind that it is in Europe and in the wider world at times when the mobility of capital was very low if it did not compete for investments, when there was an understanding that there was a need to ask for more and more tax, and ask the minority, because it guarantees election victory. When companies pay, nobody pays. It is very easy to serve to the large crowds, if you speak it nicely and ensure your voices. It is precisely because of such populism's technology that corporate tax has been the most effective way of crowding out investments from Europe and jobs, including taxes. I can find you this OECD study, which shows a ranking of the strength of the fiscal recession. The worst tax is corporate income tax, followed by labour taxes and, thirdly, consumption taxes with a relatively neutral effect. The company's income tax is a tax that is directly detrimental to the economy and deters investment. You can try it, but in that case, it's clear that you won't stay in power for long.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U14	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U15	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Europe's financial situation is known to be critical and complex. You have repeatedly spoken here in the Riigikogu about the need to make urgent decisions. In view of the Riigikogu's domestic and operational procedures, do you foresee summer extraordinary sessions in connection with the ESM or other such decisions? What's your prognosis?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U16	If the President allows an answer and does not intervene in accordance with the paragraphs of the Rules of Procedure, I would say, as an old wolves of Parliament, that yes, Parliament should be prepared for extraordinary sessions this summer. Above all, this is the decision of the Supreme Court. And not only is the ESM an issue. It is a very important issue for me, and the question of responsibility is also the Fiscal Treaty and the Treaty on European Union, so that we do not continue to play such a sloppy role again. Because if we give the ESM a signal that we have agreed to accept the aid, but the Constitution does not allow us to contribute ourselves, there is at least something that could alleviate it. For example, by not being the last for other instruments of cooperation that are safer from a constitutional point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U17	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U18	The next question is from my colleague Neeme the Great to the Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U19	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Secretary of Defense, this is a question for you as Prime Minister. Estonia's regional development strategy 2005re2015 is a very good document in the light of which we are currently living. It says that areas without a development perspective do not exist in Estonia and ensuring the sustainable development of all regions is the main objective of the document. The development strategy has been monitored in 2009 and 2011 and both times it was recognised that efforts have not been successful. This is confirmed by the recent results of the census, according to which the population will increase only in the counties of Harju and Tartu. Here's the question. What do you think is a very good document, but why hasn't this strategy been implemented? And should we say that we have failed to implement it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U20	Thank you for that question. First of all, implementation of the strategy has certainly not failed. Four indicators will be used to monitor progress towards the overall objective of this strategy. First: The share of the population living in Harju County remains below 41% of the total Estonian population. If we look at the results of the last census, this figure is 42.7%. So if you make a calculation based on the figures of the last population census, we've moved down from this level. Second measure: Northern Estonia's share of gross domestic product has slowed down and remains below 70% of Estonia's gross domestic product. In order to assess this state of affairs, we can look at the report 'Regional Development Trends in Estonia', prepared by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Indeed, the share of Harjumaa's GDP decreased in the years of the recession. Now it has started to grow again, according to recent data it was 61.2%, which remains within the frame. Thirdly, the annual average unemployment rate in any county must not be lower than 45%. Indeed, in Põlvamaa, this figure slipped below the target in 2010: it was 43%. As a positive news, in 2011, the unemployment rate in Põlva County, which is in the last place, moved to 49.2% and will also remain within the set limits. And the fourth measure: the average standard of living in any county must not be lower than 61% of the highest county standard. This figure is currently 73% according to the analysis by the Ministry of the Interior and thus remains at the target level of the strategy. However, all of this does not mean that we do not have serious regional problems, and that is why the Minister for Regional Development has initiated a new regional development strategy for the years up to 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U21	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U22	Thank you. I have a question about a new strategy. Already in the previous strategy, it said that the link between sectoral policies and regional policy must be strengthened. When this monitoring was carried out in 2011, exactly the same indication was written down. Hence my question: how strong is this strategy for regional development at all? A new regional development strategy is currently being drawn up. The former strategy, by the way, was not confirmed by the Government of the Republic by its order; the current strategy is subject to a protocol decision to approve. We know that this is the way the government behaves when it cannot be opposed, but it does not really want to approve. Now that this new regional development strategy is coming up, is this time the government going to endorse it with its own arrangement?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U23	Thank you. The Minister for Regional Affairs has proposed to the Government to initiate the development of this strategy and, of course, it is also possible to draw up a strategy as a document with a view to sectoral and sectoral coherence. It will hopefully be handed over to the government for approval for the spring 2013 period. Government policies must definitely be approved by the government. Of course, it is clear that paper alone does not guarantee life on earth. Life on earth is guaranteed by decisions relating to funding. This is an obvious preference for state policy, and it must be said that the government has set itself the goal of channelling the European Union's funds to the highest regional aid per capita, precisely to those counties where there is the greatest need to ensure regional equality with others. Thus, the highest number of regional grants per capita has gone to Hiiu and Saaremaa and South-East Estonia. I think this has been the right policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U24	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U25	Thank you, Madam President. If we now move on from this issue and talk about strengthening regional policy, it was the last time the Regional Minister of Apple Tree tried to enforce the law on regional development. I'm afraid that didn't work. In the light of the last census and knowing our demographic and regional developments, don't you think it's high time to retable the draft law on regional development?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U26	I believe that if, in 2012, we also receive demographic and sectoral statistics by municipalities, reflecting the results of the census, the decision-makers will certainly have to draw their own conclusions and adjust their policies if necessary. It's elementary. The legal measures we use to pursue our objectives are a question of choice. I repeat: as far as financing decisions are concerned, the clear policy of the government is with them to ensure regional balance. This can also be seen from the allocation of EU regional policy funds. Secondly, according to the census data, the central tasks of regional policy are still two things: firstly, more children must be born in Estonia and secondly, there must be employment in all counties in Estonia. Government action must be directed at this, and it is directed at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U27	Let us now start by asking the questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U28	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Your answers were very blabber, but in reply to Mr Neeme the Great's first question, you also said, among other things, that, as a positive point, unemployment has moved up. Could you expand this line of reasoning, please? What is so positive about the rise in unemployment?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U29	It can be said positive that unemployment is falling strongly in Estonia. This is undoubtedly linked to the reduction in seasonal unemployment, but also to the increase in employment in Estonia. What is very important and positive in the area of regional development is that if we look at the figures in the report on the regional development strategy, the regional differences in the proportion of people employed have actually decreased. As I said, the share of people in employment in the region with the lowest share of employment has increased sharply in 2010 and 2011, and I hope that this trend will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U30	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, One objective in the development of national regional policy is the sustainable development of our regions. If you look at the reality in the tables, including the gross domestic product, this geographical map is very mixed. Life is known to be concentrated in cities and larger populated areas. So we cannot talk about sustainable development in the countryside. In the other way, we know that rural parents must also take care of regional balance and development. My question is, have the landowners been able to do their job? Have they complied with these regional policy decisions or have the county governor become the top political party in the county?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U32	I'm sure while you were in the country's office, you were trying to ensure balanced development in your county. The current county elders, as neutral civil servants, also carry out the functions that the law obliges them to do, and are impartial in the application of the law in the county. Now about your argument concerning the county differences in the development of the Estonian economy. Indeed, I would like to highlight the report by the Ministry of the Interior from 2011 on the implementation of the regional development strategy. It states that the differences in incomes of Estonian residents have, however, been somewhat reduced proportionally over the last few years. The lowest average wage earning income in 2010 was in Valgamaa, reaching 73.5% of the highest county figure known to be Harjumaa. As I pointed out, this rate is 61% in the monitoring targets for the regional development strategy. The average income of a household member is considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U33	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U34	The next question is for my colleague, Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, the Minister of Agriculture, to Mrs Tuksole. Please! Ester Tuiksoo, please, just once on the "Word" key!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U35	Thank you very much. Sorry about the technical error, Madam President. Good Minister of Agriculture! This week, agricultural organisations started collecting signatures from the Estonian population to support our demand for more equal opportunities for farmers in the next financial period. I'm sure that will help you in your work, too. My question is very simple: how can you support the agricultural organisations in this action and how do you intend to exploit the results of this undertaking in your work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U36	Thank you for your question. I regard this collection of signatures as a statement of support for the government's activities, including its own activities. As far as the European Union's support policy is concerned, the government, farmers' organisations and farmers have a common platform and a common position in this respect. We'll do it together soon enough. Businesses, through their representative organisations, must send a strong message to Brussels to ensure that their umbrella organisations there support equalisation of subsidies, equal levels of support. As politicians, of course, we must make sure that the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the European Commission have a favourable and sensible solution to support issues. That's what we've been working on. For example, tonight I arrived from Denmark in an informal Council meeting, where one of the topics for discussion was direct payments in the next financial period in the European Union. So we're gonna have to take advantage of all the possibilities. As I have said in this Chamber before, I am moderately optimistic on this issue. I believe that the end result will be better than what the Commission originally proposed as a draft, i.e. 58% of the European Union average. I am sure that the end result will be better, but how much better will depend on our joint efforts.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U37	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U38	Thank you very much. My second question is that you met your colleagues in Copenhagen. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, you spoke about your relations with Germany. Some things, however, were still unnegotiable with neighbours, such as Latvia. How's the communication between Germany and the others been? Are the developments as positive as the ones you talked about answering the previous question?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U39	Yes, today I can also answer yes to this question. In Copenhagen we found a common language with Latvians, Lithuanians and Germans. There was also a four-way meeting where ministers from all these countries were present and where we agreed on our common positions and action plan. So I can confirm that the Germans understand the Baltics' aspirations and support the Baltics' distinctive character when setting agricultural subsidies for the next financial period.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U40	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U41	Thank you very much. I very much liked your optimistic answer to my previous question. But now I am going to ask you a somewhat different question, which also concerns agricultural policy. The good minister that you, as a man, follow in your work: is it the principle that a man gives his word and keeps his word, or that a man gives his word and takes the floor?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U42	I think that keeping to ourselves should be about both sexes, both men and women. Otherwise we would violate the very important European principle of equal treatment for men and women. So I think we both have to give our word and keep our word.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U43	Now, the questions registered on the spot. Colleague Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Agriculture! Unpleasantly, we learned that Estonian farmers have been given 20% less support in the Accession Treaty in 2013 than in 2012. In reality, this amount is EUR 28 million. You have said that you will find this missing money in the Estonian state budget, but the resistance of the European Commission is an obstacle. Have you reached an agreement with the European Commission on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U45	Thank you for your question. This is a question of the possibility of paying "top-ups" or national grants in 2013. Yes, according to the Accession Treaty This concerns not only Estonia, but all the countries of Eastern Europe that have had this right so far. At present, the Commission has received a request that the current practice be continued in 2013 and that Member States have the right to do so. The Commission has not given a formal reply. If the Commission does not allow this support to be paid in 2013, we cannot pay it in Estonia either. Not even if we had the money to do so, and if we had this possibility in the state budget. So everything depends first and foremost on the Commission's legal decision, but we have written it into the state budget as an 'application'. It is now up to the Commission to decide whether or not we can proceed with this procedure. The possibility of a state budget is another issue. As we know, many areas need extra money If the Commission still provides Estonia with this legal basis, we will have difficult choices. At the moment, we do not have this legal basis. But we are actively working on it. I cannot answer when the Commission will say its clear answer, but we are working towards this goal, and we also have some allies who are also very active in this matter, especially the Baltic States.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U46	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to congratulate you on the fact that, in addition to agricultural policy, you have started implementing regional policy. I am especially grateful for the decision to take the Rural Promotion Foundation to Viljandi. But the person's like that once he's had a little bit, he'd always want more. I ask: when are you planning to transfer the Veterinary and Food Board currently operating in Tallinn to Viljandi?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U48	When the central office of the Rural Promotion Foundation is removed from Tallinn, there is only one centre in Tallinn in the area of our administration, the rest are already outside. But we do not plan to move the Food and Veterinary Office from Tallinn in the coming years. Firstly, it is a very large establishment and, secondly, a house reconstructed by the Food and Veterinary Office, with additional buildings, was completed a few years before I took office. These are earlier decisions, and we do not have the money to do so now, and it would not be practical if we were to start developing the new Food and Veterinary Office somewhere else. If the institution had not been created recently in the city of Tallinn, I would certainly have considered it very seriously, but under the current circumstances it is not practical. There is also a need to read money very carefully when it comes to regional policy, and there are certainly institutions in other ministries that can be moved outside Tallinn at reasonable costs. I will try to encourage colleagues more on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U49	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U50	Next question, please, from my colleague Yana Toom, Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I would like to talk about the citizens' initiative, namely the collection of signatures. Just before I came to this hall, I browsed a page like petition.ee. You probably know that, too. I found dozens of all kinds of appeals there, from legalising cannabis to cutting the fees for renewable energy. By the way, the latter was very successful: almost 4,000 signatures were collected in three weeks. As a member of the government, and now also as a minister responsible for the Prime Minister's duties, how do you feel about the fact that the people of Estonia are very busy collecting signatures? Is this a signal to the government, not only if the signatures support the government's actions, but also when it is critical of the government's actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U52	I think that feedback in the social sphere is very important for all decision-makers and also for the government. The government is guided by good principles of inclusiveness in shaping its policies, and it will certainly also build on citizens' appeals, either condemning or supporting any social initiative, including government action. However, this does not necessarily mean that any statement of position will lead to a change in government policy. However, the government cannot and will not ignore the views expressed by Estonian citizens and others. When it comes to expressing our opinion in the Internet space, it is nothing unique to us. There are similar engines in a large number of countries and, in fact, people can express their attitudes even within the framework of global initiatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U53	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! When I took out the data on the most recent major campaigns, I noticed that 8 000 signatures were collected against it and 5 000 signatures were collected, for example, when the Statue of Liberty was erected, but the Statue of Liberty is still where it is. The residents of Narva handed over 15,000 signatures to Minister Vaher, who was asked, among other things, to alleviate the language demands of Narva police officers. However, we know the Minister's categorical view that this does not need to be done. My question, however, is that last week the Prime Minister's office was handed over 35,000 signatures from people who are pro-Russian upper secondary school students in Estonia. What is the fate of this appeal: will it go with all these signatures to the pile of paper or what will the government do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U55	As regards the gradual transition of Russian-language upper secondary schools to the Estonian language of instruction, the policy of the government is clear here. Government departments have not made this a secret in the elections, nor have they received support from citizens. Our programme is that since 2011, young people entering the 10th grade must study at least 60% of the compulsory study volume in Estonian. This is also undoubtedly related to the quality of education and the opportunities for these young people to acquire education later in Estonia and also to get a job. If we look at the trend of young people who have completed upper secondary school education in Russian during the last five years, we can see that the number of students has fallen by 50% over the last five years. The entirely adequate assessment of the Ministry of Education and Research is that it makes it questionable whether it is possible to obtain high-quality secondary education in this way. The Ministry of Education and Research also confirms that recent meetings with all the leaders of Russian upper secondary schools have given feedback that the transition is going, that there are no major problems and that the course of our law is firmly maintained. As problems, school leaders have highlighted the issues of organizing the school network and political pressure at local government level in Narva and Tallinn. I am sure that this pressure will also be reflected in the collection of signatures, as we saw some time ago in Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U56	Please, Mr Toom, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U57	Thank you, Madam President. You see, Mr. Minister, I don't want to pose with you on the subject of Russian school, because I can take poison on it, because I know a little more about it than you do because my children have studied at such a school and yours obviously have not. But that's it. My question was whether it could be hoped that the government would take the collection of signatures as a signal that needed to be responded to. In fact, I knew in advance that you would tell me exactly this kind of talk about Russian schools when you answered me. But then I ask: what about the numerous signatures that have been collected against the increase in electricity prices? This was done by the Owners' Association, which was done by the Alliance of Pensioners' Associations there are over 30,000 signatures. Will we get the answer again that this is the political will of the government? Is it still the case that the government responds selectively to the signals given by civil society through the collection of signatures?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U58	The government will certainly not ignore signals that have a social impact. The government is thoroughly analysing why some initiatives have arisen. As far as the price of electricity is concerned, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has put forward clear proposals concerning the level of renewable energy charges. I'm sure the government will discuss these issues. I hope that a solution will be found that will meet the interests of both Estonian economic competitiveness and Estonian consumers. Other proposals will also be analysed, but inclusion does not mean that all proposals will be taken into account. Involvement means that everyone has the opportunity to submit their proposals before a decision is taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U59	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U60	Next is Mr Lember's question to Minister for Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U61	Good minister! A large number of the owners of our large plots are certainly happier from the beginning of 2013 that the land under home is tax-free. I consider such a limited resource tax exemption to be, in principle, a ridiculous approach, also because it poses major problems for local authorities. In particular, the fulfilment of the unit of income base from the land tax not collected does not ensure a fair proportion of the resources received through income tax per municipality, since the different tax bases make the impact very different. I am asking for an initiative: what plan does the coalition have in store if it turns out that the exemption from tax on homeland will cause some municipalities to have a large budget gap? Is the government prepared to make up for this deficit in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U62	First of all, if there is one change in the tax system, there is certainly no reason to expect that everything will remain the same, that all proportions will be maintained, that if one tax exemption is introduced, there will be no substitute for anything, and that it will be given in exactly the same proportion as has been granted so far. I would like to mention, for example, those municipalities which themselves have voluntarily and very proudly introduced this tax exemption. It does not match my sense of justice that they are also compensated for the tax money that they themselves have given up. Of course, there is also a constitutional problem here that, in theory, they have the opportunity to re-establish this tax. Maybe there'll be a new, brave government that still decides to impose this tax on the landowners. There is also such a theoretical possibility, although it is usually politically difficult to restore the tax abolished. But the right thing is: the government has estimated that the loss of land tax can be compensated by an increase in the share of income tax in the current proportion. We have dimmed the matter so that the majority of local governments, and above all municipalities beyond Tallinn, would not lose, but rather win. Of course, we have also looked at the limits of our budget. At the same time, municipalities and people living there will benefit from the loss of land tax. The whole problem should not just be the central government's problem, which simply has to pay for it all, but we have gone on the way to paying off.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U63	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U64	On the subject of taxation principles: the percentage of land taxation has been determined by the municipality itself, but the rate of personal income tax and the proportion of that tax received by the local authorities is a matter for the State. It cannot be influenced by the municipality. I ask: how do you consider the proposed change to be in line with the principle in the coalition agreement that the independent income base of municipalities should be increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U65	Why don't you look at the coalition contract points in the collection? Somehow they're gonna hurt each other, but somewhere they're gonna level it again. If this point really hurts another point, it does not mean that municipalities are in the role of loser. In some ways, I agree with you that this barricade or conflict exists for a couple of points, but it is not absolute. In society, truths are not so black and white.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U66	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U67	I will continue on this subject. You yourself have also advocated the principle that prior to the application of the tax exemption for homeland, a regular assessment of the land should have been carried out, which should actually have been done according to the law as early as 2008. So far, almost the same coalition is in power, but nobody wants to deal with it. Is there any hope that this unfinished work will be done by the state during this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U68	To whom hope, to whom fear. I really think that regular land valuation should be done and then give the municipalities the opportunity to adjust their income base on this basis. They have the possibility to set coefficients and the possibility to prevent the rise in land tax for citizens. The fear that they will not do so is, of course, one argument as to why this subject is rolled like hot potatoes. Maybe the taxpayer will end up being too much of a sufferer, and then they'll say it's the central government. Municipalities can behave differently, but they cannot be sure that they will stick to the tax burden limit when setting their own coefficients. This is probably the reason why the Ministry concerned is not very eager to carry out an assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U69	Now, the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! My question relates to the exemption from the tax on homeland and also to the way in which promises are fulfilled. The Prime Minister has promised in front of this hall that no municipality will receive less money than they have received so far because of the exemption from the tax on homeland. In total, local authorities will lose EUR 17 million and with a 0.17% increase in income tax, EUR 10 million will be added. The difference is 7 million euros, or about 100 million kroons in old money. I ask: are the local governments' budgets in such good shape today that they can afford it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U71	Thank you. He must comment on the Prime Minister's words himself, but, said by the mouth of the opposition, they have certainly undergone a certain transformation. This, however, has indeed been requested by the government to ensure that there is no financial loss. With a few exceptions, municipalities, as far as I can remember, are rather winners. The exception is primarily Tallinn, and in the case of Tallinn it can be said that it will not lose financially. If the Prime Minister has said so, he has also had that in mind, because Tallinn has, to put it mildly, milked the country in the opposite direction and not only the country, but also the taxpayers in general. He has, on this very pretext, raised the tax on other land, and the state is paying the land tax exemption on its property in the opposite direction already this year, if it does not yet apply by law. Tallinn itself made its own land relief, but according to bad practice, it is quite harsh for companies and the country. I would very much like to have more understanding in this Chamber of Riigikogu that the state is whole and that self-governing and state are not enemies of any kind. The municipality is not always a sufferer; the municipality must also be respectful of the state. That is why our proposal contains a point which exempts public authorities from land tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U72	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that Mr Tarmo Tamm quoted the Prime Minister directly from the verbatim without any changes. The question is that it is known that the government coalition is planning to abolish the land tax on the basis of the state institutions in addition to the tax on the land under its home country. Can you tell us when we are going to deal with this issue in this Chamber and when it will come into effect according to your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U74	Thank you. Once again, you are also an opositionar and I refuse to comment on the Prime Minister's words, which have been referred to by the opositionar. He'll have to do it himself. The context must also always be taken into account. I, too, have been deeply distressed when my words have been ripped out of context. For example, I have argued against a respected former colleague who spoke of a threat to national security, and this debate against me has been raised by raising the issue. In this sense, I am particularly careful that a malicious referee always distorts the idea. However, as far as the state authorities are concerned, when I answered the previous question, I have already said: if Tallinn thinks that he can squeeze land tax from the state without bordering, our logical answer is to exempt land under state agencies from tax. That's to save the state budget. While we have basically frozen operating costs, it painfully cuts very sensitive spheres, such as culture. Not to mention the ministries, where there is not really this layer of fat from which they simply give to Tallinn, make transfers of money. You gotta take that money somewhere. I think it makes sense to take it back from Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U75	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U76	Please ask the next question from my colleague Lauri Laas to Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U77	Mr Secretary of Defense, first of all, I wish you strength in your new job. It's not like you've been in this position for a long time. My question concerns the situation in military barracks. Despite the fact that much has been done about the living conditions of the soldiers, it cannot be silenced, there are elements of the army where the living conditions have remained unchanged since the early years of the Republic's independence. For example, there is such a lack of space in the guard battalion's barracks that if the internal regulations require 6 m2 of floor space per soldier, then there is only 2.6 m2 per soldier on one floor. So there's almost half as many soldiers stuck on one floor as the norm prescribes. However, in October...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U78	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U79	... increasing the number of soldiers considerably. Hence my question: are you aware of this problem and, if so, what are your plans to improve in the course of your term of office?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U80	Thank you for your congratulations. I think this is a very constructive question. Indeed, the living conditions of the conscripts vary greatly between the troops in Estonia. The central task is to improve the conditions of the logistics battalion on Marja Street and, as the good questioner pointed out, the guard battalion on the road to Rahumäe. I have given clear instructions to the Ministry of Defence that in the area of infrastructure, the priority is to improve the housing conditions of conscripts in Tallinn. When we look at the problems of Marja Street and Rahumägi Road, we see that the buildings on both territories are in very bad condition, have been amortised and could actually be demolished. This means that, from the perspective of the next financial year, the Ministry will have to decide how to solve the problem of civil servant housing and build new barracks. I hope that we can make these decisions in such a way that by the end of 2014 at the latest, these issues have been resolved and the living conditions of the conscripts accommodated in Tallinn barracks are in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U81	I would like to ask a question registered on the spot, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U82	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The biggest problems facing the Defence Forces are the establishment of training courses, or polygons, and the construction of strategic buildings for the territories of local governments, which, as a rule, always find clear and unambiguous opposition from local residents. How do you think this situation should be resolved? Estonia cannot increase its territory, Finland is too expensive to let go, and Russia will certainly not allow its territory to shoot at us. Are you planning some powerful and understandable steps to make it clear to people that such buildings and structures are in the interests of the protection of the Estonian state and that someone has to meet somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U83	I do not consider it necessary to take any forceful and unilateral steps compared to what policy the Ministry has pursued so far. We still take the view that polygons and other defence facilities are needed to protect the independence of the Estonian state, including the protection of all people against these facilities. At the same time, it is clear that the effects of protection facilities vary and need to be discussed. The Ministry of Defence is open to a wide range of practical co-operation solutions. I think that dialogue with communities where people are concerned is most important, but where their concern may also be of a more emotional nature. Then I'm sure these things will have to be discussed. I believe that sometimes a longer discussion of the problems in the communities will provide people with additional assurance that the decisions to be taken correspond to the general public interest and do not unduly harm them.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U84	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U85	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I, too, wish you well in this job. My question goes with the questioner. The specific case of Nursip Base in Võrumaa have you been able to familiarise yourself with this subject and, if so, what is your opinion? The residents are still very dissatisfied by this exercise field.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U86	I've brought myself up to speed on this subject. I have also spoken to a rural elder who, in my opinion, gave a rather good and balanced picture of the situation. That's my understanding. Indeed, there are conflicting views in the local community, but it may be possible to resolve them in dialogue. The Ministry is ready to inform the local people in full. Explanations are provided and, if necessary, more will be provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U87	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue so that the last question can also be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U88	One last question, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Today we know the results of the census, and they're not exactly the kind of thing that makes the heart ring. 75000 inhabitants in Estonia are still less than the figure that gives cause for concern and probably causes the government to wonder how to improve the situation. 75,000 inhabitants are figuratively taking two empty counties. I live in South-East Estonia, and I can compare that Võru and Põlva counties are not like Valgamaa with their fingertips. Do you think, in the ten years that the government has pursued its government policy, it will be much or little of the 75,000 missing persons?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U90	I want to say that the census data must be taken very seriously and we must certainly not limit ourselves to the satisfaction that our population is now more or less the same as Statistics Estonia expected. The people will shrink if the central issue of our country's policy is not to do anything about it. This requires dealing with a wide range of topics: birth rate, life expectancy, health, and undoubtedly migration, which also requires people to have the opportunity to work in Estonia and this work would be worthwhile. At the same time, we must take into account that our population will decrease even if the birth rate increases. Against the background of longevity and average birth rates, however, the low number of children born in the 1990s and the first half of the 2000s is the reason for the decline in population numbers. In the processes affecting the population, the biggest problem for Estonia is the short life expectancy of men in particular. Men living less than Estonia live only in Latvia and Lithuania than in Europe. Many men die at the age of family creation, and it also affects demography in the form of unborn children. This is a central issue that we must certainly bear in mind when making our country's policy decisions. How can more children be born in Estonia? How would the people of Estonia get a job in Estonia and pay for it? I therefore welcome the initiative of the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna, to discuss the demographic situation in Estonia and the survival of the Estonian people as a matter of national importance during the autumn session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U91	Thank you very much, Minister. Our Question Time is over. Thank you very much, colleagues, for asking questions. Many thanks to the members of the government for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U92	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 17th working week. First of all, I would like to ask my colleague, Deniss Borodichi, to hand over the draft or questioning of the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U93	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, I hand over the draft Act supplementing § 222 of the Social Welfare Act to all five members of the Association of Democrats of the Riigikogu. The drafting of the draft was due to the need to encourage the possibility for cooperatives to heat and renovate their homes at all in cases where some of the members of the cooperative are struggling to cope and to reduce their future costs for the payment of income support. The purpose of supplementing the Social Welfare Act is to enable the recipient of income support to include in the permanent costs of the dwelling the costs associated with the commitments made to renovate the dwelling. According to the current law, the members of the building management company cannot include such obligations in the cost of living. However, when renting a dwelling, it is possible for the owner of the dwelling to reflect the cost of the dwelling's rent in order to cover the expenses incurred, and then the current law considers such expenses to be part of the permanent costs of the dwelling when determining the income support, although paragraph 5 of the same section provides that the permanent costs of the dwelling are to be set at a reasonable limit by the local government council and on the same basis by both tenants and owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U94	Thank you. Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U95	On behalf of 15 Social Democrats, I have an inquiry to report to regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler. The questions of inquiry concern the same exemption from tax on land and compensation for it, which was just discussed by the Minister of Finance in Question Time. On the one hand, it is like a coalition compromise, etc., but on the other hand, we have a serious concern that the system of compensation proposed by the government will create a budget hole in very many municipalities. We are asking the Minister for Regional Affairs to answer the questions that the government intends to compensate for the gap and how the municipalities should manage in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U96	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. If the bill complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide on the procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with the same law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now I'll give you the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft Act on the amendment and addition of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 4 June, commission of the Finance Committee; secondly, the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. a Article 90 of the Electronic Communications Act, which was initiated on 5 June, is a draft law, the commission of which is a committee of economics; thirdly, the Committee of the Environment of the Riigikogu. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board and appointment of a new member of the Environmental Investment Centre" submitted on 5 June, commission of the Environment Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the draft law amending the Estonian Education Act initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and, in this connection, other laws by the deadline for submitting the documents underlying the second reading of the Act 223. a 6 June at 6 p.m. I have forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 88 delegates registered as present, missing 13. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Let's clarify the agenda. On today's 15th item, the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Securities Markets, initiated by the Government of the Republic, will be presented on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Let us now go to today's rather large agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U97	The first point is the third reading of the draft Act 206 on the amendment of state fees, the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, as a representative of the Group of the Randpere Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U98	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say a few words about this bill, which we are now dealing with here at third reading, concerning state fees. In short, it could be said that lowering state fees will improve the efficiency of judicial proceedings and simplify the system of fees for judicial proceedings. On the one hand, the reason for the drafting of this draft was the need to reduce, among our European countries, prominently high state fees and to simplify the system of court fees, on the other hand, the desire to improve civil proceedings. The amendments to the State Fees Act have been analysed by comparing the current civil procedure state fees with those of other countries and taken into account in the 2011 analysis of the Legal Information Department of the Supreme Court, "High state fee as an obstacle to access to justice'. The amendments to the State Fees Act aim to adjust the applicable rates of state fees, simplify the system for calculating state fees and facilitate the use of the public e-file information system for parties to proceedings. The purpose of the draft is also to bring the state fees depending on the cost of the action in Estonia close to the average of the countries of the benchmarks. These objectives are linked to the principles of procedural economy, as the introduction of new rates of state fees is expected to result in savings in both court and court resources. For procedural economic reasons, it is also justified to simplify the calculation of state fees, in particular by reducing the level of the calculation of state fees and by harmonising the level of state fees for legal proceedings of a similar order of magnitude. Although the aim of the draft is to reduce state fees, particularly in cases involving higher costs, where the barrages preventing recourse to the court are more severe, the lower rate of state fees has also been adjusted and simplified. In addition to amendments to the State Fees Act and the Code of Civil Procedure, the draft includes amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure, the Code of Administrative Procedure, the Law of Courts and the Law of bailiffs, which mainly relate to the aforementioned amendments. The Law on bailiffs introduces two changes to the powers of state supervision. The Law on the Courts will be supplemented by a regulation on the basis of which an individual decision can raise the maximum age of a judge's service, due to a proposal submitted by the Chancellor of Justice on 5 March 2012. The procedure for the draft has raised and may continue to raise the question of whether it is a cluster bill, as the draft is intended to amend a total of six laws. However, this draft is not a cluster bill in the negative sense of the word, for the following reasons. In accordance with the general principle laid down in § 4 (1) of the State Fees Act, the rates of state fees must be determined on the basis of the costs involved in carrying out the operation. State fees for civil proceedings have so far been imposed on the basis of the costs of civil proceedings and have thus been subject to the principle of the cost of state fees. The purpose of the draft is not to waive the principle of cost, but to make court proceedings cheaper for both the applicant and the State, while at the same time maintaining the cost-orientation of state fees to a reasonable extent, despite lowering state fees. The sole objective of this draft cannot be achieved without simultaneously amending several laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U99	Thank you very much, Mr Randpere. I would like to ask Mrs Marika Tuus-Laul, colleague of the Centre Party, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U100	Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of coming here to perform, but when I heard the previous speaker say that the state fees for addressing us to court were strikingly high, and, of course, they are, I had a desire to remember how they became like this. This was the previous coalition, which in this Chamber took the decision to raise the state fees over and over again. In certain cases they were even 14 times higher than in Sweden, for example, and 6 times higher than in Russia, and in many other countries they are lower. Rein Lang was the man who came into this hall with this bill and said that people don't have to be able to satisfy their low feelings by going to court. The rewards of God's grace and desire to meet the electorate and to meet a man at all will not be lowered. It was still Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, who referred to the fact that Estonia's high fees are contrary to the Constitution. By the way, just the day before yesterday, when we had the Chancellor of Justice in the Commission, I asked him whether the lower fees now offered to him would be satisfactory, and he said that this issue still needs to be dealt with. We drew attention to the high fees already in the previous Riigikogu and also at the beginning of its work when we presented Bill No 10. in 2011. By the way, its first reading was closed that time, but unfortunately, as happens here, it was put to rest, and so it still stands in the drawer. At the same time, we have put forward a number of amendments and one of them has been partially taken into account. So even though the coalition is now doing so on its own initiative, we are glad that state fees are falling. And even though we think that they could be even lower, because, even now, access to justice still remains a privilege for the wealthier people, we support this bill and we give our approval vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U101	Thank you very much, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. And now let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of this draft as a law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, please we will do a check-up of the presence. 82 members of the delegation registered as present; no 19. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law 206 amending the State Tax Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U102	The next item is the third reading of the draft law 175 on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Marko Pomerants to speak as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U103	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. I was also going to speak in the debate on the previous draft, but the performance of my colleague, Mrs Tuus-Laul, was so inspiring that the result of the vote was known in advance. I was sure he could convince you. Thank you for the final result of the previous draft. But now, out of Bill 175. Apparently, several members of the Riigikogu received a letter from journalist Peeter Ernits yesterday asking for answers to five questions. We are talking about the fact that on 17 February 2011, the MPs of the previous term voted unanimously in favour of the draft 286. After a while, it turned out that there was a problem with this bill. And today we are going to vote on bill 175. And now Ernitsa's questions are, why did the adoption of this previous bill fail? To make it clear to all of you and to make sure of the 175 of the bill, I'll explain a little bit. On 17 February 2011, the Riigikogu passed the Act amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws, which was scheduled for 1 January 2012. On 17 May 2011, the Chancellor of Justice presented proposal No 12 to the Riigikogu. This was a proposal in Nestor's speech on pink paper, a formal proposal concerning the existence of problems in communicating and controlling surveillance activities. The Chancellor of Justice found that the provisions of the current Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Surveillance Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will enter into force on 1 January 2012, were incompatible with the Constitution, as the laws did not provide for effective and systematic monitoring of the postponement of the notification of the surveillance operation and, as a result of the postponement of the notification, allowed the person not to be informed at all. The Riigikogu agreed with the Chancellor of Justice: 72 were in favour of the proposal, no one objected and therefore decided to amend the law. So in chronologically logical order, we've reached bill 175. And what is more important: in the meantime, a working group was set up at the Ministry of Justice to analyse the regulation of surveillance activities more widely. As a result of this work, a draft was prepared, one of the objectives of which was to bring the draft adopted by the Riigikogu as a law on 17 February 2011 into line with the Constitution. And if you ask who was in trouble, the answer is very simple: in the end, the new law could not be enforced until the provision on the notification of the surveillance operation was brought into line with the Constitution. On the other hand, this Commission was set up, whose proposals required additional changes to the regulation of surveillance activities, which would take account of the problems in practice and better ensure the protection of fundamental rights of individuals. This evolutionary and logical process is behind us. Now, the question is, do we not think that draft 175 should be revised in turn? The answer is that this cannot be ruled out in any single matter, but all this thorough preliminary work should guarantee that there should be no major changes, there can only be questions in individual details. But we also have a long date of entry into force, so we hope for the best. I am now trying very simply to explain to the rural languages what the fundamental changes are. First, information. The grounds for not notifying the tracking operation and not presenting the data collected in the surveillance operation shall be specified. That's what the Chancellor of Justice was all about. Secondly, there is a specific list of crimes where surveillance activities are possible. It is not the case that any of the criminal offences listed in the Penal Code automatically unravel. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U104	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U105	As far as the so-called "capo committee" is concerned, in cooperation with this committee, we have come to the conclusion that an information system for surveillance activities should be established. It is also reflected in the law that the state must have an overview of the volume and nature of surveillance activities. And another important change is that the owner's inquiries and phone records made to the communications companies are no longer surveillance activities. Ernits is still worried that a lot has been said lately that special services are listening to people uncontrollable. Is this true, and will the adoption of the bill now in the final vote make it any better? To be honest, the first part of the question does not deserve any comment. But I have still confirmed that mass eavesdropping is not done for three reasons. It's not legal, first of all. Secondly, there is no need for this. And the third reason: there is no resource for this, no money, no people. Which does not mean that people are not being eavesdropped in Estonia at all. And the bigger the circle of acquaintances, the greater the chance. The situation will certainly improve, as the fundamental rights of individuals are always sanctioned by the court for surveillance, including eavesdropping. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I call on you to support the draft in the 175 final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U106	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let us now go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Please, let's do the presence check! Seventy-eight comms registered to be present, 23 missing. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws relating thereto 175. Please vote! 73 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U107	The next item is the third reading of the draft anti-corruption law 192 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? As a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Mr Tarmo Tamme, I would like to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U108	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the draft anti-corruption law 192 has reached the third reading of the Chamber. At the same time, the Central Party Group has been concerned about this draft. Despite numerous improvements, one major problem remains in the draft, namely the use of the word 'impact'. In the draft on your tables, the word 'impact' is an vague concept and it remains confusing what it means. Where does the limit of influence and influence run? Who is the right person or the right authority to evaluate it? Our colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, also recently gave a speech here and told you about the local government leaders who might be most affected by this law. According to him, the local government leaders see further problems in the draft. For example, a point that says that an official is aware of the risk of corruption. What is the threat of corruption? Is this a threat arising from relatives of an official or a threat arising from other circumstances concerning his or her identity? In my opinion, the draft law does not state well what exactly the threat of corruption is. There is a risk that local government leaders are afraid to make decisions in certain cases. It is clear that agreements with close relatives may not be concluded, nor should one company prefer one company to another for some personal benefit. So the word 'threat' can be as vague as the word 'effect'. It's very difficult to judge correctly. The Centre Party drew attention to this bottleneck in its amendment, but this is not reflected in the final text. But if some of these concepts remain interpretational in many ways, the law can cause a lot of confusion. Confusion both for those who fill it and for those who control it. At the same time, the Centre Party Group commends the committee which has worked on this draft and all the other people who have dealt with it, and we will not vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U109	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, too, requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, and please let us check the presence! Seventy-four MPs registered to be present, no 27. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law against corruption initiated by the Government of the Republic 192. Please vote! 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U110	We will begin the third reading of the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law amending the Law on maritime safety 158. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U111	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of research and development initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law 162 amending the law on the organisation of research and development initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U112	The next item is the third reading of the draft law 139 on the amendment of the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of the second law. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? Please, Mr Aas, as representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft amendment to the Electricity Market Act is an extremely important draft. This is probably one of the most important drafts that will be adopted by the Riigikogu during this session. With this law, we complete the full opening of the electricity market and create the prerequisites for real, market economy and free competition. Moreover, deeper integration with the northern European markets will significantly increase our energy security. We still remember well the painfulness of the liberal economic reforms carried out in the early 1990s. The transition from a planned economy to a market economy was difficult at first, but all these decisions have justified themselves over time and have also paid off economically. A fully regulated market and monopolistic companies are rightly left only in the few sectors of the economy where limited resources are used in the increased public interest. It can therefore be said that opening up the energy sector to market rules and free competition is, in a way, the end of a long transition period, the really positive results of which will only be achieved in years' time. I would like to thank all the dozens of organisations, companies and officials who were very committed and actively involved in drafting the bill, especially the good officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Economic Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Aas. I would now like to ask Mr Aivar Riisalu, colleague of the premiere, as a representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U115	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I would like to agree with Mr Aasa and say that opening up the electricity market is indeed a normal process in a normal society. On the other hand, the question remains: are we still living in a normal society where all members of society can enjoy the benefits that are needed for a human and quality life? Recently, the press has said quite a lot about the fact that nearly two thirds of the population of Estonia does not know what opening up the electricity market means. The communication work among the population has remained relatively modest, if not insufficient, and for the people the transition to a free market is very sudden. Pessimistic analysts have claimed that electricity in Estonia may start to pay even somewhat more in certain short periods than in our northern neighbours, who, as we know, provide their own energy supply to quite a large extent, using nuclear power in particular. We like to compare ourselves with the Nordic countries. However, I have the question that if we have more or less the same fuel prices as our northern neighbours, if we have more or less the same electricity prices as our northern neighbours, will our living standards be the same as those of our northern neighbours? I see here the very high risk that the competitiveness of medium and small enterprises and what to deny there, also with the ability of many good people in Estonia to pay their electricity bills, can cause quite considerable problems in the transition to the free market. As a result, I am not very optimistic and I think that Estonia could have analysed the opening of the electricity market a little more. Perhaps it would have been wise to trade out of the European Union a little more reasonable conditions, which would have helped us to build the Estonian economy and people's living conditions a little longer and then, already mature, dignified among the dignified, to move to the free market. That train's gone by now. Good people, the Centre Party Group cannot support this draft in this form, because we believe that the main objective of the political forces is to fight for the sustainability of the citizenry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U116	Thank you very much, Mr Riisalu. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law 139 on the amendment of the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws in connection with it. Please vote! 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 27 against and 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U117	We begin the third reading of the draft Act amending the State Fees Act and the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act 203 amending the State Tax Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U118	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Competition initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic 195. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U119	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on natural gas initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I would like to ask my colleague, Kalev Kallo, to speak as a representative of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U120	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, With force majeure, the draft 166, or the draft law amending the natural gas law, is moving towards becoming a law. No side effect or factor can prevent a particular rhythm of movement of a government coalition armored machine. The attention of the National Audit Office, which is an important constitutional institution of the Estonian state, has been neglected, so that there are deficiencies in the preparation of the draft. For example, Estonia-based studies have not been carried out to demonstrate the impact of the chosen solution on increasing energy security, security of gas supply and competition. The National Audit Office has clearly identified these analyses that are most important for the justification of the draft law. The real paradox, however, is that it is with these sound justifications that I am thinking of the need to increase energy security, security of gas supply and competition that the authors of the draft have justified their fingertips. Logic says that since none of these, of course, has been studied at all for every consumer, they are simply sucked out of a pen to knock the consumer off. Such sacred reasoning should convince everyone. The truth is, however, that none of these grounds can be certain. The National Audit Office has claimed that the materials of the European Commission were based on them, but that their relevance in Estonia was not assessed. Secondly, the possible interference with the Constitution is completely overlooked. In his reply to the written question of Riigikogu member Eiki Nestor, the Chancellor of Justice does not clearly state with his own caution that the draft is unconstitutional, but has written clear references to it. The Chancellor of Justice writes that the proposed ownership unbundling requirement is a major violation of the constitutional property rights of the owner of today's transmission network (AS Eesti Gaas) ( § 32). Although the widespread violation of the fundamental right of ownership does not automatically constitute a violation of the fundamental right to property, there is, however, an increased risk of infringement of the fundamental right of ownership in the event of an intense interference. ' This risk will certainly not be mitigated by the removal from the draft of the so-called expropriation clause approved by the originator, since, despite the deletion of this provision, the draft still requires ownership unbundling and provides for it to be guaranteed by the penalty money contained in the main text and the end of the licences. Thirdly, but certainly first of all, from the point of view of the consumer, since the above reasons are less interesting to the consumer, there will be a severe price increase for the gas consumer in four or five years' time. We are very likely to reach exactly the same situation on the gas market, where we are now in the electricity market, in four to five years' time, if the law that we are going to adopt today is also implemented. Network charges and any taxes and tithes imposed on the government will be twice the price for the gas itself. The Centre Party certainly does not want such another price penalty for the consumer and therefore the Group of the Estonian Centre Party will not go along with this advance and vote against the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U121	Thank you very much, Mr Kallo. As a representative of the Kalle Palling Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I say the golden words here that this is a very good bill. The gas market needs to be opened up to competition because competition alone ensures a fair price for gas. Only in this way will Estonian consumers benefit from favourable gas prices on the world market. Only competition gives the right signals for investment in the energy sector. And here I am also thinking of the possible production of domestic biogas in the future. The opening-up of the gas market does not happen either by itself or overnight. Since 2007, we have an open market for de jure gas, but there is no development. Now, by adopting this law, we will take the next step and open the gas market de facto. Of course, as I said here at second reading, the gas market is not yet complete by adopting this law. This is the first step in a comprehensive package of measures to create an Estonian gas market and lay the foundations for the emergence of a single gas market in the Baltic States and Finland. Gas will play a very important role in meeting Europe's climate goals in the future, and this is another example that we are doing the right thing. The new gas connections, the LNG terminal, the Lithuanian-Swedish pipeline, the Baltic Connector are just a few examples, for which the law is acceptable today. Plus new gas suppliers, no supplier wants to enter the Estonian market and in the future a common market between the Baltics and Finland, when one supplier controls the gas network. It is not a free market economy and no company wants to risk it. I repeat once again the most important thing. The Natural Gas Act gives AS Eesti Gaas a reasonable deadline during which it will have to sell the network on its own free choice of terms to the buyer of its choice. The only criterion imposed by the Natural Gas Act is that the new owner must not engage in the production or sale of gas. In this Chamber, it has been argued on several occasions that ownership unbundling will lead to a surge in network charges. As a representative of the Reform Party Group, I confirm that the level of network charges depends on the investments made in the network and not on the identity of the owner of the network. It is also claimed that the separation of the electricity market or, rather, Elering from the Eesti Energia group led to a surge in network charges. Yes, it is true, but this increase in network charges was brought about by investments that Elering has made to improve Estonia's energy security. These are the emergency power plant and Estlink 2, in the future, repairing the connections of Latvia and other grid reinforcements. These are all so that we are better integrated with our neighbouring countries and that our energy security and security of supply are ensured. I admit that we are giving the Competition Authority wide powers to carry out this whole process by this law. The Competition Authority plays an extremely important role in ensuring that Eesti Gaas receives a fair price for its assets by 2015. As I have said before in this remote control, the law contains frames on which the property of Eesti Gaas must be valued. Once again, the Competition Authority must follow these frameworks and ensure that Eesti Gaas receives a fair price for its assets when selling it to a new owner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U123	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Nestor, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Let me be very brief. Having compared basically all four possibilities that Estonia has in this area, our group also considers that an independent network is the most sensible of these options for Estonia as a goal to pursue. Unfortunately, we are not sure that the steps we are taking in this direction are reasonable. At present, there is no certainty that this objective will be achieved at all. The desired deadlines may be pushed into ignorance somewhere and the whole goal may not be achieved. This is also the basis for the final vote on the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U125	Thank you very much, Mr Nestor. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 166. Please vote! 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, with 28 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U126	We begin the third reading of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services, the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and the Draft Act on the Recognition of Causes of Death, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will final vote on the draft act 188 amending the Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic, the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and the Law on the recognition of the cause of death. Please vote! 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U127	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Insurance Pensions Act and the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the other laws relating thereto. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. Let us start with Mrs Tsahkna, the representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U128	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The so-called parental pension bill has reached the third reading in the Riigikogu. It is a signicant political decision that values raising children and increasing the pension assets of the parent who raised the child. The low birth rate is not only a cause of concern in Estonia, but is a problem throughout Europe. Estonia is known in Europe for its exemplary fiscal and monetary policy. At a time when the old European countries are struggling with the problems that we managed to deal with a few years ago, Estonia dares to take steps to solve the substantive problems. The results of the census are harsh. Our population has decreased by 5.5% in ten years. The number of older people is increasing and the proportion of children in the population is decreasing. Therefore, any measure that values raising children is essential for the survival of the population. Many European countries have thought about the value of raising children, but few have come to action. Although Estonia's birth rates have improved in recent years, concerns about the decline of our people are still very high. It is essential to develop specific long-term measures that will not look ahead for one, two or five years but much further. In Europe, a number of researchers have proposed to link the number of children to the size of the pension so as to influence, among other things, the birth rate behaviour in a positive direction. The parental pension applied in Estonia is a pension supplement that has not been established in any other Member State of the European Union in a similar form. Therefore, Estonia has the opportunity to be a pioneer throughout Europe. Population growth must be the most important priority for the Estonian state, not only in terms of promoting the birth rate, but also in terms of raising children. Various studies have shown that the pension assets of parents are smaller than those who do not have children for various reasons. Raising children requires time, money, and often giving up a variety of career opportunities. As a result of the introduction of a parental pension to be decided in this Chamber today, the parents of a child born before 2013 will receive an additional pension supplement of EUR 184.4 for one child, EUR 369.6 for two children and EUR 554 per year for three children. If each child is added, an additional pension is taken into account for the parent. If the child is born after 1 January 2013, the parent will be paid an estimated EUR 1134 over a period of three years into the second pillar of the pension, which according to current forecasts should be equal to, or even higher than, the payout of the first pillar pension. Parental pension means a significant pension supplement relating to the number of children. For example, the parent of two children will receive an additional monthly pension per year, i.e. 13 pensions per year. One of the main objectives of parental pension is to make the living environment more favourable to birth rates. It is inevitable that one parent will be left out of work for some time after the child is born and this will reduce the amount of his or her future pension. A parent's pension helps the parent raising the child to prevent a future fall in pension due to loss of earnings during the child's upbringing period. This will also help to prevent the risk of poverty, especially for families with many children. One parent, both mother and father, can receive a parental pension. Whichever one is going to get, we'll have to deal with each other. If more than one child has been raised, the parental pension can also be divided: the mother receives one child and the father receives another. It is important to know that current pensioners who have raised children will also receive parental pension. Many parents receive this pension for raising several children. That is precisely the question that was put by the multiple parents to the Social Affairs Committee: does a parental pension be taken into account for each child? The answer is yes. For example, the parents of triples will receive a three-fold parental pension. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U129	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U130	It is important to know that the money used for parental pension does not come from other pensioners. It will not be taken away from any pension in the form of any cent, but the state will put more money from its budget. The parental pension adds EUR 44 million per year to the existing pension system, since 2017 when the parental pension system is fully operational. There is no doubt that raising children is a job alongside joy and an extremely responsible job. By establishing a parental pension, we value raising children more than before, as well as creating a more solid basis for the survival of the Estonian people. I would like to thank all the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, as well as the officials of the Riigikogu committees, as well as colleagues here in the Riigikogu, who have contributed to the development of this complex but noble draft. I would also like to thank our partners: the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families, the Estonian Association of Pensioners, multiple parents and the Estonian Association of Youth Associations, who have participated in the drafting and approved the content of this draft. Finally, I would also like to thank all the parties that are represented in this House. Some parties have also moderated their criticism of this draft, but I feel that the implementation of parental pension is generally supported. This is a sign that the question of the survival of the Estonian people is cross-party, and it gives hope in the future for other political decisions to support the growth of the people. Thank you very much. I very much hope that the draft implementing parental pension will receive great support today in this Chamber at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U131	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Marika Tuus-Lauli!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U132	Just in case, may I have a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U133	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group considers that the idea of a parental pension in itself, if it were well thought out and actually feasible, would be all right. Today's bill is certainly not well thought out. We think that this has rushed, as Mart Jesse, Chairman of the Management Board of the Association of Insurance Companies, finds the biggest specialists of parental pension in Estonia. Let me remind you of his position. He has told the Minister for Social Affairs that this is an extremely expensive measure, that our pension insurance system is, and will continue to be, in deficit and, moreover, that it does not, in his view, affect fertility behaviour. Last time, I said that the pension insurance budget is negative: about 2% of GDP. The pension fund is in deficit with almost EUR 200 million, the social tax received has not been sufficient for pensions for several years, and the pension fund reserve that we put money in and out of when we were in government has long been spent. For years, pensions have been backed up by other budget resources. According to SEB's forecast yesterday, an additional EUR 18 billion would be needed to ensure that current young people who retire in about 30 years' time would receive a viable pension in the future. At the same time, about EUR 1 billion has been raised in pension pillars over the last ten years. If we continue at this rate, we could only get EUR 12 billion in 30 years, and that is not enough, of course. People are hoping for public retirement and expectations are extremely high, while the number of people in employment that is falling over the years will not be able to guarantee decent pensions in the future. It is suggested that people should collect their own pension money in the third pillar, but it is not properly operational. We know that the pension system is unsustainable, but the right coalitions have done nothing to change it. Only cosmetic changes have been made. We ask here: where else can I take money for parental pensions? It is easy to put a populist bill on paper and to gather votes with it, too, but there is no money to carry it out. At the same time, people of retirement age are constantly getting more, which is very nice in itself, and people's life expectancy is growing, while children are few. We all know that Estonia is the country with the fastest ageing population in Europe. Today we have about 17% of people aged 65 and over, but already almost a third in 2050. Parental pension would result in a surge in costs. Next year it will take EUR 2.8 million, but in 2017 it will be 44 million, and we will not have that money. In our opinion, this is once again a political bill full of air, without the involvement of top specialists, scientists, financial experts, social politicians. This is the same populist promise as the IRL slogan to firmly control and even reduce home expenses. We know that housing costs have increased dramatically and represent just over 40% of the total price increase. The unprecedented rise in the price of electricity is also ahead of us today, the coalition ambassadors here voted in favour of it. There are other examples, even free higher education, the promise to lower the price of water and the 13th old-age pension. This promise is of the same category. Is the prospect of starting a slightly higher pension in forty years, and this is actually a question of having someone to give birth now? Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi has also admitted that he probably does not. Social security would give birth right now: kindergarten places, higher child benefits, free expansion of school meals, money for hobby groups, higher pay, better work and perceived state support. The European Commission also pointed out last week that our extremely expensive parental pension system is paralysing subsidies. For example, in 2011, it took 1.1% of GDP, which is one of Europe's most generous in terms of duration and amounts, while it takes away some 63% of the cost of family benefits. These proportions should be changed. Today, if we do not know what the sources of financing for this legislative amendment are, unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of the draft. It's a very crude bill, and it doesn't make sense to press a green button like a rubber stamp. We need, above all, support for families with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U135	Thank you. I now invite a representative of the Social Democratic Party to the Riigikogu Chair. Heljo Pikhof, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U136	Ladies and gentlemen, The results of last week's public census show a sad picture. The Estonian population has decreased by 5.5% over the decade. For a small country, the reduction in the number of permanent residents in 10 years is 75,816 people in irreparable harm. That is why it seems cynical for some of the leading politicians to say that the population decline was smaller than feared. The main causes of population decline are two: low birth rates and high emigration. Of course, in this context, it is a pleasure to hear the words of government politicians about the fundamental changes needed in political decisions in order to improve the demographic situation and that special attention must be paid to children's and families' policies. It is also a welcome proposal to discuss the results of the census as a key national issue in Parliament's plenary session. Will the words finally be followed by actions? It always comes down to choices. So far, the repeated proposals by the Social Democrats to increase state support for children and families have remained a voice in the desert. With the exception of one and a half years of parental pay, the current state support for families with children is merely marginal. Very many children will not be born if the state does not contribute to the creation of an environment conducive to raising a child, if parents lack confidence in how and if they are able to raise their children. Children's benefits have not increased for nine years in a row, in essence they continue to shrink. Apart from parental benefits, children's benefits amounted to 1.4% in 2000 and only 0.7% of GDP last year. State programme 'Every child's kindergarten place! ' is in the shadow of death, the rules on parental benefit are still rigid and do not favour reconciliation between work and family life. The idea of the IRL that the organisation of the parental pension system is an excellent measure to prevent the extinction of Estonians is, to put it mildly, a fool. Can you imagine a young woman thinking about a parental pension when she gives birth to her child when she's 25 or 30? And what's more important is that our women have begun to give birth in their old age. The mother's average age at birth was 29.5 years last year, and this could mean the risk that other-third children would not be born. Parental pension is not a decisive push for an increase in the number of children; on the better hand, it is either a consolation prize or a 13th wage for the selfless work of raising children sometime in the evening of life, almost 40 years after the birth of children, when God gives so many days of life to the parent. In itself, re-establishing parental pensions would be a very worthwhile step, some sign of the recognition of the work of parents by society. When parents start receiving a higher pension, it will smooth out the injustices that exist today in society. Unless a bill that is supposed to be approved today brings new injustice. In particular, the first pillar of the pension from which the parental supplement is currently paid is a purely solidarity system. Whether the mother or father is going to receive a pension supplement is essentially decided at a time when the parents actually retire. If, for example, the father of the family is much older than the spouse and thus remains on the old-age pension early than the wife, he may receive a pension supplement for raising his children. Later, he/she has the right to opt out of his/her supplementary pension for the benefit of his/her wife if he/she wishes, while in the case of several children, the pension supplement can be divided. In the event of the death of one parent, the other shall be entitled to a pension supplement for the whole of the child. Unfortunately, in about one out of 100 cases, it is impossible to agree who deserves extra money for raising older children, and then the court decides. In principle, however, you can be sure that the parent who receives the pension supplement has actually raised his or her child or children for at least eight years. This is the case for parents whose children were born before 1991, and for parents whose children were born after 1 January 1991, the bill also settles it in a reasonable way. However, for parents whose children are born after 1 January 2013, a rather specific and unfair arrangement has been designed. The so-called Parental Pensions Act provides for the payment of additional funds to either parent's funded pension account during the first three years of the child's life. This may lead to a situation in which a parent who has not actually raised a child will receive a parental pension. The savings pension is the personal property of people, and the parental pension payments cannot be recovered from there later either with worm or gunpowder, nor with a court of law. Thus, the pension supplement may begin to become a so-called gastrolational parent, who has long since left his family and perhaps another family and has not seen his children at all, not to mention taking care and teaching. Worse still: the parent who grows up to be a child's adult over a long period of years simply loses the pension supplement because his/her funded pension account has not been credited a red cent to the child's third-year-old. Women whose lost spouses do not want to perform their parenting duties and shirk the child's livelihood are already difficult in our society. However, the draft Parental Pensions Act hides new risks and new injustices. The Socialist requirement is to treat all parents equally. That is why we proposed to amend the draft law so that the pension supplement is paid from the first pillar, i.e. the solidarity system, to all parents who are entitled to additional years. And a parent who has raised children must have at least eight years of parenting. Unfortunately, the worthy proposals of the Socialists were not taken into account by the coalition partners. According to all studies, parental pension is not a magic wand that would make women give birth to the two or three children they wanted. Your people must be valued, your children must be supported, only this will help keep the people together and the country to stay together. Today Estonia is characterised by a stratification characteristic of feudal society: we have just over 63000 children and adolescents living in poverty. The amount of child benefit is only EUR 19 per month. Finally, I would like to say that the long-term social democrat Eiki Nestor is already predicting that in 2019 political parties will have a new electoral promise, all of which will promote each other's victory before the elections. However, it is very important that the Estonian state learns to value its own people a little. Potential parents should sense that every child is welcome and welcome in our country, so they do not go abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U137	Thank you. Of course, according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the speaker has the right to reply locally for up to two minutes. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U138	Thank you. Since my name was named, I'm gonna use that right. I turn to all those who apply to the Riigikogu in 2019. You can already write down your first election promise because by then it has become clear that some parents, along with their raised funded pension account, have given up raising their child. And if you run for office in the Riigikogu, you can safely promise that you will do the rounds of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U139	Thank you. Let's keep going. I invite a representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to the Chair of the Riigikogu. Maret Maripuu, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Every button push in this hall is important and affects people's lives in the country. However, some decisions are more important than others. We speak and hear that politics consists of measures that are perhaps difficult to grasp in everyday life, but which certainly produce positive results in the long term. Today, we are talking about one of these measures, the parental pension. The results of the recent census confirm that although our demographic situation has deteriorated less than feared, it is still not as good as we would like. No matter how we analyse the figures concerned, we look at the statistics, the fact remains a fact: we are less open. There must be more than one reason. We need to look for opportunities and make decisions that will get us out of the status of a country with a shrinking population. We've done some things, and today we're taking the next step. In order to live on the level that the bourgeois spirit thinks is right and proper, we must work hard. The birth of children meant a considerable loss of income for the average Estonian family a few decades ago. The most important compensation for such a situation is the parental benefit we have put in place, which is intended to guarantee the parent's income even when he or she is at home with the child. Parental benefit is not a social benefit. The parental benefit is compensation for the loss of earnings corresponding to the social security contributions paid before the child is given. The studies confirm that this measure is working well. Since the introduction of parental benefit, there have been more births. It is up to us to make such decisions so that the decline of the population turns to lasting growth. We have now further developed parental benefit; the new measure is parental pension, which I hope will be approved by the Riigikogu today. This ensures an additional pension income for a person who has devoted most of his life to raising children. We do not believe that this innovation will exponentially increase the birth rate, but it is certainly a step in the right direction. Firstly, it adds confidence that the problems of families and children remain important to the state. Secondly, we will achieve greater justice by equalising child rearing in a purely economic sense with any other work that is necessary and recognised by society. This recognition has a clear financial output. Thirdly, we will gradually shape a generation of economically independent and better-insured grandmothers and grandfathers, in which even the youngest members of society will be more quickly than they might think. But no matter how we believe in our country and put responsibility on the state, it is never the state that teaches a child a bedtime story, a little man a wooden boat, or a little girl a dandelion prank. Love for love, but as French writer Francoise Sagan said, having money does not make loving and raising children any worse. Money, in this case, a parent's pension, is not instead of love, but if it's a little more, it'll be very supportive to love. And it is love that our families remain and that our country remains the two most important things given to us. So we have, in any case, put in place one important support for families and the state with regard to parental pensions. The Reform Party considers family policy to be one of the most important policies of our country, or indeed the most important one. We support the draft law establishing the parental pension and we are convinced that we will soon discuss and confirm new steps in support of Estonian families in this Chamber. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U141	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 213. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 213 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 58 votes against and 3 abstentions, the draft law amending the law on funded pensions and the law on state pension insurance and related amendments to other laws has been adopted by the Government of the Republic as 213 laws. Today's 11th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U142	Let's move on to agenda item 12, which is the second reading of Riigikogu's decision 'Agreed to increase the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund' by the Government of the Republic. Speaking chair, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby give an overview of the discussion of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Acceptance to increase the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund' in the context of second reading. The purpose of the draft is to give consent to an increase in the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund of 175 million euros and to empower Eesti Pank to carry out the necessary operations to increase the quota. The draft was discussed by the Committee on Finance at its meeting on 29 May and 4 June. No amendments to the draft were received by the deadline. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda on Wednesday, 6 June, that is, today, to conclude the second reading and to put it to a final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U144	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U145	Good waitress! I am still asking: will there be an extra burden on the state budget or will there not be an additional burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U146	This is an increase in Eesti Pank's quota and it does not directly affect the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U147	Tarmo Leinatamm, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U148	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Is the budget of Eesti Pank not part of the state budget of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U149	These are non-budgetary resources; they are not directly included in the budget. The potential financial investments of Eesti Pank are not taken into account as financial transactions in the budget of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U150	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No proposals have been received to amend the draft 230 and the proposal of the lead committee is also a final vote at second reading. Dear colleagues, let's start preparing the final vote. I shall put to the final vote a draft decision of 230. Please take a stand and vote. 55 delegates voted in favour, one against and no abstentions. Draft 230 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic of Estonia to increase the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund has been adopted as a decision. Today's 12th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U151	We will move on to agenda item 13 - the second reading of draft Act 231 on the approval of amendments to the Statute of the International Monetary Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U152	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This is the second reading of the draft law approving amendments to the Statute of the International Monetary Fund. The objectives of the draft were also presented at first reading. I repeat here: it is with the aim of approving amendments to the Statute of the International Monetary Fund, which reform the IMF governance framework in order to make IMF governance more flexible and to increase the legitimacy of the decision-making process. In this context, it is considered necessary to specify the size and structure of the Board of Directors. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting on 29 May and 4 June. No amendments were received within the deadline. The Committee on Finance took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on Wednesday 6 June, to close the second reading and to put the draft to a final vote. All the decisions were once again consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U153	Good co-worker, thank you. There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No proposals have been received to amend the draft 231. The proposal of the lead committee is also a final vote during the second reading of the draft. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put the draft law 231 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 57 Members voted in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The draft law approving amendments to the Statute of the International Monetary Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. Today's 13th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U154	We are going to the 14th item, which is the second reading of the draft law on public service initiated by the Government of the Republic. Väino Linde, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, will be present!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U155	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In general, it is not the custom to start a performance here in the Riigikogu to quote some living persons; it was added when this person is a political person. But as I dealt with this bill, I remembered a piece of writing that our former Foreign Minister and today's Head of State have begun: 'Money can serve many, few can serve the country. " This statement could be the motto of a new draft law on public service. But now to the bill. We recall that the draft law on the Civil Service Act is primarily aimed at modernising the legal regulation of the public service and resolving the problems that have arisen since 1996 when the current Civil Service Act is being implemented. It can also be recalled how the draft is being dealt with. The first reading took place on April 4. We were expecting amendments by 25 April. a. Many thanks to all who participated in this process: the political groups of the Riigikogu, the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu and the Economic Commission and the social organisations! The Ministry of Justice was also a very practical representative of the initiator of the bill. The table contains 180 amendments. Some of them were initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself, taking into account the views and observations of stakeholders. I am pleased (I think I am expressing the position of the whole Commission) that the representatives of the Government of the Republic were extremely cooperative and willing to compromise on this draft. I believe that, therefore, the sharp corners of this bill were polished. I am quite sure that a number of problems, such as those related to the private autonomy of local authorities, which were highlighted by the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and also our colleagues from the Centre Party Group, were resolved in this draft. Also, as is sometimes said politically, the road roller tactics were not used in this draft. When we look at the table of amendments, we see that not only proposals from the government or the coalition have been taken into account, but also very much of the opposition's views and proposals have been taken into account, both from the representatives of the Central Party Group and from the Social Democrats. What happened here in the Riigikogu on Wednesday last week could also be seen as a certain revision for the opposition. So thank you, my good colleague, Eiki Nestor, for your pointy eye in reviewing the additional documents of the draft from a formal legal point of view. This is also something that needs to be done sometimes. In preparing the second reading, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft in four sessions. We did so thoroughly and not in office silence, but invited representatives of all the organisations and political groups that had tabled any amendments to the Commission. There were two more sessions between last Wednesday and today. The substantive meetings took place after the first reading of the draft on 10 April, 7 May, 15 May and 28 May. As early as 15 May, the Commission decided that when the bill reaches the second reading of the Riigikogu hall, the Commission's wish to conclude the second reading of the bill is the Commission's intention. There have been complaints (not in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, but recently in one meeting with officials) why so many amendments do not provide for the possibility of interrupting the second reading of the draft from the Commission's point of view. I admit, there could have been such a chance. It has sometimes also been used when there have been many amendments. On the other hand, the substantive aspects of this draft have been dealt with for a very long time and the main issues of the draft have been dealt with, in certain cases, by an amendment to the definition of the concept of official, an amendment to the definition of the salary components of an official, changes to the professional benefits of officials and the time factor relating thereto, which in some cases has remained the same compared to the original text of the draft. Therefore, the Commission decided not to delay the procedure for the draft, but to take it to the third reading next Wednesday, provided that the second reading was completed today. But what did the Commission think? He felt that it was necessary to extend the period for the entry into force of almost all the text. That is what we have done to ensure that officials have time to take decisions, that the Ministry of Finance has time to finalise legislation below the law, and that the municipalities in turn have time to develop their own legislation on how to implement the new law on public service. So if the date of entry into force was originally scheduled for 1 January 2013, this table and the draft are now 1 April 2013. To conclude, it is not easy to apply everything that is written here. Nor can it be ruled out that there are still different views on the principle of one or the other draft. If so, one or the other person concerned may turn to the Supreme Court to obtain an official position as to whether one or the other provision of the Act complies with the Constitution. We have debated, for example, the aspect of legitimate expectations. In general, however, the Commission considers all this to be a natural course of action. The great Machiavelli, who lived centuries ago, said about that there is nothing more suicidal to the country than carrying out any reforms. This is undoubtedly what the new Civil Service Act means in terms of public service. How good or bad it's all worked out, isn't it time? For example, the current Civil Service Act valued a stable service relationship and the long - term commitment of officials to the public service. On the other hand, the official could even grow roots if he wanted to have a longer retirement period. The principle of this bill is different, because of the loss of these benefits. How this will affect the quality and availability of public services in the country must be demonstrated by time. One thing is clear: the draft has, however, been drafted in a spirit of better recognition, and it has eliminated many of the problems and shortcomings of the current Civil Service Act. But we talked about these at the first reading of the bill. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is of the opinion that the Ministry of Finance, which is the institution responsible for all its implementation according to the draft Civil Service Act, must ensure uniform interpretation of the concepts of officials and employees. It must do so through a procedure for coordinating configurations, either by issuing guidance material or by producing a manual. I will also talk a little bit about the key issues of this draft. The concerns of the trade unions and of our good colleagues' social democrats were certainly issues related to the right to strike during the procedure for this draft. The Commission considers that the public service reform provides for a much more favourable regulation for persons in terms of the right to strike compared to the current situation. Currently, the Act on collective labour dispute resolution provides that strikes are prohibited in all government agencies and municipalities. The draft law on the Civil Service Act extends the circle of persons with the right to strike, because when the draft is implemented as a law, there are not only officials in the public service, but there are employees working on the basis of an employment contract, and they are not subject to a ban on strike. It should be borne in mind that the right to strike is not an unlimited right; its use can be subject to restrictions and restrictions by law. Yes, of course, international law does not comply with the full public service strike restriction, but it is justified to impose strike restrictions depending on the function performed by persons in the public service. Since, according to the draft law, the circle of officials has been narrowed and the concept of official has been defined through the exercise of public authority, we are of the opinion that, therefore, the restriction on the right to strike is much more lenient than the current situation and is also in line with international law. A little more should be said about constitutional principles or the constitutional principle of legitimate expectations or legal certainty. Here reference is made to questions relating to the benefits of officials. Let's take extra days off. Officials are entitled under certain conditions to earn up to 10 calendar days of additional leave under the current Civil Service Act. The new Civil Service Act does not provide for this. The holidays earned at the time of the entry into force of the Act will also expire within four years. It can therefore be rightly argued that, as a result, the legal position of the officials has deteriorated to a certain extent. However, the Commission believes that this is in line with the principle of legitimate expectations. We were here to assist with the Supreme Court's decisions. In accordance with the principle of legitimate expectations, everyone must have the opportunity to shape their lives in a reasonable expectation that the rights and obligations conferred on him by the legal order will remain stable and will not turn into a striking disadvantage for the individual. The amendment to the law must not be word-flashing with the subjects of the law. At the same time, however, the principle of legitimate expectations does not mean that the restriction of the rights of persons or the termination of benefits is at all unacceptable. The principle of legitimate expectations does not require the regulation of the current law to be like a rocky facet, but the legislator can redesign legal relations according to changed circumstances. As a result, the situation of some members of society may inevitably deteriorate. But making a decision on which reforms to carry out and whether or not to favour social groups with reforms is the competence of the legislator. It is also written in black and white in one of the Supreme Court's decisions. In accordance with the principle of democracy, no one can make a promise that the law will remain unchanged forever. We must also take this into account when dealing with other drafts. The rigid linking of future legislators with previous choices made by their predecessors would be contrary to the principle of democracy. It is important, however, that the right to an addressee is given sufficient time to get used to, and to understand, the changes. In our opinion, these ideas have been taken exactly into account in this draft, since the deadline for the entry into force of the law is nine months after the Riigikogu has adopted it. As I said, four-to-five years can be spent on accumulated extra days of leave, and there is also room for more retirement. Officials are not immediately deprived of the rights they deserve. Officials have been given the possibility that additional days already earned at the time of entry into force of the draft can be used for a certain period of time. From our point of view, it is important that the official cannot have the legitimate expectation that new days of additional leave will arise because he has not yet earned them in his work. We also received support for this position from one of the Supreme Court's decisions, which, while dealing with the student loan and its repayment and all related matters, the Supreme Court had brought such a principle to the attention of the Supreme Court. Let me talk a little bit about the opt-out on holiday, which has also been introduced under special laws. Here is a provision that officials of security authorities may, in justified cases, be granted additional paid leave of up to 10 days. The Commission considered this provision to be very important. It was somewhat different in the original text of the draft act. It was simply stated that additional leave may be granted for the exemplary performance of the duties, only if the official is working very well. However, we found that there may also be situations in which, in order to be able to continue working properly, an official needs to be given additional leave under certain conditions. The holidays of the courts and the prosecutor's office were another problem. The leave of judges of the Supreme Court is currently 56, the leave of judges of the courts of first and second instance 49 calendar days. According to the Law on Public Prosecutors, the leave for prosecutors is 42 and the leave for prosecutors is 49 calendar days. According to the law, this option will be maintained for two years and the transitional period will be four years in total; unused leave can be used for another two years. Why is this somewhat different from the general regulation of officials? Because judges and prosecutors are not on extra leave here, but the law provides for longer annual leave. We received a comprehensive letter from the Estonian Academic Law Society asking us to leave the regulation of the vacations of judges as it is now, not to start reducing the vacations of judges in the future through the Civil Service Act. The Commission discussed this for quite a while, but we did not support this position. At the same time, we left the little doorbell open. We admitted that, under the direction of the Ministry of Justice, a judicial reform was once again planned. I've seen a few of these years ago, but now there's a judicial reform. It is not excluded that it will come back to these questions. An opportunity is given to earn another five years of retirement. As I said, in the case of holidays, this decision will be made more quickly. The argument here is that pension system reforms have broader and longer-term effects and therefore the transition period must also be longer. After all, we thought that pension decisions were made by individuals for a much longer period than those related to holidays. The Commission was discussing another such question, which is worth knowing. Currently, the collective labour dispute resolution law provides for a dispute resolution mechanism in the authorities that are subject to a strike ban. Officials are under a legal ban on strike. No one plans to change that. If disputes arise, they shall be settled either by negotiation, by a national conciliator or by a court or tribunal. The Employee Trustee Act and the Trade Union Act also extend to the public service. There will be no changes to the current Civil Service Act. There are still different points of view. More can be said about them, perhaps when we come to the amendments. But, as I said, our position is that today the second reading of the draft should be completed and the draft taken to the third reading next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U156	Thank you. Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U157	The most remarkable of the proposals made by the Commission itself is that, in the case of the right to strike, the concept of the Government of the Republic was broken up. Strikes are forbidden by officials, everyone else is allowed. The Commission has proposed, which has also gone through, that this principle does not apply to the Rescue Board. In the case of rescuers, the feeling remains that, in the interests of employing cheaper workers, some people are being transformed into employees on the basis of a contract of employment, but in the light of other interests, they are still completely forbidden to strike. How did the Commission come up with this, and why did it withdraw from the general rule that the government had put forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U158	Thank you. We considered it necessary to leave this provision in this draft as you have pointed out. I think this is the right approach, given the situation where rescue officers work and everything they have to be responsible for or good for.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U159	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U160	Good manager! Good waitress! It is written in the draft that the Act will enter into force on 1 April 2013, while the four sections will enter into force in general. What does that really mean? Is there a rapid wave of lay-offs for public officials to be expected? It is precisely those paragraphs that facilitate redundancy, which shorten notice periods from redundancy and alter compensation payments, that are among those which enter into force in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U161	Thank you, good questioner! You've been on the bill almost as long as I have, you know the original text of this bill. I am quite convinced that the wave of redundancy cannot and must not be brought about by this law. It's not like they're only expecting a date to fall. However, as the initiator of the draft act, the government considered it appropriate to proceed with the immediate amendment of a couple of provisions on the basis that these provisions could not give rise to a dispute over legitimate expectations or related matters. The aim, as we discussed earlier, was to bring the provisions of the Civil Service Act in many ways into line with the current law on employment contracts, at least to make them comparable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U162	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet waitress! Paragraph 61 (4) of the draft provides that once the economic downturn is over and the public authority's payroll fund is increased, the authority must find a way to restore the basic salary. Why the unprecedented sluggish wording that neither regulates nor obliges anything? Why can't it say here that the basic salary has to be restored?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U164	Thank you. The Commission is actually very pleased with this wording. As you can see, it is also underlined in the draft text, which means that it is a new provision that is added to the original text of the draft text. When the Ministry of Justice initially submitted its text to us, it stated that the authority would have to look for a chance to restore the basic salary. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has made it more concrete, and now the opportunity to re-establish the basic salary must be found. These situations can be very different. The agency's payroll fund may be increased not only in order to bless persons already in office with a higher salary, but may need to increase the number of staff and there may be other reasons. Here is exactly the wording that we need to find a way to restore the basic salary. We can't exactly spell it out in the law because situations are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U165	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Paragraph 59 deals with the infamous ban on strike by officials. Paragraph 2 of that paragraph is an amendment to the second reading. Would you mind unraveling the word 'disturbing'? I ask this because it is important for the authorities whether or not they can carry out tasks. That would be a very clear wording. The word "disturbing" is between earth and heaven. There may be a situation where state officials would like to put positive pressure on the country on some issues, but do not dare to do so because the content of the word 'disturbing' is left unthinkable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U167	We have included this paragraph in the draft text, given that, if at least half of the officials of the authority are involved in the collective pressure action, it must have been carried out in such a way that it does not hinder the performance of the authority's duties. We found that the need to provide a public service is much wider and more important than the need to achieve the aim of the pressure response. Well, there's a point of discretion here. When designing a pressure response, officials always need to find the right place and time to make their demands in order to get the desired result.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U168	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I was confused by this concept of legitimate expectations. Take a finger, there's something today, but there's not tomorrow. How can you possibly understand that? After all, there is no legitimate expectation at all if it is the way you put it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U170	I'm sure it is. Certainly, the state must not act like I said. But it can't be that one or the other provision is, figuratively speaking, cut into stone. If a State decides to change a situation, there must be sufficient reasons for doing so and sufficient time must be provided. There are very different situations when and under what conditions this principle applies, when the behaviour of the State is in line with it. The Supreme Court has written it quite properly in its judgment, but in terms of saving time, I did not begin to explain all this in detail. That's how it is. I can show you these materials later.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U171	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U172	Thank you. Good performer! People in the public service lose their social guarantees; they only have a little longer leave. Longer leave due to service will be lost and many other things will disappear. At the same time, however, these people still have a ban on strike. I do not mean those who will work under a contract of employment. Doesn't this thing seem a little rough? Guarantees will be withdrawn, but nothing can be demanded.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U173	Thank you. I have been involved in quite a number of public appearances during the procedure for the draft. Officials have been concerned about one provision or another, but the ban on strike has not been such a cause for concern to the people of Estonia. The Commission took the view that the situation would improve compared to the existing situation, as I said. Since the official is now defined through the exercise of a public function, we did not have another route and opportunity to apply the full ban on strike to officials. However, I admit that there were longer discussions in the Commission on this matter, there were different views. It is not excluded that we will also be able to express our position on the amendments here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U174	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U175	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! My deep concern is that most of the staff of security structures go under the Civil Service Act, as if they are not supposed to strike. My question concerns the Defence League. Did the Commission mention in its proceedings on the draft law that there was a trend in the Defence League, for example, in the creation of officials to replace the frame defence forces? Imagine now that Estonia is going through a difficult time and needs to deliver weapons, but the Defence League gunner has not come to work because he has a desire to strike. He is not covered by the Civil Service Act, he is employed on the basis of a contract of employment and has full right to strike. Why, for example, did the Defence League employees remain outside the scope of the Civil Service Act? This is a very sad case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U176	Thank you, good questioner! Through the Civil Service Act, we get a definition of the concept of an official. The Defence League, as an organisation, is not a state structure in this sense. Nor could we, with the best of will, by means of this draft, define the defence allies as state officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U177	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your introductory speech, you said that there might be some difficulties in implementing this law in the future. The Commission was certainly discussing what difficulties might then arise in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U179	Thank you, good questioner and penguin. It was part of the debate in the Commission, and we really spent time on it. As the representative of the Estonian Union of Cities, Tallinn's city secretary and other representatives of the Cities Association were present. Their view was that if, in the case of deserved benefits, such as additional leave days, a time limit was set (the draft law states four years), this might not be in line with the Constitution. There may be different views. I therefore also argued that there could be disputes over the parts of the draft concerning the reduction or loss of the officials' professional benefits and the deadlines for doing so. In public appearances, I'm allowed to go to court several times. I thought it was right to say this to you today, the good decision-makers we're here. But the Commission took all this into account. However, we tried, as I said, to sand down the sharp corners of the bill so that the law would be appropriate and would contribute to the reform of the public service in the best sense of the word.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U180	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U181	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 14 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 14, against 49, with one abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 15 is from the lead committee. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U182	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U183	Thank you. Let's start preparing for the vote. I shall put to the vote the 17th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 15 votes for, 50 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 19 is from the lead committee. Amendment 20 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 21 is from the lead committee. Amendment 22 is from the lead committee. The 23rd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. The 24th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U184	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U185	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 24th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu, 48 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 25th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take full account. Amendment 26 is from the lead committee. Amendment 27 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take full account. The 28th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take the substance into account. Amendment 29 is from the lead committee. Amendment 30 is from the lead committee. Amendment 31 has been tabled by the lead committee. The 32nd amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 33rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance. Amendment 34 is from the lead committee. 35. Amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is to take full account of. The 36th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U186	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U187	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 36, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 31, against 49. The amendment was not supported. The 37th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take full account. 38th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U188	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U189	Thank you. Here's what we're gonna do. I shall put to the vote the 38th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 14 votes to 47, 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. 39. Amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is to take full account of. The 40th is from the lead commission. 41. is from the Social Democratic Party Group; the position of the commission is to consider the substance. The 42nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U190	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U191	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 42nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 15, against 49, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. 43rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take the substance into account. Forty-four is from the lead commission. The 45th is from the lead commission. 46. is from the Social Democratic Party Group, the position of the lead committee after the debate is to take full account of. Amendment 47 is from the lead committee. The 48th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U192	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U193	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 48 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 31, against 49. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 49 is from the lead committee. The 50th is from the lead commission. The 51st amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U194	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U195	Thank you for this proposal. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 51st amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 15, against 49, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 52 is from the lead committee. Amendment 53 is from the lead committee. 54th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U196	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U197	Thank you! I shall put to the vote the 54th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 32, against 46, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 55th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. Amendment 56 is from the lead committee. Amendment 57 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U198	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 57th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 32 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this amendment, against 49. The amendment was not supported. 58th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. The 59th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 60 is from the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U200	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U201	I shall put to the vote the 60th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu, 62 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 61 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U202	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U203	I shall put to the vote the 61st amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 14, 67 votes against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 62 is from the lead committee. Amendment 63 is from the lead committee. Amendment 64 is from the lead committee. Amendment 65 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U204	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U205	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 65th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. Thirty-two, against 49. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 66 is from the lead committee. Amendment 67 is from the lead committee. Amendment 68 is from the lead committee. Amendment 69 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to consider the substance. Amendment 70 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take full account. Amendment 71 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U206	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U207	I shall put to the vote the 71st amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 14, no votes against 48, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 72 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take full account. Amendment 73 is from the lead committee. Amendment 74 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U208	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U209	Thanks for the offer, let's do it! I shall put to the vote the 74th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 30, against 47, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 75 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The 76th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U210	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U211	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 76 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 29, against 48, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 77 is from the lead committee. The 78th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U212	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U213	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U214	Honourable waitress! Please, take a look at §61 (3) and (4). I'm going to ask you a more complicated question. I'm not gonna talk smart. I'm gonna ask you a practical question. The budget of one authority consists of several parts, including the payroll fund. Salaries may be reduced under paragraph 3 if the budget of the authority is reduced. But to look for something and maybe find something under paragraph 4 only if the payroll increases. This, however, is only one part of the budget of the authority. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U215	We in the Commission thought that this approach was in any case correct and would contribute to the availability of a public service. If such a reduction is not foreseen, then it may happen that one morning a public service will not be available, as the state has simply spent the money for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U216	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U217	Thank you. Good waitress! Local government issues have also been discussed at length. One group of people who, according to the new Civil Service Act, are no longer members of the official body is employees of the local government associations. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U218	Yes, there was a question of why, according to this draft, the employees of the local government offices would no longer be treated as officials. The reason is the same as I already told my good colleague Aivar. Their functions and the definition of their activities are no longer compatible with the concept of an official within the meaning of this draft. They are not in public service in that sense. Their activities are carried out in a voluntary organisation. In the light of the definition of the official, it should be borne in mind that they do not exercise or safeguard the authority of the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U219	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Eiki Nestori, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U220	Mr President, I would also like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U221	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U222	Is that all you got?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U223	I would certainly like to give you more time, but there will be restrictions under the Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U224	That's too bad! Ladies and gentlemen, I will try, although the Rules of Procedure do not require it, to speak in order, not in order of importance. First of all, I would like to thank the Commission for taking account of the amendments. Apart from the clarifications and improvements that make the text of the law better, we are particularly grateful for two things. Firstly, this distribution of basic and additional salaries, 80% and 20%. When calculating the additional salary, the work that public service officials are going to do in the future will now be excluded, it will be overtime, or it will not be taken in, and it will not be subject to these restrictions. Secondly, we are grateful even for the fact that the law has disappeared from one place where a comic situation could have arisen: if the head of department of a state institution marries his subordinate and fails to invite the head of the institution to the wedding, both of them would have had to pay six months' wages to the state because they did not report that there had been a change in their family life. That stupidity is no longer in the law. Thank you to the Commission, and thank you also to the Minister, who quickly understood it. Of course, I am now trying to urge you to vote in favour of those amendments which, unfortunately, have not been understood. The changes were very difficult to make, because the most complex part of the law is the one who is an official and who is not, who exercises public authority and who does not. If, in public authorities, you don't know, this distinction may even be dealt with, then in municipalities, especially in smaller ones, where a person is doing so now, no one knows who he is according to the logic of this law. The next completely wrong approach concerns the conclusion of an employment contract with people who are no longer officials and who will be subject to the Employment Contracts Act. Our firm proposal is to delete a provision allowing the government to lay down any other conditions in the employment contracts that will be concluded with these people. There's the Employment Contracts Act, parties have rights and obligations, they live by this law. I don't think the government can or can make any more decisions here. In my opinion, the most foolish point relates to the reduction of wages under § 61. The salary shall be reduced if the budget of the institution is reduced, increased or, rather, sought out, if they are found or not found if the payroll is increased. That's one side of it. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these people are predominantly without contract law, without agreement. The Employment Contract Act also provides, for example, for a situation where wages may be reduced if the company fails. It's all temporary, but you can't take it any different. The draft Civil Service Act, according to which officials are essentially not entitled to trade anything, makes it permanent. The obligation to find perhaps means the obligation to search, to search for years, but nothing will be found, and that is it. The payroll may also increase, but still no chance will be found. It has, in principle, cut off a very large right from civil servants, who should be given greater guarantees by law than workers on employment contracts. The strike. Our proposal is simple: we leave the strike paragrape as a section of the collective labour dispute resolution law just as we have also proposed a solution for how it could be described there and not discussed in the Public Service Act. And what is most ugly, even this concept, which is somewhat better than the current situation in which strike is prohibited or permitted by institutions, changes. Maybe the officials can't, but the contractors can strike, but the Rescue Board is somehow the kind of place where this old principle remains valid. We are violating international labour law, we are violating simple principles, or we are creating a situation where, apparently, because of the desire to cut off guarantees or other things, such as cheapness, people are being forced into employment contracts, but no right to strike is granted. I repeat, do not be alarmed that rescuers have the right to strike. That doesn't mean that when the house burns, they don't erase it. These are different principles of the right to strike; the safety of a person in areas that are detrimental to health is regulated in its own right. The current collective agreement law also gives the right to impose certain requirements that strikers must take into account. You don't wanna wring your finger around here, make sure you have the right to strike, and I can do free courses for all of the Rescue Board's leaders, current, next, and former. Retirement. There has been much talk here about legitimate expectations, and very rightly so. Why am I talking about this? You see, the main concern of civil servants in this law is about both leave and pension. Our Supreme Court has indeed made decisions on legitimate expectations. He has said that, in the case of legitimate expectations, three aspects must be taken into account: the changes must be sufficiently justified; people must be aware of them early enough to be able to change their behaviour; and thirdly, it must be weighed down whether this disappearing benefit, the 'lost' benefit, cannot be replaced by anything or organised differently. As far as those people whose leave is 35 days are concerned, i.e. the law is shorter than the law, by the way, does not prohibit the directors of the administration from compensating them for long periods, for example, with an extra fee, and who therefore go to court, I think that they are very likely not to win. It's a vacation, it's one annual size, it's five weeks or longer. It is quite another matter to have a fundamental right called pension. Here is the solution, that only the next five years can still be spent on retirement benefits, clearly against legitimate expectations. If the current minimum is 10 years, imagine a person who has four years of experience. He's gone into public service, knowing he can collect these years of work. What, though, is the ugliest thing: how can the law come into force on one day, but the redundancy benefits, take them away immediately? It's a fight, guys! This is not legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U225	Thank you. Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am quite sure that many of us have a family member, acquaintance or friend who works as an official, either in a state institution or in a local government. A large number of such people working for the country are about to undergo changes. The same bill that we are dealing with sets out who will be future officials who will not, and will regulate the working conditions, responsibilities and rights of civil servants. The current Civil Service Act, which governs the service relations of officials, entered into force in 1996, i.e. already 16 years ago. During this period, Estonian society has developed a lot and made significant changes, and probably that is why both the coalition of the Riigikogu and the opposition together find that the organisation of the public service needs to be changed. How it is necessary to change, there are slightly different views, but the principle of the need for a new civil service law is shared by all parliamentary parties. By adopting ATS in the mid-nineties, the focus was on providing sufficient favourable working conditions to compete with the private sector in the public sector. The task of the Republic of Estonia at the time was to raise a loyal and competent official body. The need to amend the law has been known and dealt with on several occasions, but all the attempts to date have been grounded. This time, however, the draft on the working tables of the members of the Riigikogu has been much better worked out than before, and there has also been a great deal of cooperation between the coalition, opposition and professional associations and interest groups. However, there are still some questions in the draft, and I hope that the Ministry, together with the Commission, will make some clarifications between the second and third readings. The main problem is that the official's concept is not clearly, unambiguously spelled out. It is unclear who will be governed by the law, who will remain an official and who will work on the basis of a contract of employment in the future. At this point, I would like to support the Tallinn City Secretary's proposal that, at least for local governments, precise positions that will be employed by officials need to be rewritten, at least at the level of the explanatory memorandum if they do not want to write it into the law. In the future, the head of the institution will also have too much authority over who he calls or who he formalises in a contract of employment. We can write a lot of benefits into the law or leave them out of it or cut them as much, but it won't work if we don't know who the law will apply to, or who will be officials in the future. First of all, it should be argued and the creators and implementers of the law should understand it in the same way. According to the Centre Party, cities and municipalities should also be compensated for the costs of implementing the Act. It must not be the case that the coalition adopts the law and that the local government should find the costs from its own resources, which have already been cut. The coalition's arguments were also raised in relation to redundancy benefits. We proposed to increase the redundancy allowance from one month's salary to three months' salary and, in the case of chancellors and county elders, to reduce it from six months' salary to one month's salary. It should not be the case that a simple and good public official receives redundancy compensation for one month, but high state officials for six months. Our proposal was to equalise redundancy payments to three months. When discussing one issue or another, the initiator of the Act has replied that the new ATS will be synchronised with the recently adopted Employment Contracts Act. This statement, in itself, is a cause for concern in us. In view of the nature of the Employment Contracts Act, where the employee has significantly fewer rights, the new law on the organisation of work cannot be allowed to deviate from it. I am pleased that the ATS bill on the tables is even a little more friendly to the worker than the Employment Contracts Act. Whether it's a longer vacation or a lay-off protection for a pregnant and a baby-rearing officer. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U227	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U228	A rather heated debate was raised by the question of the right to strike, which was understood both by the Commission rapporteur and by Eiki Nestor. The Central Party Group considers that the ban on the strike of officials is justified. Although the right to strike is an important human right, it can be limited on a certain basis and undoubtedly based on public order and public security. The public service is also aimed at ensuring public order and public service. According to the current ATS, officials are also banned from strike. The draft in progress will increase the number of strike laws, as the number of officials who remain subject to the ban will decrease. The draft wage bill should be commended, which will become much clearer and more public. Officials with young children and young children will also be protected and European and employee-enhancing rotation opportunities will be offered. During constructive cooperation within and outside the committee, a number of amendments from the Central Party Group were incorporated into the draft. In many respects, they concern the definition of local authorities and mayor and mayor in the draft. More specifically, on the proposal of the Centre Party Group, the right of officials to strike and pressurize was also disbanded. In addition, we proposed delaying the entry into force of the law, and this proposal also brought along the coalition and the rest of the committee. In 2009 the examination of the ATS draft did not go very smoothly in the composition of the XI Riigikogu. Professor Tiina Randma-Liiv of the Technical University gave a particularly strong opinion in his expert opinion, where he stressed that the new ATS would weaken the competitiveness of the Estonian public service in the labour market, as several benefits and social guarantees would be lost. At the time, the debate was still ongoing and the law was not passed. It seems to me that the draft currently under way has greater potential to become a law. I would also like to say that the process of the ATS draft procedure made a very good impression on me as a young member of the Riigikogu, because the debate at committee meetings, which lasted for several hours, was really substantive, inclusive and inclusive. For this, thank you very much to the Commission's leader and the initiator of the law. But next to that, there are a number of questions that we drew attention to, and which I pointed out both in the good side and in the face of reprehensibility. One question, to which Eiki Nestor referred, is the unilateral reduction in wages. Originally, it was pretty laconically worded. Through the amendments made by both the Group of the Social Democratic Party and our Group, it was unwritten, but we continue to believe that if an official is to be reduced in wages, whatever the circumstances, the workload must be reduced or the working time reduced. Just to say that the state is doing badly, the ministry's budget or the local government's budget has been reduced, and by this percentage we will also reduce the official's salary, it is certainly not fair to the official. I think that, too, is an issue that the Centre Party Group wants to discuss with the parties to the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U229	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Civil Service Act has been being reformed for 12 years. In 2001 Märt Rask, Minister of Justice, started with this. The draft law was then sent to the Riigikogu, but then it disappeared without a trace. In 2004, the Minister of Justice, Ken-Marti Vaher, tried to do the same, completed the draft law and introduced it to journalists, after which no further discussions were made and the bill disappeared. In 2008, Rein Lang took the initiative. In the meantime, by the way, the anti-work contract law had also been passed and it was very difficult to explain ATS in this context. Conflicts evidently arose in his home party, and the bill was too radical. Now there will be a new stage and new people in Parliament, as if not too many problems have arisen, and probably the draft will be passed as a law. Unlike many, I personally am not so blue-eyed about this bill. In 1996, when the Civil Service Act was made, it was understood that officials were those exercising our constitutional rights, and public service needed the best people with knowledge, competence and skills, education and loyalty to the state. This was necessary because they are the ones who have much more impact on our lives than maybe companies or whoever. There were also some social guarantees that we today call benefits. I will give you a few examples: in addition to longer leave, additional leave due to seniority, a leave allowance of up to one month's salary, higher redundancy benefits and a slightly higher pension. So at that time, these people were valued. At the same time, they were deprived of the right to strike, and this total withdrawal of the right to strike is not the right thing to do. What is it now? The state no longer, it seems to me, these people are not so important, because the social guarantees that provide security for officials will disappear, while the strike limit will continue to apply to all servants. The state takes only its own interests into account and deliberately tries to give the impression that state officials are like some highly paid privileged society living at the expense of others. I think that's a total lie. In this hall, we have many local government characters, parish leaders, county elders, you know what the situation really is. The year-on-year austerity policy has strangled the parishes half-dead, and the wages of the employees who were humiliated are at a time of depression. Officials will still have to be on unpaid leave for some time even in the vast majority of municipalities and officials will still be laid off. These people are currently underpaid and under-rated. If we now lose these few social guarantees, while leaving a full strike limit, I think it is another injustice against our people. We all remember well how the Employment Contracts Act incredibly curtailed workers' rights, and now more or less the same is done to civil servants. If officials are still banned from strike, this means that these people have a cut-off opportunity to stand up for their rights. The ILO also sees a problem with this total strike restriction. The strike limit could, in my view, remain only for people directly exercising state authority, and that is just an opportunity, not a ban. I don't understand what a threat is, let's say, in a good way, an office rat type official. Why does he not have the right to stand up for his salary and employment rights? Is there really any danger to our security? There is no point in stressing that the number of people with strike restrictions is falling be misleading information. After all, these people start working under a contract of employment, and their legal expectations are still the most deceived. Professor Raul Eamets of the University of Tartu and Professor Rainer Kattel of Tallinn University of Technology wrote in Postimees. They say: 'People working in the private sector often have an understanding that size is important and that the public sector is too big in Estonia, too many officials. It's too mechanical an approach. It is not only short-sighted but also disastrous to measure the state's performance with cost-effectiveness. ' And they continue: 'By fetishing lonely numbers, we quickly come to the point that statehood is relatively meaningless fun. The yardstick for the functioning of the public sector is, first of all, what our objectives are and whether the state is meeting them. In Finland, the share of the public sector is very large, but for some reason our people want to go to work there, not the other way around. ' However, it is totally unacceptable, as the previous speakers have said, that the law provides an opportunity to unilaterally reduce the employee's salary and that the former salary need not be restored even when the reasons for the reduction have disappeared. This provision was then made in the 21-year-old Republic of Estonia, incredible! This, in my opinion, is not a reorganisation of the public service, but is still a typical draft of cuts with which people's legal expectations have been trampled underfoot. This means that the terms of the contract have been unilaterally violated because the terms of the contract with which the person was recruited no longer exist. It is no wonder that a country in which labour force law is consistently passed under the leadership and approval of the Reform Party and the IRL is harassing people. People can no longer believe in their own country. During the Singing Revolution and the Baby Boom, people had hope and faith. After that, we have lost over a quarter of a million inhabitants, because of many of the laws that one of us has before us today. Today we are cutting down, reducing the number of officials and the costs associated with them. In the long term, however, the current higher costs could bring much higher revenues in the future. The previous speaker, the Commission rapporteur, said that only a few can serve the country. I think with this law, we're reducing the state itself. That's my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U231	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. And we will begin the examination of the 193 amendments to the draft. There's quite a few of them. The first amendment is from Mati Raidma; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is from the lead committee. The third amendment is from the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U232	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U233	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 19, 51 votes against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U234	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U235	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? I shall put to the vote Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 18 votes to 49, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U236	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U237	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? I shall put to the vote Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 15 votes for, 50 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is to consider the substance. Amendment 11 is from the lead committee. Amendment 12 is from the lead committee. Amendment 13 is from the lead committee. Amendment 14 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U238	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U239	I shall put to the vote Amendment 107. Please take a stand and vote. Twenty-eight to 47. The amendment was not supported. Amendments 108.123 have all been tabled by the lead committee. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U240	Good President, how do you know I didn't want to vote on Amendment 120?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U241	I have never made it there, I am on Amendment 108. Amendments 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U242	Thank you. I do not want to vote on Amendment 120!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I thank you for this courtesy, but you do not have to say unless you wish to vote on the amendment. If you want to vote, say so. Let's keep going. Amendments 121, 122, 123 and 124 have been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U244	Thank you. That is the amendment I would certainly like to vote on, and I would also like to support.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U245	Thank you. We shall put to the vote Amendment 124 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 12, against 48. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 125 is from the lead committee. Amendment 126 is from the lead committee. Amendment 127 is from the lead committee. Amendment 128 is from the lead committee. Amendment 129 is from the lead committee. Amendment 130 is from the lead committee. The 131st amendment is from the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 132nd amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, taken into account in substance. Amendment 133 is from the lead committee. Amendment 134 is from the lead committee. Amendment 135 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, fully taken into account. Amendment 136 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, fully taken into account. The 137th amendment is from the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 138 is from the lead committee. The 139th amendment is from the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 140 is from the lead committee. Amendment 141 is from the lead committee. Amendment 142 is from the lead committee. Amendment 143 is from the lead committee. The 144th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U246	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put 78 amendments to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. For 12, against 48. The amendment was not supported. The 79th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Amendment 80 is from the lead committee. Amendment 81 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U247	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U248	I shall put to the vote Amendment 81 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 12, against 48, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 82nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance. Amendment 83 is from the lead committee. Amendment 84 is from the lead committee. 85th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. The 86th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U249	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U250	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 86. Please take a stand and vote. The result of the vote on the 86th amendment is as follows: 27 in favour, 48 against. The amendment was not supported. The 87th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 88th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U251	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U252	Thank you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 88 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. Twenty-six to 47. The amendment was not supported. 89th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take full account. The 90th has been presented by the lead committee. 91st has been presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U253	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U254	We have worked very well with you so far, and we will also try to carry out this vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 91. Please take a stand and vote. For 12, against 48. The amendment was not supported. The 92nd amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 93 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. 94th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Amendment 95 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. The 96th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 97 is from the lead committee. The 98th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U255	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U256	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the 98th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. by 13 votes to 48, with 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 99 is from the lead committee. Amendment 100 is from the lead committee. Amendment 101 is from the lead committee. 102. is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. 103. is from the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. 104th is from the lead committee. 105th is from the lead committee. 106. is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U257	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U258	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the 106th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 27, against 48. The amendment was not supported. The 107th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U259	The Social Democratic Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U260	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U261	Thank you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 144 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 12, against 48. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 145 is from the lead committee. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U262	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 147 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. For 27, against 48. The amendment was not supported. The 148th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take the substance into account. Amendment 149 is from the lead committee. Amendment 150 is from the lead committee. Amendment 151 is from the lead committee. Amendment 152 is from the lead committee. Amendment 153 is from the lead committee. Amendment 154 is from the lead committee. Amendment 155 is from the lead committee. Amendment 156 is from the lead committee. Amendments 157 to 177 have all been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 168, 169, 170, 171, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176, 177. Amendment 178 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. The 179th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 180th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Dear colleagues, thank you for your cooperation. We have examined the amendments. A statement has been received by the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, the text of which reads as follows: 'We propose to interrupt the second reading of the draft 193 SE. ' Signed on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party by Eiki Nestor. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I am voting on the motion of the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 193. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 12, against 48, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading is closed and the 14th item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U263	Thank you. Please vote on Amendment 145.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U264	Thanks, let's do it! I shall put to the vote Amendment 145 tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. For 50, against 12. The amendment was supported. 146th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U265	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U266	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 146 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 12 votes to 48, with 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. 147th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U267	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the 15th item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Securities Markets, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U268	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated s. a at the meeting on 30 April, the draft law amending the Securities Market Act, which is numbered 220. Between this first and second reading, a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs took place on 28 May. The draft specifies the procedures for drawing up and publishing the prospectus of securities and reduces the administrative burden on issuers and intermediaries when drawing up the prospectus. In addition, investor protection will be enhanced through a more precise definition of the information to be provided in prospectuses. No amendments to the draft were received and the following procedural decisions were adopted by the Commission. The first was to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda. a on 6 June. The second was the proposal to stop the second reading of the draft and the third was to put it on the plenary agenda for the third reading. a 7 June, when the second reading is decided to be closed on 6 June. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U269	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to the draft have been received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U270	The next item is the second reading of the draft law 228 amending the Law on liquid fuel, which was initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Monetary Commission, to present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U271	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Law on liquid fuel for the second reading at two sittings on 29 May for the first time and 4 June for the second time. No amendments were received for the second reading. The Committee on Monetary Affairs had also requested an opinion on the draft from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the opinions of these committees were also discussed at its meeting on 29 May. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and Lauri Lelumees, Chief Specialist of the same department, also took part in this discussion. In the meantime, the position of the Government of the Republic was also received, which was supportive of the draft. The Committee on Finance itself proposed one amendment for the second reading, the content of which is to provide unambiguously that the record of repeated infringements is to be kept together on the person and on the members of his management and control bodies, i.e. the guarantee can only be reduced by persons who themselves and whose management together has a sound background and for whom there are no possible circumstances relating to the risk of non-payment of taxes. The Finance Committee addressed its proposal for improvement at its meeting on 4 June, and Lauri Lelumees, the chief specialist of the Ministry of Finance, took part in this meeting. As a result of the discussions, the Committee on Monetary Affairs first proposed in its decision that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of 6 June, i.e. today. The second proposal was to conclude the second reading of the draft. Thirdly, if the second reading is completed, make the third reading tomorrow, 7 June. So much for information that all the Commission's proposals were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U272	Thank you. I would ask the rapporteur to clarify the technical amendment of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which was fully taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U273	Paragraph 42 (5) (2) is worded as follows:'(2) the person and the members of his management and control body together have not committed in the last three years a number of violations of tax laws, customs rules or of this law, and neither the person nor the member of his management or control body has been subject to criminal proceedings for breaches of tax laws, customs rules or this Act. '
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U274	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Of the amendments, this was then a technical proposal from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U275	The next item is the second reading of Bill 205 of Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Reet Roos.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U276	Dear waitress, Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed a draft amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act at its 205th session, which took place on 28 May 2012. There were no amendments to the draft, but the Commission made a technical amendment to the draft text. A linguistic correction has also been made. The Commission decided unanimously to send the draft to the plenary for a second reading today and proposed that the reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U277	Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Reet Roos! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to this draft were received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U278	The next item is the second reading of § 502 of the Act amending § 502 of the Health Services Management Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Reet Roos.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U279	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 29 May, the Social Affairs Committee also discussed the draft amendment to § 502 of the Health Services Organisation Act. No amendments were tabled, but the Commission again made technical and linguistic changes to the text. The committee decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today and decided to consensually propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading is completed, it is proposed that the draft be submitted to the third reading on 13 June and that the draft be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U280	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to this draft have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 198. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U281	The 19th item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Administrative Cooperation and the Law on Sport, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U282	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed this draft, a draft law amending the Law on Administrative Cooperation and a law amending the Law on Sport to prepare for the second reading at its meeting on 29 May. The first reading of the bill took place in our large hall on 16 May. The deadline for amendments was 25 May, as decided by the Commission. No amendments were received to us by that date and, consequently, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 29 May, the Committee on Culture decided to put the draft law amending the Law on Administrative Cooperation and the Law on Sport on the second reading in plenary by 6 June with a proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading of the draft is completed, the Commission's proposal for a third reading is on 13 June and for the draft to be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U283	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments to this draft have been received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading of bill 200 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U284	Today's 20th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask a colleague of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, Helmen Hunt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U285	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 224 before being submitted to second reading at its meeting on 29 May this year. Dagmar Rüütel, acting Head of the Medical Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Helen Tralla, acting Head of the Legal Area of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Riho Tapfer, Head of the Pharmaceutical Industry Association participated in the session. I would remind you that the purpose of this bill is to transpose the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into the legal area of Estonia and to strengthen the system of supervision of the safety of medicinal products for human use, to better protect public health, to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to simplify the current rules and procedures. After the first reading of the draft, the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees did not submit amendments and the Social Affairs Committee could not discuss them, but a letter was sent to the Commission by the NGO Pharmaceutical Industry Association, which proposed to amend the first sentence of § 85 (5) of the Pharmaceutical Act. This proposal concerns the packaging of samples of medicinal products. At the meeting of the Commission, Riho Tapfer presented the proposal of the Pharmaceutical Industry Association. The proposal concerns the central registration of medicinal products, the smaller and larger size of the packaging that is registered, and the most suitable size for the country is used in different countries. This means, however, that the current law allows for the use of the smallest packages registered in Europe, which can put Estonian producers before the fact that there is simply no such packaging in Estonia and this example cannot be used in Estonia. Since the use of samples is regulated by law and by the code of ethics of pharmaceuticals manufacturers, such a restriction may lead to a situation where samples are no longer available when prescription medicinal products are used. The purpose of the proposal is to introduce the term'smallest packaging available on the market' into the draft law under discussion. As a result, it is possible to obtain more samples of medicinal products, which may not otherwise reach the buyers because of the packaging. The Commission considered that this issue should be further addressed in the autumn. Dagmar Rüütel, Head of the Department of Medicine of the Ministry of Social Affairs, said that the minimum and maximum requirements for the sharing of samples provided for by the Directive were set and that the Directive allowed Member States to limit the requirements for the sharing of samples. Thus, the Ministry of Social Affairs does not object to this proposal and considers that it would be possible to return to its proceedings in the autumn. Finally. The Social Affairs Committee made the following procedural decisions: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading of today, 6 June, to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading of the draft is closed, to submit the draft to the third reading on 13 June with a proposal to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U286	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Helmen Hunter! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U287	Our last item today, item 21, is the second reading of draft Act amending the Emergency Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U288	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have a second reading of the draft law 204 initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is also known as the server law. The purpose of the draft is to ensure the continuity of important banking services in a situation where information systems located abroad do not function or communication with foreign countries is interrupted. For this purpose, larger banks operating in Estonia must keep their own backup servers in Estonia. The debate on the draft was held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 14 and 29 May. Visitors from Nordea Pank, the Estonian Banking Association and the Ministry of the Interior also participated in the first discussion, while visitors from Eesti Pank were at the second meeting. No amendments to the draft were received within the deadline, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself decided to table three amendments, which of course have been fully taken into account. The most important amendment concerned the implementation of the law, with the new deadline of 1 January 2014. The aim is to give banks more time to bring their activities into line with the requirements of the law. The consensus proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda on 6 June and to conclude the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-06-06_U289	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Andrei Korobeinik. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 3 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading. Second reading of bill 204 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, with this we have passed today's agenda. Thank you very much, everyone. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.27 p.m.
