ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. We will begin the Monday session of the 15th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U2	Dear Riigikogu! Due to the suspension of the mandate of Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Riigikogu, due to his appointment as Minister of Defence, Mart Nutt, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, is established. Let's hear the oath of Mart Nut, a member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U4	President of the Republic s. a By decision of 11 May No 84, Urmas Reinsalu has been appointed Minister for Defence. Let's hear the oath of Secretary of Defense, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U7	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law approving amendments to the Statute of the International Monetary Fund. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on ambient air protection, the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and the State Fees Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U8	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U9	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I am handing over the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, which provides for the reduction of electricity excise duties in Estonia from 1 January 2013 to the minimum allowed in the European Union, which is one euro. As you all know, the partial opening of the electricity market in Estonia has already shown that the prices in the Estonian price area of Nord Pool Spot Power Exchange are much higher than those currently charged to domestic customers. This price increase has not proved to be temporary but to be quite permanent. As a result, household customers can expect an increase in electricity prices of around 40% from 1 January next year. We are of the opinion that such an increase would be too high and would cause painful effects for the Estonian population. It is therefore the duty of the State to reduce the price increase. One way to do this is to reduce the excise duty added by the country. Our proposal is to reduce the excise duty, which is now nearly 4.5 times the minimum excise duty required in the European Union, to the minimum level of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U10	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws. If they comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. Now the messages. Firstly, the restoration of the mandate of Mart Laar, a member of the Riigikogu, ended in s. a On May 11, the mandate of Andrus Saare, a member of the Riigikogu. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 10 May Estonia's views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the access of third-country goods and services to the internal market for public procurement in the Union and on the procedures supporting negotiations on the access of Union goods and services to public procurement markets in third countries, to the Commission for European Union Affairs and to the Council of the Republic's Government's positions and to the regulation to give an opinion on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Economic Commission. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 1 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 7. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on all your tables. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 94 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U11	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. Answering questions begins. The first question to be heard is the members of the Riigikogu Priit Toobali, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev, Mailis Repsi, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo and Inara Luigas on 4 April. a request for information on the organisation of county state museums. I would like to ask my colleague Priit Toobali of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U12	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. On 4 April this year, I, together with my colleagues, presented an inquiry from the Central Party Group to Mr Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. The inquiry concerns the organisation of county state museums. In 2009 and 2010, the Ministry of Culture and the then Minister of Culture had the idea of merging Estonian county museums into one state institution. At the time, Minister of Culture Laine Jänes commented in the Riigikogu Question Hour that a department coordinating the content of museums would be set up to the Estonian National Museum instead of the so-called "United Museum." On 1 July 2010, a department of own cultures began to work at the ERM, which was supposed to direct the development and cooperation of the county museums. The Ministry of Culture is now taking the opposite direction: museums are being converted into foundations or handed over to local governments. Marju Reismaa, museum advisor to the Ministry of Culture, has noted that the management model of the county museums has been out of date and the form of the foundation allows for a two-tier governance model with a much simpler structure from the ministry's point of view and the allocation of specific powers and responsibilities. Tartumaa, Iisaku, Järvamaa and Läänemaa Museum and Mahtra Farm Museum have been ordered by the Ministry of Culture to make a complete inventory of collections in order to stop these museums from operating as state museums. The museum directors are of the opinion that the Ministry of Culture's understanding of the organisation of state museums is changing too quickly, no adequate analysis has been carried out and no museum managers have been involved. The museums have been instructed, despite the fact that there have been no substantive discussions with them and no arguments for or against those presented by the museum leaders at several meetings. On 4 April, we asked the Minister for Culture a total of six questions and now we ask the Minister to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U13	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Rein Lang, Minister of Culture of the Speaker's Board, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U14	Mr President, thank you very much. Good heirs! Information seems to be moving slowly or not moving at all in Estonia, but we are trying to correct this mistake a little bit. I'm trying to answer your questions. The first question: 'On the basis of what analyses has the decision been made to turn Estonian county museums into foundations or to give to local governments? " There is no such decision that all county museums in Estonia are turned into foundations or handed over to municipalities. All county museums in Estonia have their own peculiarities and all of them must be treated differently according to their specifics. There's no boarding, you can't do things the same way. Pursuant to § 78 of the State Assets Act, a foundation with state ownership can only be established on the basis of a mandate from the Government of the Republic. So once again, when you talk about the decision made, you get ahead of events. We are working on the preliminary work, we have described Estonia's museum network both in terms of activity and economics. We are negotiating with some local authorities (and, of course, with museums) where, in view of the interests of the local community, the most effective development of the museum could be done by the municipality or the municipality and the state in cooperation with a private person. The truth is that the Estonian museum landscape needs to be reorganized and updated. The 21st century museum is a living place where people are excited to be with the whole family, an educational place for both small and large people. Unfortunately, there are museums in Estonia that remain unattractive to people, because for how long do you visit different areas of the same animal cup? The consequence is that some museums are deserted, they are in budgetary difficulties, and they look ahead to the Ministry of Culture to find a mint somewhere. The aim of the Ministry of Culture is for all Estonian museums to be modern, educational, interesting and directed primarily to the people who visit them. The museum must be so interesting to our own people that people would go there more often than once in their lives. We have many such positive examples: the Estonian Art Museum, the Estonian History Museum reopened last summer, or the most recent example in the Baltic Sea region, the unique Estonian Maritime Museum's Seaplane Harbour. The second question: Has this issue been discussed with the museum directors, received their approval, and how many of them agree with this plan for the future? " Thank you very much for the good question! Changes related to the Museum of Tartumaa, Järvamaa, Läänemaa and Iisaku and Mahtra Farm Museum have been discussed with the managers of the museums concerned, local authorities and also with the museum council. We have received feedback from museums that they have the will to decide for themselves and plan their activities. The trend towards a foundation offers the museum much more self-determination than is currently the case; it offers greater independence, new opportunities for the institution to develop and become stronger in the museum landscape. The ideas of changes related to the county museums have been presented to all the directors of state museums operating in the counties twice: on 18 October and 13 December 2011 at a meeting with the museum advisor at the Estonian National Museum. Written memos have also been sent to them. The proposed amendments are also familiar with the museum council, which was discussed on 11 October 2011 and 26 January 2012. The Museum Council has no objection to changing the legal form of these five museums. Museums should not be afraid of a private legal form, as we are already setting an example of success stories from former state museums that have been transformed into foundations. In particular, the Virumaa Museums, which have been very successful in their activities, should be mentioned. Let us take examples from other areas as well. It is possible to exercise at the Christmas Mountain Sports Centre in the Foundation for many people who could not do sports there before. The Rakvere Theatre House, Ugala Theatre Foundation, as a recent example, is certainly the Endla Theatre Foundation, all of these examples have produced positive results in terms of the diversity, diversity and quality of the services offered, but there has also been an increase in own revenues in these institutions. The third question: 'Why is it not enough to organise the activities of the county state museums in the department of self-culture set up at ERM? ' The Estonian National Museum advises and cooperates with county museums. The department of self-cultures created for this purpose supports the development of county museums and coordinates their joint activities, such as organising training courses for county museums, helping them with marketing issues, helping to prepare projects, etc. However, the task of the Estonian National Museum is not to organise the activities of county museums or institutions on a daily basis. The Estonian National Museum's own culture department does not intervene or need to intervene in the day-to-day management of other state institutions. Question 4: "Does the Ministry of Culture's desire to change the status of county state museums mean that the Minister of Culture is not satisfied with the work of the Department of National Culture in directing cooperation between county museums? ' Here you can answer very simply: this statement is not true. The Ministry of Culture is satisfied with the work of ERM, but, as I said above, it has never been their job to organise the work of other public authorities, and it is not yet their job. Question 5: "What should you consider to be the status and management model of the county museums as Minister of Culture? ' Good question. County museums should be involved in educating people living in the neighbourhood and in their leisure activities and in enriching the living environment. The interests of local people should be at the forefront of the county museum. As a member of the community pays for the maintenance of the local museum, the interest of tourists should come after the interest of the local residents, but tourist money is certainly necessary and useful for managing the museum, which is why it cannot be overlooked. The current system of county museums is clearly out of date and the management model has slipped over time. The form of the foundation referred to by the heirs allows a two-tier governance model with a much simpler structure and a specific allocation of powers and responsibilities. While the members of the management bodies of private parties are not only morally responsible but also materially responsible for their decisions in the event of non-compliance with due diligence, the responsibility for current public authorities is clearly dissipated. Another important consideration for setting up a foundation is the possibility of involving the local authority in the activities of the cultural institution in whose territory the activities are carried out. In countries with developed cultural structures, the role of municipalities in managing cultural institutions and directing activities is much greater than is currently the case in Estonia. Local authorities should take part in the management of these institutions not only as references and advisors, but as real decision-makers, but also as those responsible. Only then can we hope that there will be an effective link between the local community and the cultural institution. Question 6: "How and by what time is the Ministry of Culture planning to carry out the reform of Estonian county museums? ' Here we should begin by saying that it is a clear exaggeration to call changes in the county museums a museum reform. This is the organisation of the museum network, during which the legal form of the five museums is changed. An example is a bit different, but nobody calls the Endla Theatre Foundation a theatre reform. As far as the timetable is concerned, if everything goes according to plan, we hope to conclude negotiations with the local authorities in the near future and the decisions of the councils to be reached by this autumn. The Ministry of Culture will then order the valuation of the museums' properties and complete the documents necessary for the foundation's establishment. The decision to wind up a state institution depends on the Government of the Republic order authorising the foundation to be established. The liquidation of a public institution cannot take place before the foundation is registered. After being authorised by the Government of the Republic, the founders are able to sign the Treaty and the Director can perform the registration activities of the Foundation. The Ministry of Culture prepares the documents on the basis that the establishment of foundations and the subsequent liquidation of state museums will take place during the first quarter of 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U15	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation on the 35th anniversary of the University of Tartu Museum of History last December, you stated that there are too many museums in Estonia. You have pointed out that a coordinated museum policy is being disrupted by the outdated museum law. When does the minister and government plan to come before us with a updated draft museum law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U17	Thank you, Honourable Fellow Priit Toobal. You can ask this question to the representatives of the Centre Party in the Committee on Culture. Already two weeks ago, the Ministry handed over to the Committee on Culture our understanding of how the museum law could be changed, as the Committee on Culture itself has wished to initiate this draft. This request was made at a meeting where all the members of the Committee on Culture were present. That decision was completely unanimous.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U18	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. It is a question of cooperation between municipalities and the state. What will be the contribution of the Ministry of Culture to the funding of the foundations being created and how will the sustainability of public funding be ensured?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U20	Thank you. In all cases, we have told the local authorities that the state will continue to finance these museums at least in the same amount as it is now. As far as sustainability is concerned, we have received questions everywhere, where there is a guarantee that the situation will be the same in ten years' time. But no minister can give a ten-year guarantee, because the state budget law that you have adopted in this Chamber does not allow it. I guess that's more of a gentleman's agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U21	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start the negotiations. Please, colleague of the speaker's desk, Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U22	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The first question was answered by the minister that no specific decision was made that Estonian county museums would become foundations or be handed over to municipalities. I will then ask why the Minister and the Ministry are acting if such a decision has not been taken. But that's it. It is clear that the models and methods of managing museums should be changed because the museum law and the organisation of museums, in particular the organisation of state museums, are in the way of time. However, at the moment, the plan, which envisages what to do with some museums, is confusing, and there are many unanswered questions. The conditions for regulating relations between municipalities and foundations must certainly be clarified. Local governments also need to have confidence that taking over the museum will be accompanied by state funding, not just as always, that the state will give the municipalities an object or a task, maybe it will also provide good funding for a year, but next year it will no longer be remembered and the funding will be cut off. In fact, it is up to the local government to maintain the object, and it is good for the state to say that he has wiped his hands of it. We certainly do not object to a change in the organisation of museums, but it must be preceded by in-depth analyses, which should involve both museum managers and local government leaders more than before, because several state museum leaders in counties have expressed dissatisfaction with the media that they are little involved and that the Ministry has not taken their views into account. If we involve local government leaders and museum leaders, we will be able to answer the questions and reach a compromise that is satisfactory to all parties involved. But I am pleased that amendments to the museum law are about to arrive in Parliament's plenary. We hope that, in the course of the procedure for this draft, we will have answers to the questions and that we will be able to address this issue in greater depth than in the context of the consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U23	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U24	We will go to the next question, namely the members of the Riigikogu Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Mailis Repsi, Priit Toobali, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toomi on 5 April in the s. a request for information on the State Exam of the Native Language. Once again, I would like to ask my colleague Priit Toobali of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U25	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister for Education and Science, On 5 April, the members of the Centre Party Group handed over an inquiry to Jaak Aavikkogu. The subject of inquiry is the State Exam of the Native Language. On April 30, seniors wrote the state examination of Estonian language, which has been composed of two parts since that year. It controls the student's text-writing and text-writing skills, i.e. functional reading and writing skills. A new state examination of Estonian language is necessary, as more and more of the ideas and texts that have been learned have started to be presented instead of direct creations, and the other parts of the syllabus may be neglected enough in the study work. However, the introduction of a new format for the state examination of Estonian language by spring 2012 has made both teachers and students concerned, both before and after the exam, because there are still many unanswered questions. The introduction of a new format for a year before the State Exam was considered by teachers to be too hasty. There was also a lack of broad-based training and relevant educational materials. As a result, teachers do not feel confident, and many schools gave up taking the test this year because it was not easily prepared and analysed in sufficient detail. It's likely to cause problems later. Hugo Treffner Gymnasium and Tallinn Real School seniors prepared a public visit in the autumn, drawing attention to the bottlenecks of the new exam format. Students maintained that if only one assessor controls the reading part, it increases the number of complaints. Since we submitted an inquiry on 5 April and, in the meantime, this examination has already taken place, the Minister will probably have additional information on this examination in addition to the six issues we asked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U26	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Please speak with the esteemed Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U27	President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioner and other ambassadors! The literature is a form of native language control with deep traditions and roots in Estonia. Of course, changing such a tradition, no matter how justified and well prepared it is, always creates uncertainty and questions. Neither is the exception to the new organisation of the state examination of Estonian language, which, true, has not lost the essay as a written form of self-expression in the mother tongue, but has reduced its proportion by introducing new questions or questions, particularly as regards the understanding and analysis of the text. Discussions on the new examination form started as early as 2004. In March 2005, more than 500 documents prepared in cooperation with teachers were presented to the Minister of Education and Research, entitled 'Teachers' proposals to improve the effectiveness of Estonian language learning'. A few years went by and on 20 February 2008, Minister Lukas set up a working group on developing the state examination of Estonian language, where the Estonian educational public and teachers, including the Estonian Society of Language Teachers, were quite broadly represented. By decree No 406 of 4 April, Piret Järvela was appointed as the representative of the Estonian Association of Language Teachers. Thus, the association of mother tongue teachers, who have spoken quite loudly on this issue, has been involved in this work through their representative. The cooperation that took place. A State examination took place on 30 April, was quite well and comprehensively and long-term, prepared during several ministers and several governments. As has been said, there have been many oppositions and differences of opinion. It is also lamented that there was little time to prepare. But I want to highlight one of the more general problems that we face in Estonian educational life over and over and over and over again, and which, in my opinion, have also prompted you, the good ambassadors, to present this question. What exactly do we want in school, why should children study there? Should they study for a specific format, shape and content examination or, nevertheless, for the purpose of understanding the subject provided for in the national curriculum? I believe that a new or any form of examination cannot and must not expect any other knowledge and skills than those that must be taught and acquired according to the current national curriculum, even in the case of a mother tongue. Therefore, the examination form should not in itself be a problem only one year before the examination takes place, as it does not render nullifying the work done over the 12 years that seniors have left behind. But now more specific answers. The first question: 'Despite the resistance of mother tongue teachers to the Native Language Exam, what analyses were used to change the format of the Native Language Exam and to abandon the traditional essay? " I stopped for a while. To the most important extent, problems with native language skills may be reflected in a study carried out some time ago among the 242 primary students of six higher education institutions who had recently graduated from upper secondary school. The study objectives of the Estonian language syllabus were achieved by only 52% of the participants in the study, with 23% of the participants in the test score and 25% of the missing results. 'Therefore, about 40% of students' literacy skills are so low that it will certainly affect a person's credibility if he or she wants to raise social capital in social activities. " This is the conclusion reached by Martin Ehala and his team in the study summary. I believe that extending the mother tongue examination and introducing a verification of functional native language skills will seek to remove this bottleneck. The second question: 'Looking at the wave of criticism following the test and the view of the Estonian Mother Language Teachers' Association that the essay is a greater challenge for students than the new exam, are you considering coming back to the traditional essay? ' The State Exam is not organised to present the greatest possible challenge. The State Exam is organised in order to understand and adequately assess whether the objectives have been or have not been met. As has already been said, the essay is not lost. Its volume has decreased from 600 to 400 words. I believe that also those Estonian language teachers whose opinions do not match the positions of the management board of the Estonian Association of Teachers of Languages have an idea and authority to make decisions. Based on the experience of the two official test examinations and the analysis of the results of the state examination that has taken place today, we will certainly arrive at a more competent response, but the preliminary analysis shows that the return to traditional literature is not seriously on the agenda, although there is no reason to exclude it. The third question: 'When it was said in the autumn that the teachers of their school would improve the work first and then the representatives of the REKK, it became clear from January that the teachers could not read the work of their pupils. What caused this change a few months before the exam took place? ' The proposal to include their school teachers in the evaluation process of the state examination of Estonian language was made to the Minister for Education and Research by the above-mentioned working group on 15 May 2008. The REKK also started preparatory work. On 24 November 2011, the Estonian School Leaders' Association submitted a referral to the Ministry of Education and Research, in which it asked not to change the procedure for the assessment of the Estonian language examination. Doubts about teachers' ability to evaluate the state exam work were also included in the students' public address (Teachers' Leht, 11 November 2011). The Ministry of Education and Research decided to meet the wishes of the school leaders and until 2014 not to change the current procedure for assessing exams. Question 4: 'By the new procedure, Part I is counted by one of the evaluators and Part II points are based on the average of the two evaluators. As your Minister for Education and Research, do you not see the risk here that using one valuer in Part I will increase the number of complaints and disputes? ' Reading assignments are classic open answers tasks, which are also assessed by one assessor on the basis of the evaluation key for other state examinations. An appeal to the examination results is the right of the examiner, which gives the opportunity to gain confidence in the accuracy of the assessment of his exam work. When appealing, students need to consider their decision thoroughly, as this may result in an error of assessment which, on the contrary, lowers the result of the exam. We are prepared for a slight increase in the number of appeals taking into account the first pass of the exam. Up to now, an appeal has been made on the national examination of the Estonian language per 2-5% of the examination work. Question 5: 'The distinguishing letter of the state examination of Estonian language states that from 2014 the duration of the examination will be 300 minutes. Many students, however, have complained about the scarcity of time. Does the Ministry of Education and Research have data on how many students would have needed extra time on the test exams? What is the reason for the need to shorten the length of the exam? ' The question is not about this year's exam, but about two years from now. Based on the results of the two test examinations, students need an average of 4.5 hours to pass the test. If the regular exam shows that students do not need six hours to pass the exam, then a reduction in the examination period in 2014 will be considered. However, if students need more time, the current regime will remain in place. Question 6: 'Abiturants highlighted the incompetences of the key evaluation in their public address. How do you guarantee that such errors will not be included in the assessment key when assessing the state examination work? ' The tests, which took place in 2010 and 2011, were designed to detect possible errors in the examination work and to ensure the quality of the examination work. Only one key to the assessment of the test examination was highlighted in the student's address, which however did not affect the grade. The tasks which had become operational on 30 April had undergone multiple expert assessments and their authors had carried out a much more in-depth analysis than the test examinations. In addition, the examination committee is based on the principle that any dispute in the interpretation of the answers is resolved in favour of the examiners. I am convinced that despite the changed test form, the state examination of Estonian was successful on 30 April 2012 and that both students and teachers understand the need for change. For my part, I can add that this exam is perfectly fit for ordinary people as well. It took me about 4.5 hours to take that exam, too. The tired hand and holding the pen for 4.5 hours was the greatest effort in addition to the spiritual effort that accompanied the exam. I have to admit that I had the impression that such a slightly more finite, more specific examination and examination of different competences could produce good results in the Estonian state as a whole. I don't know what to say about the personal results yet. I'm waiting for them to shake. But I will finish with the words of one of the assistant students at the Saaremaa Common Gymnasium who, after passing the exam, thought that the new exam would broaden the possibilities compared to the essay because it is not just about creating text. Final essay is a matter that only needs once in life, but it requires understanding and analysis of the text all the time. Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U28	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U29	Thank you! Mr. Minister! It seemed to me that there was a contradiction in your first response. The question was, on the basis of which analyses the decision was taken. You spoke about Martin Ehala's analysis and curriculum, and the impression that changing the test form is what directs the whole course of teaching. We are not talking about the curriculum, but we are talking about the fact that if we change the content of the exam, it is as if, in some mysterious way, we are also eliminating the shortcomings that Ehala has pointed out. I didn't really understand how this would happen if the curriculum remained the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U30	I will start by saying that the curriculum is, true, changed from time to time, but not in terms of native language skills to the extent that it has introduced any fundamental differences. Now for the state exam. Unfortunately, as I have already suggested, we have such a school culture, for various reasons, that the exam is a very strong motivator on which much depends. Probably a little less will depend on the future, because universities will pass the entrance exams. I may have some doubts about their worth, but if the universities have decided so, it is their right. The situation had developed that native language education was increasingly and more concentrated in the form of literature around the development of self-expression. But language and language are more complex phenomena. Therefore, the control of different skills could be, say, richer. Checking whether a person understands what he reads is reasonable. It is also reasonable for him to be able to analyze the text, to understand it more deeply. If he writes a longer essay on the basis of what he has read and his knowledge and skills, then such a comprehensive, multi-component examination is, in my opinion, practical and really more broadly controlling the acquisition of a national curriculum. As far as all these work, analyses and studies are concerned, I cannot read them here. Of course, the Ehala survey was carried out much later than the 2004 debate on the new examination form. If you wish, I can read all these letters and committees from here, but believe me, there have been quite a few of them, and the competent native-language specialists have expressed their opinion. I believe that we will look constructively to the future and await the results of this year's state examination. I dare be cautiously positive that, in general, this form of examination justified itself, it justified itself this time and it will also justify itself in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U31	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We all read about it through the media, and today you also said here that you too did this new exam. If the student passes the exam and receives few points, then he will probably not be able to enter the desired university in the desired field of study and in the future will probably not get the desired job. What follows or happens when your ministry employees get or you get too few points or you get less than average results?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U33	I believe that there is a strong public interest in these points. It's not like we've figured out how to disclose all this. However, I believe that those ministerial staff who took this exam with me have been sufficiently prepared, both on the basis of their own studies and life experience, to complete this exam at least 20 points. I didn't feel the fear of failure in that hall. But if such an accident should happen, you must see what you can do next, whether you leave the person in detention, make the class repeat, or do something else. We'll figure it out. I encourage all adults from time to time not only to take a mother tongue exam but also to try their teeth on another state exam. Perhaps then we will also be able to feel what is left of our knowledge at the end of school and how useful this knowledge has been in our lives. So I'm not too scared myself, and I'll let you know how I did.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U34	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U35	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I'm really glad you passed that exam yourself. But the answers you read to us on paper. I would have liked to have heard your intuitive views. But what do you think of the views of very successful students? You didn't feel scared, but they, the best, felt scared and said after that there was little time and it was very difficult to re-align on different subjects during the exam. Maybe we shouldn't take the shock test.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U36	No, the shock test didn't take place this time either. If you're asking for my personal understanding, I think you can ask for anything. By my understanding, a good teaching arrangement (from university I have some experience of it) could be without any test tickets. More or less you know what you need to learn when it comes to optics or physics. The textbooks are there, and more or less it says what that knowledge should be about. But if, before the exams, they try to drive these tickets to their heads and analyze that if the question is such how exactly the answer must be, I don't think it's the right approach at all. Rather, questions could be as open as possible. I myself have been playing with the idea that why can't the exams have the same opportunities as in normal life that all the Internet and all the tools you can bring with you to the exam room with your backpack are available, just a cup in place and put on the table in a pile. But the lack of knowledge also comes out when you look at such aids in the eye once and ask how it is or what it is. In my experience, I can tell you that these tools and examination tickets do not help very much. So I encourage you to go towards less formalised and more public knowledge control. Then the fear of having learned the exact thing disappears. Even in real life, we do not have any test tickets, but we have problems that we need to be able to solve. I think that if we can move in this direction with national control, we have also done the students a great service so that they can prepare better for life and real problems than when they learn from the so-called "a" to the "o" and not even a syllable anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U37	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague, Priit Toobal, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U38	Dear Chairman, Good Minister, thank you very much for your answers and for your debate. The first state examination of Estonian language other than the classic graduation is now written and students can only expect results intensively. However, if you recall the development of the new exam format up to this year's state exam, there are still a number of questions and problems. There's something in this hall that's already come up. In our opinion, the reform of the state examination of Estonian language is characterised by excessive haste. Introducing a new format for a year before passing the exam left too little time for both students and teachers to prepare themselves. The Minister, in answering his questions, said that the Minister and the Ministry had been preparing this new format for a long time, but unfortunately this preparation did not reach students and teachers through the teaching materials and trainings that we considered to be a problem with this rush. Of course, the students and teachers who pass the new exam next year will be in a slightly better position. Perhaps it would have been fair if the new exam format had been applied to those students who already knew that they had to pass a new English language exam when they graduated from upper secondary school. Native-language teachers have also drawn attention to the lack of teaching material. As a result, the burden on mother tongue teachers increased considerably, as the materials needed to prepare students often had to be produced on their own. This certainly required additional work in addition to preparing daily hours and working in classes. The extensive training that should have supported teachers in pre-trial preparation took place too late and was not as thorough as expected. This has been said by teachers both at meetings and in the media. Insufficient analysis of the two test tests was a concern. Since the exam format is new for both students and teachers, some schools did not pass the test this year. They explained this precisely by not being able to prepare the test, later to check or to analyse it. However, we all remember that when the test is preceded by a test, it is much bolder and more secure to go to the exam. When analysing the new national exam for students, several seniors have drawn attention to the errors in the test examination assessment key. Although the final evaluation key should be developed during the evaluation process, in the case of a flawed key, there is still a possibility that students who correctly understand the text will also receive fewer points. If the reading part is controlled by only one assessor, it can increase the number of complaints and create the possibility that the same work that different people value will receive a different number of points. I will introduce a few words to a fresh study carried out by the Estonian Student Association on 4 May. This study deals with feedback from native language examiners. I'm talking about what the students missed and why they're worried about the new exam arrangement. 60% of respondents admitted that they were not prepared enough. Many added that it was unacceptable for them to know that it was only at the end of last year that a new examination would be taken. Very many seniors acknowledged that this was a matter of hasty changes. 76% of respondents were of the opinion that there were insufficient issues. The vast majority of the reasons for this were that the topics were very one-sided and too general. The preordained guidelines put the writer within the framework and did not give the writer the opportunity to develop his own thinking. A number of respondents suggested that essays should be just as they used to be in the form of a subject and that opening the subject and choosing the angle of approach would remain a senior. It was suggested that the reading part needed enough text, but the selection of topics for writing was disappointing. It should be noted that if a new exam was to be fought against memorising, this time the method was encouraged. There were also those who observed that they wrote exactly what they had written all along because the topics were exactly the same. May I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U39	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U40	It was also pointed out that it is difficult to perform two types of tasks in a row without an intermediate pause. Tasks require a wide range of skills: one task is more creative; the other one is focused on text processing. The study proposes to change the exam to two days, so that the reading part is on one day and the writing part is on the other day. The same system is in place in Finland. So a positive example would be very close to taking. In favour of this proposal, 62% of the respondents also said that time had been given quite precisely, but they added to the recitals that it was still very time-consuming work and that it was too much to do for six hours. Thus, there are still some ambiguities and unanswered questions in the reform of the Native Language State Exam. Such a change in the examination format has a seal on the method of haste and trial and error, but unfortunately, as a result of such testing, the further education and working life of young people may be frustrated. We do not want to challenge the new exam format and procedures, but we consider it a sin that it was implemented too quickly. It would have been fair for young people to know under what conditions they would be graduating from upper secondary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U41	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U42	We will continue with the third question, namely the members of the Riigikogu Enn Eesmaa, Ester Tuiksoo, Jüri Ratas, Lauri Laas, Mailis Repsi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Olga Sõtnik, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vasiliyev, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toomi on 30 April. a request for information on the increase in the pay of teachers. Mr Tarmo Tamme, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U43	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. On 30 April we submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. An inquiry concerns an increase in teachers' salaries. Paragraph 37 (2) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, adopted in 2010, states that students are guaranteed at least the services of special education, psychologists and social pedagogues. In order to implement the service of support specialists, the school manager creates opportunities and is organised by the Director. The Final Protocol on the State Budget 2012 of the Delegation of the Government Commission and the Municipalities Cooperation Council confirms that the parties agreed to continue financing support specialists on the basis of the principles of 2011. By 2011, it was agreed that local budgets would include support for the training costs of the Equalisation Fund for the amount of pedagogues in order to enable schools to better comply with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Law and with the tasks arising from the national curriculum, including the availability of support services. According to Tartu Postimees, after the teachers' strike, you sent a proposal to the Ministry of Finance for coordination, according to which the money given from the state on 1 September for the remuneration of teachers should only go to teachers' salaries. However, this step of the Ministry of Education and Research means abolishing the previous agreement, which is why, in the middle of the financial year, municipalities need to find money to pay the salaries of school support specialists. This means that municipalities will face an additional burden which was not taken into account in the budgeting process. Mr. Minister! We have five questions for you. Maybe in terms of saving time, you read them yourself and then answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U44	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister for Education and Science, I would like to ask you once again to answer the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U45	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The question is about teachers' salaries. I believe that all Estonian education ministers and governments, as well as the compositions of the Riigikogu, have been sincere in their desire to guarantee teachers a decent salary. Regardless of whether there is currently opposition or coalition, the parties have made efforts to do so, as far as the financial resources of the state budget and the political will have enabled it. We know that teachers' pay is not such that teachers are satisfied with it, it is not that I am satisfied with it, and it is not supposed to be that you are satisfied with it. It is probably right to argue that there is also a consensus in society at large that teachers should be paid more. For me, there are two questions. Why is the situation the way it is? Why are we in a situation where we have just as much wanted one, but the result does not satisfy any of the parties? A simplified answer, which often comes from those who are not currently among the decision-makers that the decision-makers are guilty, is obviously not credible. That is why I have had the task of figuring out why the money that is being channelled into the education system does not reach the teachers in the form of their pay and of trying to figure out where it will disappear if it does not reach the teachers. It hasn't been easy. It has been extremely difficult to get this data from school keepers. For various reasons, efforts have been made to avoid or circumvent the provision of these data. However, I do know from these data, which, indirectly, has reached the Ministry, that teachers' salaries in Estonia account for less than 40% of the general education costs. Less than 40%! More than 60% is spent on other things, from heating and building school buildings to the remuneration of other employees. In Finland, the pay rate for teachers is 52%, with an average of 63% in OECD countries. Even catching up with Finland would allow us to raise wages by 30%. So paying attention to the increase in teachers' pay, the use of money in the general education system, including its legality, is well-founded and necessary. Moreover, I would argue that without such an analysis and without proposals based on it and, if necessary, without reforms and legislative changes, teachers' wages will not rise to the level we would like to have in the long term. Carrying water with sieves is not a sensible activity. Unfortunately, this introduction also concerns the resources for teachers' salaries from the state budget to local authorities within the support fund. I'm gonna stop by answering the questions. The first question: 'Why does the Government of the Republic not want to keep its promises to the local governments? Does it not seem to you that the unilateral withdrawal of the agreement between the Government Commission and the Municipalities Cooperation Council is irresponsible? 'No one has unilaterally canceled anything. The Ministry of Education and Research has indicated in its letter that, on the basis of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, also in the case referred to by the person asking, it is the responsibility of the school manager to provide support specialists and organise their work. This obligation is not imposed on the State by the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. It is true that previous regulations leave local authorities the possibility to use part of the support fund for the purposes mentioned above. Now there is a fundamental place for decision-making. Is it really justified to cover the costs of other school staff from the state budget in the event that the law does not provide for such an obligation in a situation where the State is unable to fulfil its obligations to pay the salaries of teachers? The current practice is a serious argument, as well as an ongoing financial year. For this reason, the compromise was found that in 2012 we will not unilaterally change our current practice with force. However, I very much hope that in both the government and the Riigikogu we will be able to find clarity and abide by the responsibilities of local governments, other school managers and the state to the end, because such clarity is both practical and necessary in order to finally solve the problem of teachers' pay. Therefore, there is a compromise in 2012. The financial year is running. Putting a burden or unreasonable burden on someone has not been a goal or a request, but the aim is to draw attention to a serious substantive problem. The second question: 'Which municipalities did you consult before sending the proposal to the Ministry of Finance? Was such a proposal acceptable to the municipalities? ' The principles of the distribution of education grants were discussed between the Government Commission and the Municipalities' Cooperation Council in October and December last year and in January this year. The position of the Government Committee was, and is, that the distribution of education grants must be in accordance with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, in which support for the remuneration of support specialists and other staff is not provided for. The Co-operation Council of the Municipalities disagreed on this and, as has been said, the status quo remained a compromise, despite the conflict with the law. The third question: 'From what source do you think local authorities should find additional money to guarantee the salaries of support specialists when their budgets were drawn up on the basis of an agreement made? ' As I said, the task has been solved for the current year. We are now working in the 2013 perspective and we hope that a sensible solution will be found. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when analysing § 82 (3) of the PGS, which determines the number of persons whose remuneration is supported, there are no specialists mentioned above. The explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school shows that the Committee on Culture did not support amendments that would have extended the state budget support to the salaries of social pedagogues and logo beets. Thus, the legislator has deliberately decided not to extend state budget support to support specialists. As of now, the financing of support specialists is the responsibility of the local government under the law. But, as has already been said, in cooperation with local authorities, we are looking for a long-term solution that respects the interests of both parties. Question 4: 'Does this step by you as Minister for Education and Science mean that the ministry does not need support specialists in schools? " Good questioners! It's demagogy, to be honest. How, then, is not necessary? It is written in law on the initiative of the Ministry of Education and Research. The fact that one cost is not provided for in the framework of the state budget support does not mean that this support or service is not necessary. After all, local governments provide many services that are not covered by the state budget, but by other local government revenues. It certainly cannot be concluded from this that these services are in any way less important, secondary or otherwise inferior to anyone, not to mention the Minister for Education and Research. So once again, our aim is to raise the pay of educators, but above all of teachers. This requires clarity in funding, clarity in who is responsible for what, and accountability in case of failure to carry out the tasks as planned. Question 5: 'When does the Ministry of Education and Research plan to meet with representatives of educational staff to find an acceptable solution to teachers' salaries for all parties involved? ' I don't think I'm wrong to say that the Ministry of Education and Research meets several educators every week. This is particularly so in order to find, if not satisfactory, an acceptable solution for the parties to the increase in teachers' pay. We do this in different formal and non-formal formats. The main work on this topic is the broad-based working group on the reorganisation of the teaching profession, which includes representatives of the representative organisations of educators (Estonian Teachers' Association, Estonian School Leaders' Association, Estonian Educational Workers' Association) and several other organisations. The group's joint proposals will be developed in May. The consultation is open to the public and can be consulted at http://www.hm.ee/index.php?0512785. This issue is serious and important. But I'm pretty optimistic. Not next year, but in the coming three or four years, it will certainly be possible to raise teachers' salaries relatively, say, 20%. Perhaps this is the objective that we have set politically both as a political party and as a ministry, more generally as a coalition, that the average salary of a full-time and fully qualified teacher, which is independent of contact hours and all other formalities, should be 20% higher than the national average wage. True, not everyone would receive this average wage, some would receive somewhat less, hopefully not less than the national average wage, but some would also receive 30% or 40% more. I myself believe that decision-making at school level could be greater. This is supported by many, but unfortunately many do not support it for various reasons. Discussions will continue. We hope to find out at government level what legislative changes are necessary to put them into effect before 1 January 2013. Then we can start with a calm and long aim from 1 January 2013. I have confirmed, and I believe, that during the budgetary process I can ensure that no full-time teacher receives less than EUR 700 per month from 1 January 2013. I myself believe that this amount is even greater, but this figure I can give out today with full responsibility from this speaker's desk. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U46	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U47	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to draw your attention to an important problem. In fact, the Supreme Court has pointed out that if a government by law imposes duties or obligations on local governments, it must also provide a revenue base for them to comply with them. If they don't, it's a violation. Probably your predecessor's basic school and upper secondary school law by pushing through the Riigikogu in bluff. In particular, the law stated that, although municipalities receive a number of tasks, including the task of covering the costs of the salaries of specialised pedagogues, psychologists and social pedagogues, the law does not entail any additional costs for the municipalities. Now we see it was a bluff. We have therefore proposed amendments to the need to cover these local governments' costs. On the contrary, the revenue base of the municipalities has rather been reduced. I would ask you to specify what reasonable solution you want to reach in such a situation. Do you decide to reduce tasks by taking away the revenue base, or are you trying to find ways to increase the income base?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U48	First of all, the good questioner, I say that laws are passed and obligations are still imposed by the Riigikogu, the government cannot do that in any way, at least within the framework of the current constitution. If there are shortcomings or inaccuracies in the law, it is therefore necessary to deal with them first and foremost in the Riigikogu. Of course, the government has the right to take the legislative initiative, and it must also use it if it really is necessary. As regards the services or, let's say, the partial services that should be provided in basic education and general secondary education, it is true that the division of responsibilities between local authorities, or school managers, and the state, has not been determined with sufficient clarity. It has also created these so-called dead dog tossings over the fence, that whose duty it is and whose duty it is. There's a little bit of justice on both sides. That is why I pointed out earlier and I am now pointing out, in answer to your question, that we are trying to highlight these shortcomings and find a reasonable compromise in what must be done by one party and what must be done by the other. This is exactly what the Ministry of Education and Research is doing right now. I believe that it is possible to find solutions so that such, so-called two host dogs do not starve. Because, as I emphasised earlier, the aim is common: to improve the quality of education and, above all, to raise the pay of teachers. If the opportunities are greater, then there is certainly a need to increase the salaries of all other staff and other teachers, but above all the salaries of teachers. Such a call, I hope, will be met by local authorities with positive thinking and looking for opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U49	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U50	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! In one of your replies, you stressed that it was Parliament that drew this line between teachers and so-called support staff so that you would not do it. How about this? You are certainly more competent on educational issues than most Members. But you did make the difference by suggesting that teachers should raise their wages, but with their other salaries, let the municipalities themselves see how they can. Do you think that special educators are the same as other teachers? Or do you think it isn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U51	If they are specialized teachers, then they are not ordinary teachers, if they are other school staff, then they are other school staff, and if they are school leaders, then they are not teachers, etc. I do not know the difference, the difference is the law of the Estonian state. The law makes it quite clear that it has been the legislator, or your will, rather than my will, to whom this support has been or has not been granted. If you ask me how I see it, I will emphasise once again that, above all, there is good clarity. It should not be the case that, in matters of pay, people go knocking at the wrong door, where there are no people responsible for solving these problems. So, above all, clarity is important. If it is necessary to make a distinction, as was the will of the Riigikogu when adopting the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, then that distinction must be made. Today, this talk has been drawn so that there are teachers and school leaders on one side and all the rest of the school staff on the other side. What kind of clarity and agreement will come? I can't tell you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U52	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U53	Thank you. Dear Minister, For example, I do not think that even all political groups and parties, and precisely the coalition, would have wanted to raise teachers' salaries so badly. I still think that the budget is a matter of national priorities. The priority of this coalition is to increase defence costs to 2%, in addition to many other things, such as the moustache of foreign embassies, etc. But how much have you tried to explain in the government your view that the pay of teachers should have been increased before 2013? If you remember, the teachers were on Toompea for the first time in the autumn of 2011, before making the state budget. Why didn't you want to come to the Liberty Square to explain to the teachers during the support strike and the big strike how things are? After all, the teachers were essentially left unanswered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U54	Good questioner! At the third reading, the various parliamentary groups included a number of dedicated appropriations in the budget. I am saddened to say that none of these proposals provided for an increase in teachers' pay. But it was just a reply. Excessive politicisation of teachers' salary increases is not constructive. I have no reason to believe that teachers' friends in this Chamber would be sitting in opposition and teachers' enemies in the form of a coalition. I repeat: I am convinced that there is quite a consensus in this Chamber on the pay of teachers, but unfortunately, the fact that wearing water with a sieve does not raise teachers' wages is also true. If the resources for teachers' salaries and education as a whole do not reach the teachers, this problem must also be addressed. This must be done in cooperation with all parties involved in this process in one function or another. Once again, I very much hope, good Members, that we will be able to keep the issue of teachers' pay a little away from the political debate that is taking place (and rightly so) on many issues, and we will try to reach a common understanding of what should be done so that we do not have to come back from year to year and from one government to another on this issue. We have managed to find a solution in some cases when there has been consensus and a functional solution has been possible. Doctors were in a much worse situation a few years ago than they are now. This is still unsatisfactory, but we have a viable solution. I very much hope that there will also be a viable solution to teachers' pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U55	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Have you taken into account that when reform of public educational institutions for children with special needs is being carried out or these institutions are being re-examined, so obviously a number of children with special needs are then going to study in a regular school, then support systems are urgently needed? I know you're gonna say it's up to the local authorities, but these students are currently studying in state schools. If an educational institution is closed (for example, the poor technical condition of a house may be the reason), these students will be in schools where they need support systems. In fact, support systems also facilitate the work of teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U57	Of course, support systems are needed. As regards special educational establishments for children with special educational needs, they are partly in the hands of the state, partly in the hands of local authorities. This picture is quite written, and here, too, it is not very clear who is responsible for what. However, I would like us to achieve a situation where schools that are necessary as separate educational institutions for children with special educational needs are increasingly clearly the responsibility of the state. There are schools like this in larger municipalities. We should analyse at what pace and under what conditions it is possible and practical to transfer them to the country. That's one side of the problem. That must definitely be done. It was often not justified by our historical practice that many children with special educational needs were trained in a special school. Therefore, in many cases they should continue in mainstream school. It is quite clear that a better support system is needed in mainstream schools. It exists in many schools, but it does not exist in many schools. There are schools where the problem is lack of money, there are schools where the problem is a lack of skills and knowledge. It is a whole set of problems that the Ministry of Education and Research has dealt with and will continue to deal with. Part of this solution is the same document that you have asked me repeatedly and that I have promised you. Now I can say that this document exists. We will discuss this and make proposals on this basis. I myself believe that support systems should exist at school. Of course, money is also needed for support systems, but in the current situation, where teachers' salaries really cost less than 40%, I would argue that these resources should actually exist, they simply need to be found and used sensibly. So there's a lot of work to do. This must certainly take place in cooperation with local authorities, including on the financing side.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U58	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your meaningful answers, and also for your adherence to the agreement between the Government Committee and the Municipalities' Cooperation Council. But, Mr. Minister, what will happen from 2013, will the pay of the support teachers be borne by the local authorities? What is your position today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U60	Once again, there is no agreement on how to resolve this matter. I am quite confident that the government's regulation must be brought into line with the law. The executive does not have the right to legislate contrary to the law. How to resolve this issue is the subject of the debate. The amendment of the law cannot be ruled out either. But I would like to emphasise once again: the legislator has quite clearly expressed its unwillingness to impose additional obligations on the State. Let's discuss this. Some sort of solution has to be found. I cannot offer you a solution today, because this is the subject of the debate. I do, however, agree that the laws are for the enforcement of executive power and that failure to comply with them, however noble, cannot be acceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U61	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I was very concerned when you began to answer the question today so that you, as if, were trying to figure out where the money was going to go, but the clever local authorities somehow sneaked aside and didn't want to answer. You were finally clear on the picture. Once again, the answer was with such an undertone that local governments were breaking the law. Can you answer directly now whether this is the case or not? Do you have any local authorities, for example, who do not use teachers' money in a targeted way? Or is it like that, how do you say, jock-shape-level talk that could, of course, be better, but the problem is nothing?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U63	I have never said, publicly or publicly, that local authorities have broken the law. That's not what I said. However, I have argued and said once again that the Government of the Republic's regulation on support specialists is not in accordance with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. That's what I've got an opinion about. I have not designed it personally for entertainment, but in consultation with lawyers, by ordering expertise, etc. So there is a problem, no matter what we say or don't say. The prosecution is certainly not my purpose, and I have not made such accusations anywhere. However, I have said that I consider it appropriate and necessary for the funding of schools to be fully transparent. I very much hope that all calls on the use of money will be fully taken into account by all school managers, of course, by counting that they will not create too much administrative burden. But the analysis of what comes through the balance records information system of the Ministry of Finance has been carried out. It must be said, as I have already said, that a very small proportion of school costs will be paid by teachers, certainly this proportion should be increased. Maybe you should save on too fancy schoolhouses. I am not convinced that there must be as much heated area as there is in many cases. It's a matter of rationality, that decision can only be made by the schoolmaster. So there are problems and issues to deal with in relation to teachers' pay. I say once again: believe me, every time you just say it, that teachers' salaries are not sufficient, without analysing where significant sums of money disappear in the education sector, it is not responsible. I believe that every taxpayer's euro deserves us to know exactly where it is going and what it is going for, and that its spending has been considered. What is more important: the pay of teachers or the pay of other employees? What's more important is paychecks or school gorgeous looks? What's more important is the school's gorgeous look or some fourth point you didn't mention today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U64	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U65	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. You have repeatedly confirmed in this Chamber today that, first of all, there will be an increase in teachers' salaries and then the salaries of other workers will come. However, special educators have been trained to work with children with special needs. They must not be underestimated. When we talk about teachers' salaries, we all realize that teachers, working with talented students, also have the joy of receiving, because the achievements of talented students also mean retroactive joy to the teacher. However, special educators have received special training to work with children with special needs. However, could the Ministry not, along with the increase in teachers' salaries, also focus on the increase in the pay of specialized teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U66	Good questioner! Now there's been some big mess. The pay of a special educator is as much a teacher's salary as, say, a regular teacher or, as you said, a teacher's salary for talented children. We are not talking about special school teachers and teachers at regular schools today, but we are talking about support specialists who, in many cases, work in regular schools, but not just there. So there's some kind of misunderstanding. The salaries of teachers working in schools for children with special educational needs are similarly linked to the salaries of teachers or, as you said, to the salaries of teachers of talented children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U67	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U68	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You mentioned many alliances and groups with whom meetings were held to discuss the increase in teachers' salaries. But it was obvious that you didn't use the word 'trade unions'. Teachers' unions promised that after the spring lightnings and strikes, teachers would start a new protest round in the autumn. That is why I have a question, Mr Minister. Have you recently met teachers' union leaders? If there's been any meetings, maybe you can say a few words about it. Otherwise, people will come to the street again in the autumn and speak with a loud voice on the subject that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U69	I don't know what kind of unions you're talking about. I was talking about the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers, who have been involved in all discussions all the time. So I can't understand why you're complaining that the unions aren't involved. But if you specify which trade unions you are talking about, I may be able to answer that question more precisely. As far as strikes are concerned, strikes are certainly a legitimate form of expression of interest and, as such, are in place in a democratic country. I certainly do not have the aim of abolishing or banning all kinds of strikes, but I believe that constructive cooperation is always much more fruitful than calling for rights under slogans. Where all this can lead to, we can see it on TV. Estonia would not want such a fate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U70	Please, Mr Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U71	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! It is true that the issue of teachers' pay increases has been among the priorities of different coalitions throughout the ages, but in the local wage arrangements, the head of the school, i.e. the director, also determines a great deal. Years ago, we changed the law so that the leaders of schools could be dismissed only in the event of a very serious breach of the law. You could almost say we put them in office for life. What do you think this amendment wasn't premature?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U72	If you are referring to the fact that school leaders do not have fixed-term employment contracts but permanent employment contracts, I must admit that I am also in favour of permanent employment contracts for managers. However, in the case of a leader, I am in favour of legally guaranteed procedures for the release of a person from office if he or she fails to carry out his or her duties. In many cases, we create an illusion that we will employ a person, and if his contract ends in five years, we will get rid of him. But what do we expect for three or four years when it is clear that the driver will not be able to carry out his duties? Then he should be released from this hard work and find a new person. It is not very effective to expect a deadline to end in this way. It simply shows the administrative looseness of the employer. Continuous monitoring of performance and management decisions at the right time and with the right resoluteness are those instruments which, if necessary, can bring the heads of schools to order. I don't think there's a problem with the current arrangement. Rather, the question is whether the school board and council or city or rural municipality government can be demanding enough for school leaders and, if necessary, make unpleasant but necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U73	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering the questions. Let's start the negotiations. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U74	Madam Chairman! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, it has been said here several times today that teachers' salaries have been said more than usual in the past year from this remote control and also in the media. But politicians like to talk a lot about teachers' salaries. So teachers' pay has been a hot topic. I, too, have spoken about this issue from this platform, I have asked questions on the ground and, as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, have been involved in the Committee on Culture on this issue. Yes, politicians are accused of being populists for the most part. This time, I have looked at the issue of teachers' pay rises from two points of view. One aspect is that all politicians who come to the remote control or take the floor want to raise teachers' salaries, but few make proposals on which to do so. The Minister has said that this money is available in education money, it simply needs to be recovered and relocated, and then the pay is what teachers and politicians want and, as we have almost promised, that the 20% increase will come. I have made a proposal in the name of this board and in the press, on behalf of another group, where to take this money: this money must be taken from our national wealth, this money must be taken from the oil shale. There's that money right there. We know that four oil shale companies made over EUR 200 million in profits last year, but an increase in teachers' salaries of EUR 38 million per year is needed. There is no need to write this money on a different line for teachers' pay, but the legislator has given the government the opportunity to increase the resource tax. When we look at the law, we see that a resource tax of a certain amount up to a certain amount is an increase in the government. If the government really wanted to, it could have raised teachers' salaries half a year now, it could have done so from September this year, because these resources are there, the money is there. As an economic man, I say it's possible. There's no need to just talk about us wanting to do this. Let's do it! We Democrats will bring here tomorrow a draft board, which Rainer Vakra will read, where it is written that we will raise the resource tax. Then there's money to raise teachers' salaries. We'll do it from September 1st or January 1st, but that money is there. Let's not say there's no money! There's money. It takes wanting. You don't have to tell me that it's what you want, but it's what you really want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U75	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. Mr Tarmo Tamme, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U76	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! There is probably no Riigikogu membership where the increase in teachers' salaries is not mentioned as the main topic. I can say for my part that there is a big ball roll in connection with this raise, because it is not clear today, nor is it today, what the real increase in teachers' pay will be next year. They say the junior teachers could raise 15%, but I'll ask what happens to the other teachers. There is no real solution. Whether or not the right solution is a really good one, it's very difficult to say. I think the Minister has taken the right approach. In my opinion, too, there is a very large amount of education money in the buildings. But unfortunately, these buildings are still being built, and some are in the process of being built. Why they are allowed to be built is a question of their own. But there is so much money in the game that the money for building this box could raise teachers' salaries in some municipalities several times. One major problem is that they are teachers in general education schools and teachers in hobby schools. The teachers of hobby schools are known to be on the list of employees financed by local authorities. I myself have been head of the local government for 17 years and I think I know the local government budget to the details. I am asking the Minister what are the possibilities for local government to raise the salaries of school teachers, kindergarten teachers or also support specialists next year if they remain in local government budgets. I don't see much chance. Perhaps another street lighting lamp should be turned off or the streets should not be repaired, as it is known that there will be a huge increase in electricity prices next year, which will also affect educational institutions. Where does that extra money come from? For example, I don't know what to say today, but maybe someone's so smart. One could still honestly tell people that allowing teachers to raise their salaries now is like cheating, because this money does not really exist. In the Central Party Group, however, we agree with the Minister to look together for opportunities for teachers to finally receive a decent salary. I wish the Minister every success in this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U77	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U78	The final question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Eldar Efendiev, Ester Tuiksoo, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Priit Toobali, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toomi concerning the closure of Jõgeva schools submitted on 7 May 2012. Mr Marika Tuus-Laul's Speechboard, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister Aaviksoo! Ladies and gentlemen, This question concerns both the city of Jõgeva and the county of Jõgeva as a whole. We know that the reform of the school network has caused a great deal of confusion and there are very many questions. Currently, two schools with long traditions work in Jõgeva. At the meeting of the Jõgeva Council held on 26 April, the city of Jõgeva's education development plan was adopted until 2016, one of the objectives of which is to separate upper secondary school from primary school by creating a comprehensive school belonging to the city and a state secondary school with an academic focus. If you look at the school network throughout Jõgeva County, it becomes clear that the pure upper secondary school that will be created in Jõgeva can be the only upper secondary school in the whole county. The concept 'Analysis of the Jõgeva county school network and the starting points for its development', drawn up by the Ministry of Education and Research, offers several options for organising the Jõgeva county school network. We can see that there are two options: there will be only one pure upper secondary school or two secondary schools with progymnasiums. We have several questions and we ask them for answers. We are asking for very specific answers because, as we know, the new system must be launched as soon as next year. I think those answers are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U80	Thank you very much, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul. Please, Mr. Minister, to the speaker's desk again.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U81	Greetings for the third time to the President-in-Office and the Chamber! The question is about the closure of Jõgeva County schools. I think we all understand in this Chamber, and also in society in general, that schools are closed not only by the Ministry of Education, not even by school keepers, but basically by the unborn children. Also, the children who have left, along with their parents, have gone to larger cities, beyond the capital and many farther away from the capital. In Jõgeva County, there are estimated to be half the number of upper secondary school children in 2020 compared to 2008. You can't get over it. You can't get around it. This trend is unlikely to change. Sadly, it is not only in Jõgeva County, but in several Estonian counties. Although the birth rate has increased to some extent and its effects have already reached the first classes, migration is in the opposite direction reducing this growth. So the honest answer is this: in most Estonian counties, with the exception of Harju and Tartumaa, the number of upper secondary school students will never be the same in the future. For me, the central issue in this situation is not closing or not closing upper secondary schools, not even money or, in some ways, not the pay of teachers, but whether every child has reasonable access to high-quality upper secondary school education in three, five and fifteen years' time. If we don't do something today and just talk, then, I'm afraid, we can't say it with responsibility. The problem is not at this point, good MPs, whether there are any upper secondary schools that currently have 30, 50 or even 70 students in upper secondary school. It's already decided. When the school manager takes a specific decision, it is actually a technical and formalisation issue, in essence these decisions have already been taken. It is not decided whether all counties will have upper secondary schools that guarantee competitive general secondary education. We have stronger and weaker counties. Objectively, Hiiumaa is the least prosperous, but for structural reasons Põlvamaa, Jõgevamaa, Valgamaa and Läänemaa are also quite vulnerable. Investing in a strong upper secondary school in the county centre is one solution and it is a quick solution. By my better understanding, this needs to be done as soon as possible and everything else involved. What these changes in Jõgevamaa mean for Põltsamaa, Palamus and Peipsiääri are not entirely clear. When I say 'to the end', I mean what happens next year or the next year and what happens next year. But now the answers to the questions. The first question: 'How do you, as Minister of Education and Research, estimate that the establishment of the state gymnasium in Jõgeva City will affect the continuation of other upper secondary schools in Jõgeva County? ' Functionally, you need a high school. It can be said that there is no need, but a political decision has been made that at least one must be, and that it is feasible, necessary and promising. It is quite clear that Põltsamaa still has the will, the ability to hold secondary school in Põltsamaa for some time. For how long, it depends not only on the decisions of the Ministry of Education and Research, but also on the decisions of very many parents and children. When developments such as those in recent years take place in upper secondary schools, we can see that many parents are also trying to move their children from quite viable upper secondary schools to Tartu and Tallinn, a little less in Pärnu and elsewhere. I don't think that's good. In order not to move their children beyond the county, the upper secondary schools of the county centres in particular should be strengthened. So, yes, it affects other upper secondary schools. The current upper secondary school network is certainly not sustainable in a five-year perspective, not to mention ten years. The second question: How many teachers lose their jobs in reorganizing the school network in Jõgeva? " It's hard to say. If, by the end of this year, the Director of the State Upper Secondary School has organised competitions for teachers and staff and these posts have been filled, then it will also be clear to other schools how the filling of teachers' positions will look from 1 September 2013. Neither the goal nor the by-product of restructuring the upper secondary school network is necessarily the unemployment of a large number of teachers. This is not an objective, and when it comes to organising the upper secondary school network alone, it is not a by-product either. But it is quite clear that the current number of teachers is not reasonably consistent with the number of students and that the number of teachers will decrease somewhat in the future. If you want to know exactly how much, I can't tell you that, but I'm sure it's more than 11⁄2 percent, and I believe it's less than 30/40%. The numbers between them depend very much on local decisions at the level of school managers and, to some extent, on the decisions of the Government, the Ministry and the Riigikogu. Question 3: 'The bilateral agreement signed by the Mayor of Jõgeva and the Minister of Education and Research sets out the action plan and principles for the establishment of the state gymnasium in Jõgeva. Were the people of Jõgeva consulted before signing the agreement, and what position have they maintained? ' Kalle Küttt, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education and Research, has met several times with members of the Jõgeva City Council and Jõgeva City Council, council committees and school directors, who have been invited and appointed to express the interests of the people of their city. Question 4: 'On what grounds does the Ministry of Education and Research prefer the creation of state secondary schools instead of the continuation of today's municipal secondary schools? " What are these basic tasks? A reasonable organisation of the upper secondary school network means that the reasonable service area of a single upper secondary school generally covers many local authorities. The obligation to maintain this upper secondary school may be unreasonable for quite practical and understandable reasons. However, the establishment of a state secondary school puts the local authorities in an equal position when sending students to school. It is true that larger municipalities have historical experience, competence and hopefully also options to serve a larger number of students in municipal primary schools outside one local government. This practice exists in Tallinn, Tartu and other major cities. There is no intention of nationalizing them with force, but there is certainly a possibility and need to create state secondary schools in addition to Jõgeva and Viljandi counties in Haapsalu, Võru, Valga, Järvamaa and Ida-Virumaa. This is what we are dealing with, more concrete proposals will probably be born in the autumn. We hope to reach political agreement at the level of the Cabinet before Midsummer Day. Once again, I stress that the aim is not to shut down schools. The aim is to structure the Estonian upper secondary school network so that we can be sure that high-quality upper secondary school education is guaranteed wherever it is needed and at least in all counties in the form of one or more upper secondary schools. That is the purpose. I certainly want the proposed amendments to the law to give the Ministry of Education and Research a clear task of planning the school network, of course in cooperation with local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U82	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U83	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said about Jõgeva County that you don't know everything yet. You don't know how many teachers lose their jobs either. I understand this is really hard for you to say. At the same time, this reform is more than under the door. We understand from these documents that by September next year everything must be done and decided. When will this final clarity come after all?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U84	Now, as they say, let's take one step at a time. If you remember the Palamuse, you can say that if you don't get the whole task done, then the side of the road. Now let's think a little bit about what's reasonable and realistic. We're talking about organizing the school network, shaping it to suit needs. Although there is no shortage of school buildings in Estonia as a whole, there are areas where there is also a shortage of school buildings, for example in Tallinn ring municipalities, but also elsewhere. If we want (in many cases it is probably reasonable and justified) to separate basic schools and upper secondary schools, then we need to rebuild schools. This cannot be done by 1 September 2013. It's nobody's plan. However, it would be highly desirable that, by the end of this calendar year, the principles of who will do what and what responsibility will be included in the law. If the planning of the school network is to be the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research in cooperation with local authorities, the Ministry of Education and Research will hopefully be able to complete this plan by the end of 2013. When it is ready by the end of 2013, we will have a financial period for the European Union of 2014 to 20.20 including the Structural Funds provided for in it. These funds are intended to be used to clean up the school network. That makes sense. They can be used for student homes, soft measures or retraining, etc. So if we do this rationally, there's a law before Christmas, a school network plan before next Christmas, and this whole thing could happen, if we agreed, in the next eight years. A lot of things are born faster, but a lot of things take more time. Make sure you don't spread the idea that Aaviksoo wants everything ready for yesterday or, better yet, the day before yesterday. But we definitely have to make decisions at some point. There is no point in delaying with these decisions either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U85	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U86	Thank you. Mr. Minister! There are other examples. For example, over 50% of Värska Gymnasium graduates received the university's state budget positions. What might be the reason that this high school should be closed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U87	One year, the number of students admitted to the university is a number that each school must be proud of. But schools find different examples of their glorious history. I think that we need to look at the whole problem in a responsible way at the perspective of five and ten years and think about what is reasonable. I too would sincerely be delighted if Setu High School were born and why not Värska. But if we look at it on the ground, it turns out that if the setus have such plans and maybe they have wider support, then all the local people may not support this plan if they are thinking about the future of their children. Graduation of Misso upper secondary school did not lead to their children going to Värska, but to other schools, not even Vastseliina, but to Võru and Tartu, but also to Tallinn. Such decisions are dependent on the free choice of citizens in a free country. All of this is to be seen reasonably and to see what we can do. We are able, more than that, I think it is our duty to provide high-quality upper secondary school education in all county centres. If local governments and the state are left with power and will, then we will do more. Antsla, Räpina, Põltsamaa, Kohila I can still name the places where there are certainly opportunities to support upper secondary school, but I cannot say today that it will be sensible in ten years' time and that the local people are convinced of it too. It still needs to be discussed and decided gradually in specific cases. But the general principle should be that every county has a competitive upper secondary school at almost any cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U88	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U89	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. At present, the Ministry and the Government have taken the view that state secondary schools are being set up in county centres. But how do you feel about making a state-owned upper secondary school part of a county centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U90	I think it's worth thinking at least, more than that, we've been pretty serious about that idea. At my request, one person (I have been standing here before you for too long, so I have forgotten the name, after which I will tell you who it was) met the experience of Finland and, on this basis, made one model for Estonia, according to which the vocational education and training institution and upper secondary school would basically function as a single unit. Students would then enter one school where they could choose both blocks of general education and blocks of vocational education. Why not take a small cooking or driving course in addition if you want to become a doctor or a physicist in the future? I think it's worth thinking anyway. In the Ministry of Education and Research, we want to strengthen such cooperation in any case. If administrative aggregation is too long a step, then at least students at law level should be given the right to attend such courses if this is possible in a spatial and logistical manner. I'm sure it's best to keep working in that direction. I believe that the positive experience and enthusiasm of Finns are a very good example here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U91	Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science, for answering the questions. You've been on the remote for a long time. Thank you. I will open negotiations and call for a remote colleague, Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! I also thank the Minister first. I liked the view that every child must have access to proper upper secondary school education. This is really very right and reasonable. However, when we look at the papers and documents available to us, that does not seem to be the case. Different variants of the further existence or non-existation of Jõgeva County schools are presented in a document such as the analysis of the Jõgeva county school network and the starting points for its development prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research. If there are so many of these options, it seems that there really is no telling exactly what they want. One might have thought that the final position would simply be concealed, but the Minister said quite frankly that it was probably the case that there would be one upper secondary school for the whole of Jõgeva County. I do not deny at all that, since the students are getting less and less, the parents do not have social certainty about raising children, then schools need to be tightened up a little. However, if we see that there is only one pure upper secondary school in Jõgeva County for variant B, one 8-class school and 13 comprehensive schools and, in the case of variant D, only two secondary schools with progymnasium, two 6-grade primary schools and 11 comprehensive schools, it is really hard to understand whether politicians and officials know exactly what the distance between these cities is. For example, there are 40 kilometers from Blackwater to Jõgeva, and there are just as many of you from Jõgeva to Põltsamaa. Where's the transport coming from? Where do these boarding houses come from? Or isn't it? What about education grants? There are dozens and dozens of questions. Now, as we have heard today, the only state-owned gymnasium in the future will remain in the River. Do we really believe that someone from Põltsamaa is going to go to Jõgeva school? I don't think so. Moreover, all this must be completed by 1 September 2013. As regards the city of Jõgeva, the documents state that one comprehensive school belonging to the city of Jõgeva will first be formed on the basis of the two current general education schools and preparations for its formation must be completed by February 2013 at the latest. There's less than a year. As you can see, these things are being done with the hands of local authorities, so-called voluntary coercion. Two high school schools with long traditions must also be merged and state secondary schools must be launched. In the city development plan, I do not know how much the city has agreed with you, so that it should be done by September 2013. Those dates are all in the papers. I don't think anyone asked the crowd for anything. The elections allowed free education and I do not know what else, such as reducing home expenses, but they still do what they decide in the back rooms. So, I repeat, the formation of the state gymnasium in Jõgeva means the closure of the rest of the state gymnasiums in the county. If the minister has spoken in the past of 54-100 upper secondary schools across Estonia, which are in place of the current 220, there is no other way. At times, it seems to me that the great partner of the coalition has put the minister in a bit of a fork; this reform simply has to be done and there is no other option. But it is clear that the current school reform has put too much emphasis on the separation of primary schools and upper secondary schools. The aim of the Ministry is, however, to separate funding for basic schools and upper secondary schools and, let's say, straight out, to cut it. We believe that the aim should be to improve the content of education, but also, of course, to value teachers. I think that our education does not need very serious reforms, because its quality is good. Just Saturday, the Evening Paper presented the OECD's assessment of 34 countries. We were the second and third behind almost everything. We still had 33nd or 32nd place in terms of living conditions, state satisfaction, health, employment, size of income, security and other aspects. But in education, we were very much in the lead, in the fifth place. We had such good results in education and the environment. I don't think this system should be reformed so much, or, let's say straight out, broken. If we are going to close three of the four upper secondary schools, that means we are cutting off the opportunities for young people to study further. It is clear that young people who have graduated from upper secondary school will still have a much wider choice in the future. To date, we have not actually received an answer as to why, after all, three or five parallel classes provide better upper secondary education than one or two classes. But the Minister said today that the main question is money. So what do I do? But I really want to ask how long we can make these cuts and how much longer Estonia will last. This is, of course, worn-out talk, but look at everything that's closed in the country: post offices and bank offices have been shut down, rescue troops are losing, pharmacies are closed, shops are closed, public vehicles have stopped moving. The municipal purse has been mercilessly cut and bankrupted, the public service has disappeared from the country, pensions are no longer taken home free of charge. Now if we lose these schools, we close three out of four, and we keep only one high school, there's nothing left on Earth. If school goes away, everything goes away. It doesn't matter if one government resigns after this kind of killing. It has already been done, the destruction has been done and, unfortunately, life cannot be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U93	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, after a hammer hit, everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U95	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm so sorry there's so few of you left in this hall. I am certainly speaking today on a subject that deserves dozens and dozens of members of the Riigikogu to listen to it in this Chamber. I wanted to tell you today about this beautiful day, yesterday, Mother's Day. Mother's Day is an extremely beautiful day in Estonia and elsewhere in the world. I want to talk about this beautiful day today. This beautiful day has a beautiful tradition, namely, the title of the mother of the year and the titles of the mothers of the region. I want to congratulate all the mothers who got this title of dignity. The mother of Põlvamaa's year was awarded this year as teacher Diana Asur, while the mother of Võrumaa's year became a kindergarten teacher Katrin Parv. This title was awarded for the first time in Valgamaa and became self-employed, the mother of six children Kaja Hindre. One of the most festive events of the whole day was when Siiri Oviir, president of the Estonian Women's League, gave the title to her mother for more than a year. It's Margit Amer. We congratulate all these mothers! I would also like to say that there are many mothers in Estonia who deserve the title of the mother of the year. They're very good mothers for their children, their families, they're good members of society. Today, being a mother is far from easy. We heard Marika talking about what's been going on in the country. One can only guess how difficult it is for mothers to cope with today when it is for mothers to raise children. But has it ever been easy being a mother? After all, the birth of a child to a mother is a contract with a child, that is, an obligation and a promise to raise a child well. They say it used to be so much easier to raise children. You dressed the kid, sent him out the door, you knew his school and school were safe, so he'd come home with the knowledge. Family life got caught in the house. In the past, there was more sighting and support for each other because everyone was more settled, there was less migration, everyone knew each other, and so they had more responsibilities against each other. There are many more temptations these days. Mothers have many more concerns, many more dangers. You need to see everything that's happening in children's souls, minds, and hearts. Internet supplies have opened many doors, from which not only good comes to the children's bedroom, but also many evils. That's why Mom always has to be on the lookout. Along with modern communication tools, the child can bring a lot of kila-kola to the school. When Toots wore a puppy in the school's bosom and some more things he could lay on the teacher's desk at school, imagine how many unnecessary things these communication tools, smartphones, and all of that, carry the school with him today's child, and so every day. Mothers' fears and concerns have changed. Mothers are now concerned about whether school is safe, whether school is safe. When I drove home last time, I listened to the radio. It asked how Estonian society feels about legalisation of same-sex marriages. I remembered a conversation with a mother who said she had a 23-year-old son who never brought her a girlfriend. The son said, "How do you know I'll bring you a girl, maybe bring a young man? " I mean, if this young man brings home a groom instead of a bride, my mother's heart will also forgive it, for my mother's heart is full of endless tenderness and holds all the anomalies. Finally, if the lives of mothers become very difficult, mothers have the right and obligation to turn to the Riigikogu, the state and the government. We, who are sitting here in the Riigikogu, have the duty and right to make the lives of Estonian mothers better, to improve the lives of our families and the lives of our children. I congratulate all mothers afterwards on Mother's Day! I wish them health, a beautiful spring and a beautiful summer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-05-14_U96	Thank you for those beautiful words. There's no more calls, the trial's over. Closure of the sitting at 5.17 p.m.
