ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 10th working week Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will hand over the draft law supplementing the Penal Code. We propose that the Penal Code be supplemented by a provision which provides for the prohibition of the purchase of underage sex. The draft law on supplementing the Penal Code presented by our group complements the existing Penal Code with a provision that criminalises the purchase of sex from a minor person under the age of 18. The amendment is necessary because Section 2 of Chapter 11 of the current Penal Code, entitled 'Crimes against a minor', provides for a number of criminal offences which protect the normal mental and sexual development of a minor, but does not provide that the purchase of services characteristic of prostitution by a minor is punishable and, apart from ethical condemnation in society, legally condemned. Several studies on prostitution, which are also included in the explanatory memorandum to the draft, indicate that 50-70% of people in Estonia who act as prostitutes have started their activities underage. This shows that this fatal chain is mostly minor. So this is the draft law that our group has tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U3	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U4	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the inquiry that 15 members of the Central Party Group will present to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. We are very interested in the issue of the pay gap between women and men. In Estonia, the gender pay gap is one of the largest among the Member States of the European Union. According to the data in the "Sex wage gap in Estonia" collection of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the spread of wages in both the private sector and the public sector is very high. Men earned 30% higher wages than women in the middle, while the gender pay gap in the European Union as a whole is on average 15%. Unfortunately, on 8 March, the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, promised a rather cynical remark in this difficult situation on "The Three Irons." The Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, stated the following: 'If we take a female teacher, a pay gap, then it is not a bad salary. ' We find that, at a time when the Ministry of Social Affairs is being set up by a council seeking to bridge the pay gap between women and men, such a remark from a member of the government is extremely inappropriate. We therefore have six questions for the Minister. We would like a comment on his rather strange and cynical remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one bill and one inquiry. If the draft law complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to adopt it in accordance with the law, and if the inquiry complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 4 April, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 14 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, We are going to address the items on today's agenda. The first and only point is the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group today. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U7	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to note that this is a bill that has already been supported by a part of this House. I am talking about the fact that draft Social Democrats 164 have received support. So this part of the bill I'm going to talk briefly, because it's pretty much clear. I would just like to remind you that, for ten years, Estonian citizenship and Estonian passport have been taken away from people when they had received it because of an official's mistake. In the end, we have now begun to correct our mistakes. The drafting of the bill was due to the need to bring the Citizenship Act into line with the conventions ratified by Estonia and the internationally recognised principles of giving children citizenship. In addition, applicants for citizenship over 65 years of age are released from the Estonian language examination and an examination of the knowledge of the Constitution and Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia is created in addition to the Estonian language in a working language of the Council of Europe. Estonia has not yet acceded to a number of important conventions aimed at reducing citizenshiplessness. What is important here is, for example, the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Citizenship Disabilities, which aims to reduce the future occurrence of citizenshiplessness by avoiding citizenship at birth. Articles 1 to 4 of the Convention specifically concern the nationality of children, stating that citizenship should be granted to a person who is otherwise stateless and who has a functional link with that State at birth or at birth. In addition, the Convention requires the grant of citizenship by birth, by law or by application. Of course, the opponents are now tempted to remind me that Estonia has neither ratified the 1954 Convention on the Status of stateless persons nor mentioned the Convention on the Reduction of Citizenship. In order to prevent this argument, I recall two speeches held here in the Riigikogu, the last of which sounded less than a year ago, in May last year. This speech was given by Hans ten Feld, the representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Baltic and Nordic Regional Bureau, who stressed the need for a rapid solution to the problem of citizenshiplessness. As Estonia has not acceded to the above conventions, it considers that it should find a way to simplify the rules on the grant of citizenship. Mr Feld stressed that Estonia could primarily solve the issue of the citizenship of the children of stateless persons born here, giving them citizenship by birth. The second speech I have had in mind was made in this Chamber almost 15 years ago when the Riigikogu discussed the draft Citizenship Act in 1998. The author of this speech is the current President of the Republic of Estonia and then Foreign Minister Toomas Hendrik Ilves, who stressed that guaranteeing citizenship for children of stateless parents since their birth is a principle of international law recognised and observed by other European countries. According to Ilves, it is impossible to deny the humanistic content of this principle. In addition, the speaker noted that internationally, arguments that should prove that Estonia cannot apply this principle for one reason or another have never been accepted. The former Minister of Foreign Affairs drew attention to the emerging contradiction, according to which Estonia cannot do two things at once: to seek a place equal among the equal in the European Union and, at the same time, to talk about the utmost uniqueness of its problems and concerns, a uniqueness which, as the only one in Europe, does not allow Estonia to apply the general rules. Unfortunately, the good idea put forward by the government at the time did not find support in the Riigikogu. A somewhat simplified procedure for applying for citizenship came into force, but it is still difficult and time-consuming for non-citizens. The procedure whereby non-citizen parents can apply for citizenship under a simplified procedure for their children up to 15 years of age is still valid. However, there are parents who miss this opportunity. In his reply of 24 October last year, the Minister of the Interior wrote that if the parent has not applied for a residence permit or citizenship for his child during the year, he or she will be informed again of the obligation to apply for Estonian citizenship or residence permit for his or her child. In order not to oblige anyone to apply for citizenship, we propose that the system be changed so that parents can do so more easily in the case of newborns. In addition, we believe that one of the reasons why we should start by giving citizenship to children born here, whose at least one parent has been recognised as stateless persons and who live here permanently, is certainly the need to end the endless transfer of the problems brought about by recent history. If there were to happen to be a person in the Chamber for whom any proposal to amend the Citizenship Act is equivalent to undermining the principles of citizenship, then it is for those colleagues that I consider it necessary to stress separately that, according to the draft, this is not a question of giving birth to these children, as this would, unfortunately, be contrary to the fundamental principle of citizenship in ius sanguin applied in Estonia. This is the citizenship of the birth. It's not the same as giving birth citizenship. In today's open society, it is high time to overcome opposition on the ground of national relations and to take a major step forward in integration. Citizenship acquired at birth would certainly also facilitate the integration of parents and the integration of their interests and future with the Republic of Estonia. The exemption from the Estonian language examination of applicants over 65 years of age has also been included in the draft. It provides for the exemption of applicants over 65 years of age from the obligation to pass the Estonian language proficiency examination, in the same way as the Aliens Act provides for long-term residence permits for applicants. In addition, the draft creates the possibility to pass an examination of the knowledge of the Constitution and Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia in a working language of the Council of Europe in addition to the Estonian language. The official languages of the Council of Europe are English and French and the working languages are German, Italian and Russian. The change stems from the need to encourage the integration of older people into Estonian society. They are not exempt from the examination of knowledge of the Constitution and the Citizenship Act, but they could do so in a language suitable for them. We are of the opinion that knowledge of the basis of the functioning of the country of residence and its beliefs is also extremely important for a person who does not speak the Estonian language. Finally. As initiators of the draft act, we see a number of positive effects on the draft. Firstly, it would reduce the number of stateless people. Secondly, by ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1996, Estonia would already fulfil an international obligation to give priority to the child's interests over political considerations as regards the issue of children's citizenship. Thirdly, there would be a reduction in bureaucracy that would save both parents' and the state's time and money, as well as the human resources of the country. Fourthly, it would eliminate the situation that, since 1 April 1995, an Estonian citizen cannot be considered to have been granted an Estonian passport unduly, but has not provided false information. In summary, I say so much that the draft is an initiative that will undoubtedly contribute to the integration processes of Estonian society and thereby strengthen our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, before you press the button, to clarify the content of the bill, because its media coverage has, unfortunately, been largely inadequate. If it is clear to you, I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U8	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Perhaps you will explain to the Chamber of Riigikogu what the difference between the official languages and the working languages of the Council of Europe is and which is the result of such a very interesting conclusion or provision that you have formulated in such a way that an examination of the knowledge of the Constitution and the Citizenship Act in Estonia could also be given, for example, in Italian?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U10	Thank you for asking, Mr Herkel. I am deeply sorry that you did not hesitate to ask me this question before you wrote an excellent article in the newspaper Pärnu Postimees, where you even made an interesting conclusion that the Centre Party offers Estonia six official languages. I would call this statement malicious, but I do not want to think of my colleague, so I will answer your question. It is clear that hardly a 65-year-old Italian, French or British citizen will discover one day that he is keen to have Estonian citizenship. This may happen, but I don't think that's gonna happen. The point is that Russian is among these languages. You had a very correct conclusion. Why did Russian come in here like that? Russian does not have any status in the Estonian state; we cannot call it a minority language, for example. It is the same foreign language as all other foreign languages, from Chinese to Ukrainian. That is why this language is in here and why we are talking about the working languages of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U11	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U12	Thank you very much. I hope that most of this hall will sense how vulnerable the community of people with such low population numbers, its culture and language are in the area of influence of large languages. But I do not want to talk about this, but I am asking specifically, given the proposal made in the bill to give people over 65 years of age the opportunity to take a test in Russian, i.e. to become a citizen without basically speaking Estonian. How do you comment that Article 38 of the Russian Constitution says directly that Russian citizenship can only be obtained by a person who speaks Russian freely?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U13	I think that you should ask a question about the Russian Citizenship Act to a member of the Russian State Duma, not to me. I'm not qualified to discuss these matters. As far as the first part of your question is concerned, you are wrong. You see, in order to obtain Estonian citizenship, an Estonian language examination at level A2 had to be carried out until 2008. If an elderly person living in Narva thought he would study Estonian at level A2, pass the exam and be granted citizenship, then in 2008 the rule was changed and now he has to take the exam at level B1. For an older person who lives in an environment where there is no social ties with Estonian-speaking people or language practice, this is an almost impossible task. This does not mean, however, that the person does not speak the language. He speaks the language to the extent that he can go shopping, talk to a doctor, talk to a social worker, but he is unable to pass a B1 exam. It's not easy. After 9th grade, children will perform a B1 exam, but they will have already learned more than a thousand hours of Estonian by then. So that doesn't mean people don't speak the language, they know it, but that level isn't enough to pass the required exam. That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U14	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Your draft provides for the inclusion of § 351 in the Citizenship Act, which would create a new citizenship of the type of birth citizenship. I also found it unclear in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs where you presented the draft, which is the substance of this new category, given that in fact the same thing could have been added to § 13, which talks about simplified naturalisation. After all, the aim is the same: that children born here should be granted simplified citizenship. You have decided to create a new category of citizenship. I have no idea what its content and purpose is. Can you explain, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U16	Thanks for asking. As the Commission has said, this is rather a technical issue. The point is that we could not put such a thing as citizenship acquired by birth here, because if a non-citizen's child acquires citizenship by birth, it is not in accordance with the foundations of Estonian citizenship policy. That's why we came up with such a thing as birth citizenship. It's not the same citizenship as naturalization, because you can't talk about naturalization when you're two weeks old. That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U17	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It seems to me that your own perfect Estonian speaks in many ways against the content of this bill, but that is why. I ask what, in your opinion, prevents the children of stateless persons from becoming Estonian citizens in the current situation. Where do you think the country has done wrong in its current state?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U19	Thank you. Unfortunately, my Estonian is not perfect. I'm serious. I speak Estonian at a high level, but I only got 92 points out of 100 on the exam, even though I am a professional journalist. I had to write essays and I wrote them for an hour and a half. I must say that everyone who did this exam at the same time failed, for the simple reason that ordinary people do not write essays in normal life. So the topic of the Estonian language examination is not as uniform as Estonians imagine. It's not that simple. As far as your question is concerned, I think the draft answers that question. I think that the Estonian state could be more flexible when we talk about children. We don't have too many children in this country. According to this draft, we want to give the opportunity to apply for birth citizenship also to children whose parent is a Russian citizen and the other parent has a grey passport. Why are we doing this? As I said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Russian law does not allow a child to be a non-citizen. This means that if such a couple have a child, that child will automatically be granted Russian citizenship and no one will ask their parents whether they want it or not. We have given almost 300 new citizens to the Russian Federation in three years. Why are we doing this? This really does not make sense in a situation where our society is ageing and we have so few children.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U20	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U21	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you very simply and very directly. There was a reference to the possible introduction of bilingualism in Estonia. Can you confirm that this draft law is not the first and creepy step towards establishing bilingualism in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U22	Thank you. If you listen to me, you will understand that learning the Estonian language is not an impossible task. We're talking about people aged 65 and over. If we take into account the average life expectancy of our people, I'm sorry, it may sound a little cynical, then they won't be living with this Estonian citizenship for very long. So these generalisations, I think, are a little out of place. As far as bilingualism is concerned, it is not mentioned here. How do I put it? Beauty is in the eyes of the viewer, and fear is also in the eyes of the viewer. We actually have some places in Estonia where we can use Russian. Yesterday, Mr Michal, with whom we talked about free state legal aid, which is available in Russian and also in English, stood right here in the remote. It doesn't bother anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U23	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Thanks a lot, Yana Toom! As co-rapporteur, I ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U24	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed a draft 165 at its regular meeting on 13 March 2012. The representative of the initiator of the bill from the faction of the Yana Toom Keskerakond took part as a guest and officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Police and Border Guard Board took part as representatives of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic had also received an opinion on the draft, which revealed that the Government of the Republic did not support the draft. The debate on the draft was very thorough. The representative of the Government of the Republic mentioned that the Government does not support the draft, with the exception of the amendment to § 32 of the Citizenship Act, which coincides with Bill 164. This concerns the implementation of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. The representative of the Government of the Republic drew attention to the fact that the law would entail a great deal of costs if the bill were to become a law, as it would be quite expensive to allow the examination of citizenship in these five languages. The discussion also sought to explain what the legislator's intentions were when drafting the current Act on Citizenship. Even now, persons born before 1930 can pass the citizenship exam in another language rather than in Estonian. Did the legislator wish to fix the age (65 years) or date of birth by law? The initiator of the draft act and the representative of the Government of the Republic did not find a common language on this matter. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: First, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that 165 drafts be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 20 March. This decision was taken by consensus. As the initiator's rapporteur, Ms Toom, was unable to attend the meeting on 20 March, it was impossible to discuss this item in plenary and this item was postponed to the next working week, 3 April, or today. Secondly, it was decided to appoint Andrei Korobeinik as rapporteur, i.e. I (this decision was also adopted by consensus). Thirdly, it was decided to reject the draft (for 6 and against 4 members of the Commission). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U25	Thank you very much. The question is Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, You just mentioned the 1930s, which is the limit right now. A person born before that is exempt from taking the exam. Did the Commission not, by chance, discuss the issue of how to deal with a person born in 1931? What is the fundamental difference between two people's learning capacity when one is 81 and the other is 82 years old?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U27	Thank you for your question. The Commission discussed this. The debate was very long. They tried to find out what the legislator's intentions were here. The representative of the Government of the Republic thought that the aim was to impose a limit on the year of birth, i.e. those born after 1930 must pass the exam in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U28	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U29	Dear waitress, Do you see the danger to the Estonian state and the danger you see in the fact that people wishing to have citizenship could learn about the Estonian Constitution in their own language, for example Russian, and also give answers to the exam in this language, which would certainly be more comprehensive in this case? After all, the language examination requirement remains in the Citizenship Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U30	This issue was also under discussion in the Commission. The main problem is that the possibility of passing an exam in these five languages is expensive. This implies that in any place where the examination can be carried out, it should also be possible in Italian, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U31	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! As you remember, I left the debate quite quickly and this bill was discussed without me. I'll come back to that 1930. Has the provision of Estonian citizenship been discussed posthumously?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U33	As I recall, this debate took place in your presence, nothing new emerged at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U34	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U35	Thank you. Dear waitress, I am not Estonian and you are not Estonian, but we speak Estonian. Maybe I expressed my thoughts somehow so that you didn't understand the question, but the question was, what's the difference between an 81- and an 82-year-old? We have been debating this issue in this Chamber in my presence at least since 1999. To me, colleagues Liia Hänni and Marju Lauristin at the time explained warmly that at the age of 68, any language can be learned perfectly. Things have changed now. Explain to me why a 81-year-old person is on that list as if he were able to learn the language.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U36	Thank you for your question. This was not the real point of view in the Commission, but I will answer your question. My personal opinion is that the difference is about one year.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U37	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U38	Thank you, my dear waitress, for your very direct answer. But do you think that you would support or would the Commission support this provision if we were to write directly there that it would be possible to pass the constitutional examination in Russian and English? Those who know these languages should continue in Estonia, which would not make the adoption of this exam much more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U39	Thank you. That's what we were talking about. The representative of the Government of the Republic also claimed that if, for example, only Russian would be mentioned there, the costs would be different. Since it contained what it said, or five languages, we did not discuss it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U40	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question, too, concerns cost. This was one of the reasons for the government's failure to support this draft, and the Commission's position was also that. If the position of the Commission and of the Government is that it is too expensive, then it is therefore necessary to know the specific cost of the additional cost per year if the citizenship examination could be carried out in those five languages. What is this specific amount per year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U42	Thank you. Unfortunately, this figure did not sound in the Commission. The author of the draft law felt that the law did not impose any additional costs. That was the fundamental contradiction. The government representative thought that the additional costs would be due to the fact that the examination could be carried out in these five languages. He did not propose a specific cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U43	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I would remind you that the government representative actually said the amount. This amount was EUR 50000 for five languages, which is not much at all. But my question is this: do you really believe that the Italians, the French and the Germans are going to apply for Estonian citizenship on a massive scale when they are 65 years old?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U45	Thank you for your question. Personally, I doubt that, but there was no further discussion in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U46	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Short question: How does a deaf drum pass the language exam?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U48	Thank you! This issue was not discussed in the Commission either.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U49	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I would like to hear once again what this key issue was, for which it was decided to reject the draft, but not to discuss it and perhaps to improve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U51	Thank you! There were several reasons. First of all, the same costs that were mentioned earlier. Secondly, at the end of the debate, the question was whether it would be conceivable to put forward parts of the draft in order to make the proposals for improvement separate. The initiator of the bill replied that he was considering it, but as we can see, it was not done. So, unfortunately, if at least one point was not appropriate, six members of the Commission did not consider it possible to adopt the draft as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U52	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You said you were talking about presenting this bill in pieces. Can you tell us what parts would be acceptable to the Commission for future action and what would be those parts that would not give the opportunity to proceed with this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U54	For example, the part concerning the implementation of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, which coincides with the draft law 164, would probably be supported as the draft 164 was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U55	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Andrei Korobeinik. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Andres Herkel, representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our group does not support the further processing of this draft, and this is true for a number of reasons. I will try to be brief, because most of these reasons have already been dealt with in the past in connection with every possible draft of the Centre Party in this Chamber. It is, of course, right that, in one part, this bill covers the draft of the Social Democratic Party, which was supported here two weeks ago at first reading. Indeed, we consider this part to be reasonable. If someone has acquired citizenship because of the country's fingertips and the wrong is a formal basis, not a substantive one, then it is necessary to try to resolve these situations in favour of the person. On this road, we will try to move forward with the draft that has already been dealt with and with the proposals of the Ministry of the Interior. However, as far as these claims are concerned, as if Estonia were breaking any international principles, I once again assure you that this is not the case. The decrease in the number of persons without nationality has been impressive over the years. While there were 174000 persons in Estonia in 2001, this figure fell below 100000 in the last year. We have actually done a good job on integration. Now about conventions to which Estonia has not joined. Yes, the merger has been considered. Why hasn't it been done? The conclusion has been that persons of undetermined nationality living in Estonia are still guaranteed the rights that the conventions provide for. This is not about any social discrimination. Some of the proposals have been made in the past, such as the proposal to give people aged 65 and over such an advantage as to free them from language examinations. But I will repeat what has been said before: you see, these 65-year-olds were 45 years old 20 years ago and they will not lose any important social rights, even if they are not able to pass the exam they have not wanted to pass in previous decades. We have also stayed in this Chamber in order to give children citizenship without a request. The question here is only a very small nuance: is there such an application for parents or can the child later, growing up, make its own choice? We simply support the principle of informed choice and that is it. Here, too, I see no discrimination. As regards the examination of the knowledge of the Constitution and the Citizenship Act in the working languages of the Council of Europe, this is a completely absurd proposal, which also means the introduction of a sneaking Russian language into Estonia's domestic business. If a person has been able to pass the language examination, he must also be able to pass the examination of knowledge of the Constitution and Citizenship Act in Estonian. In addition, it seems to me that there is some confusion about the principle of legal clarity. When I asked the rapporteur a question, which is the difference between the working languages and the official languages of the Council of Europe, I did not get a clear answer. I have come to the conclusion that you mean that official languages are just like working languages, which is a logical conclusion. Here comes the principle of six languages, which is quite strange. But it doesn't exactly follow from here. You specifically emphasised that working languages are Italian, German and Russian. Are English and French out of the picture? But maybe it doesn't matter that much because, I repeat, taking a citizenship exam in six languages is inherently absurd. We wish to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U57	Thank you. I would like to ask Evgeny Ossinovski as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 165 contains substantial improvements to the current Citizenship Act. Recent integration monitoring also shows that a significant proportion of young people born in Estonia do not have Estonian citizenship. Among the 15 to 19-year-olds, nearly one fifth of young people have citizenship in another country, not Estonia, and 12% of them are Russian citizens. So there's a problem anyway. This phenomenon has also been hoped for from Mr Herkel's presentation that the current law deals with young people so that there is no growth of non-citizens and that everyone who is born and raised in Estonia would become an Estonian citizen, but this objective has not been achieved. Mr Herkel did not mention that despite the positive news that last year the number of non-citizens fell below 100,000, the number of Russian citizens in Estonia at the same time exceeded the number of non-citizens, i.e. the number of Russian citizens now exceeds 100,000. That is why the Social Democrats certainly welcome the wider debate on our citizenship policy and do not support the ideological-dogmatic approach of the current government union programme, so that citizenship policy is not changed at any cost. Social circumstances are changing, and legislation must accompany them. We have also taken initiatives ourselves to liberalise citizenship policy in a reasonable way and, in any case, we support a substantive debate on this issue. Looking at this specific draft, it must be acknowledged, however, that a number of its important points are poorly thought out and poorly formulated. I would like to mention two aspects. First of all, I'm talking about what we've been talking about here. Indeed, the draft allows an examination of the knowledge of the Constitution and the Citizenship Act in the working languages of the Council of Europe in addition to the Estonian language. Despite the author's explanations in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the draft explanatory memorandum and here today, we are confident that this would entail unreasonable costs for the state, because the state should ensure the existence of examination materials and also the adoption of examinations in Russian, English, German, French and Italian. Even if the Italians who want Estonian citizenship are very few, these materials should be available in that language. There's no way that's practical. The initiator's representative, Yana Toom, could not justify this. The real desire is, of course, that the test be carried out in Russian in addition to the Estonian language. In that case, we believe that this should also be the case with the draft. Trying to hide Russian in the shadow of the working languages of the Council of Europe is incomprehensible to me, to say the least. The second and most important aspect is that the initiator of the bill wishes to include § 351 in the Citizenship Act, which allows persons born in Estonia whose parent is a non-citizen resident permanently in Estonia and the other citizen of another state to acquire citizenship at birth. I would point out that, according to the explanations given by the initiator in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also today, this is intended to create a new form of citizenship. If citizenship can now be acquired either by birth or by naturalisation, according to the initiators, the citizenship covered by § 351 would not be either one or the other, but a separate category of citizenship at birth. In my opinion, there is no justification for creating such a new category, as well as any content. If you look at the text of the draft, it is clear that in order to obtain this new citizenship, which is at birth, parents will still have to submit an application which does not have to be applied to citizenship acquired by birth. Therefore, it is essentially a procedure similar to that described in section 13 (4) of the Citizenship Act, i.e. simplified naturalisation. I could not understand Yana Toom's explanation that the naturalization of a two-week-old child is not possible if her parents have different citizenship status, while two non-citizens have two-week-old children. Essentially, in my opinion...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U59	Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U60	Yes, three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U61	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U62	Basically, it wants to complement the simplified naturalisation regime so that not only the children of two non-citizens, but also those whose parent is a citizen of another country, are covered by it. Why the initiator did not want to put these provisions under a simplified section of naturalisation is completely incomprehensible. It is also not clear from the explanatory memorandum to the draft, rather the contrary, it speaks of three different situations in different places. Firstly, children born in Estonia, 'whose parents are persons who have been recognised as stateless persons', which means both parents are stateless and they are already talking about people covered by the regulation of simplified naturalization. Secondly, there is talk of the expansion of this bill to 'children born here in Estonia with long-term residence permits'. There is nothing to be said about the citizenship of the parents. According to this, both parents may also be Russian citizens, for example, but their children would still be Estonian citizens after birth. Thirdly, the draft states that, under the new simplified procedure, citizenship will be granted to a child born in Estonia who has at least one parent who is stateless and who lives in Estonia with long-term resident status. This means that a stateless parent must live in Estonia, but another parent who is a citizen of another country may never have lived in Estonia. There is also the fourth option, which is probably the most reasonable, although I am not sure whether this was the intention of the initiator: if both parents have lived in Estonia for a long time, one is a stateless person and the other is a citizen of another country, then their children born in Estonia would be granted citizenship under a simplified procedure. Unfortunately, it is not possible to understand what was the specific objective of this part of the draft. The initiators have also failed to explain this to me. These are certainly serious shortcomings. At the same time, the work of the Riigikogu is by its very nature collective. The Group of the Social Democratic Party is willing to put it under its shoulders in order to correct this draft law in the course of further proceedings. There are certainly points in this draft that we support and points that we believe deserve serious discussion. That is why we support the completion of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U63	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U64	Good manager! For starters, like Andres Herkel, I say that our party does not support this bill. I will be very brief and concrete. We all know how quickly things change in today's world. When I asked how vulnerable Estonia is in its language space, because, as we know, there is no other Estonia, this is only one, I meant precisely that things that change very quickly in the world may, in the light of such laws, lead to Estonian being one of many of the languages spoken in Estonia, like the language of the Retoromaan in Switzerland, which is some sort of archaeological phenomenon. But speaking very simply, there was one point that affected people over 65 years of age. The real question is that we want people living in Estonia who understand what is happening in Estonia. If we don't give them the keys for that, then older than 65 years of age (and, as we know, life expectancy is increasing all the time) will form an extremely manipulative mass. Let me give you an example. The great nations have a completely different backbone, a completely different identity than the small nations, there is nothing to do here. A very good example is Belgium, which is bilingual for historical reasons, for centuries. There are flutes who speak Flemish, French, German and English, and vallons who speak French only, only watch French television and read French only. The only difference is that French television does not counter-propaganda against the Belgian State, which is that these people will receive adequate information about what is happening in the Belgian State. Finally. We, who are professionals in this profession, should also perceive the'second and third moves' that are related to one law or another. Has this law not been coded for a certain phenomenon in the context of local elections for the Central Party whose support has begun to decline? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U65	Thank you. I would like to ask for a chair of speech as a representative of the Group of the Central Party of Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U66	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, If you sum up what has been said here, at least since 1999, in my memory over the years, then the demeanor of our conversation could be this: 'You pretend to believe what you're saying and hope that I believe you're genuinely doing it. ' I cannot believe that the party that opposes the changes is sincere. It is not at all that some colleagues look behind their backs before asking a question to see if these people with a camera are standing on the balcony, whether it is worth asking or not. If they're standing, it's worth it, very good! The camera's already gone. They went to the hallway to film the interview. The subject is actually educational and humane, but it is always a policy. I may be wrong, but it seems to me that I am the only one in this collective who has taught Estonian to foreigners for many years. I have a great experience in this field. A lot of interesting things happened during the years that I was actively working in this area. For example, in 1992, 1993 and 1994, almost every day in Ida-Virumaa, there was a piquet, mileage, or demonstration. This active force, those who participated in it, was always retired. The then president of the Narva Council, Anatoly Paal, came to the language centre and asked if it would be possible to organise courses so that this active part of pensioners would pass the citizenship exam and one reason for participating in the piques would be lost. We said there wasn't really a right, but you can try. The city allocated a huge sum for that time - 36000 kroons. We announced that there would be free training. Some 5,000 pensioners from Narva took part. After about a month or a month and a half citizenship exams began. They were completely different exams than they are now. Thanks to this program, approximately 3,000 people were granted citizenship in Narva. Those days are over. The people who passed these exams are all over 80 when they're still alive. This exam had one page with 19 questions and answers. Man had to say, 'My name is', 'I worked', 'I live', 'I am'. These are the same famous 19 questions that were asked about in Tallinn and other places, but this was our specifics. When I worked with these older people, I realized where there was a limit between possible and impossible. I overheard a very funny conversation once. Two retired aunts talked to each other and one told the other in Russian, of course: 'Hey, I learned how to say 'I worked' in Estonian. '''What are you doing now? How? ' 'Hey, it's so easy. Remember: I worked for Tjotja Zina. " That's how they learned the language. Why am I telling you this? We have constant discussions on what is original, whether language or mentality. The thing is, when these courses were over, the exams were accepted and people got the chance... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U67	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U68	... to apply for and obtain citizenship, then they began to come back to us massively. One aunt came in, brought the list, and said that their group, 20 people, wanted to continue in full. It was impossible to explain to them what we did and how different language learning was from what we did with them at the time. I think this year written in the Citizenship Act, that 1930, is a disgrace. This is a disgrace to the Riigikogu and the government of the Republic of Estonia. A further study was carried out in the late 1990s, which revealed that even after the age of 50 people begin to be demented. I understood your reaction, some of your questions concerning, for example, six official languages, that there is reason to believe that dementia begins much earlier than at 65 or 50 years of age. There's nothing we can do about it, it's not technically possible. It is not possible to teach a person who is over 65 years old, perhaps even older. The fact that it's written in the Citizenship Act in 1930 is a huge shame for all of us. Think about it! I didn't ask my colleague Korobenik in vain what the difference is between an 81- and an 82-year-old. There is no difference between learning Estonian and learning Estonian. I understand that it is difficult for you kids to accept something, in other places there may be some argument. But what concerns the 1930s is simply impossible. I was looking at the old verbograms yesterday and finishing my speech with what I ended up with in 1999 with an analogous speech. I hope your parents are alive. I wish them health! If they're alive, they're already very high in age, seventy or eighty. Imagine that they have a wish. For example, they want to be citizens of the country where they live, where they paid taxes and worked, but that desire cannot be fulfilled. It kills, it kills a little way. I hope that we will continue to deal with the bill and at least delete it from the Citizenship Act of 1930. The Centre Party Group, of course, supports this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-03_U69	Thank you very much. The negotiations are closed. Since the proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading, we must vote on it. We're going to get it ready. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the leading committee 165 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu, 34 against, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal has been supported and draft 165 has been rejected at first reading. Closure of the sitting at 11.06.
