ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the third Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. There are no requests. Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Heili Tõnisson, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates seven draft laws and submits one draft decision of the Riigikogu. All of these relate to next year's state budget. First, the draft State Budget Act 2013. The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary in Estonia and the law on the salaries of senior civil servants. The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on Courts. The Government of the Republic is represented by Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice in the Riigikogu when the bill is being processed. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft. Sixth, the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts in the Riigikogu when the bill is being processed. Seventh, the draft law amending the state fee law. Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the bill in the Riigikogu. Eighthly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Investment Bank. The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U3	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted eight drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! On the basis of § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the Prime Minister wishes to make a political statement lasting up to 20 minutes. On the basis of our rules of procedure and rules of procedure, the Board of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister agreed that no questions will be asked to the rapporteur. After the application, negotiations will be opened, during which political group representatives may speak. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The government has just handed you the draft State Budget Act 2013. This time I will begin by quoting the budget from a former statesman: 'In economic policy, the Government of the Republic wants to try to ease the current heavy tax burden. As the budgetary balance is a precondition for our economic development, a solid state's cost-saving policy must be implemented in order to achieve the above-mentioned objective. .. The tax system must be simplified. .. The repetition and development of the network of roads, railways and waterways of transit routes is considered by the Government of the Republic to be a major issue of state life in the current economic circumstances. .. The revision and reorganisation of the network of secondary schools must be continued by collapsing and closing, where necessary and possible, individual classes and schools. " Those words sounded more than 86 years ago from this very Riigikogu speaker on July 30, 1926. The speaker was Jaan Diamond, then the State Elder, whose 140th anniversary we celebrated this Monday. So the issues we are talking about today were important to our country over 80 years ago. The Estonian economy has adapted well in recent years. When we came out of the crisis, we were among the fastest in Europe. Estonia's economic growth last year was the fastest in Europe, even 8.3%. The increase in exports of goods and services was the best in Europe, the fall in unemployment as well. Wages and pensions rose. Our people's lives are increasing. The structure of our economy is much stronger and more resilient than in times of economic boom. The stability of the Estonian economic environment and the investments that accompany it will enable the state budget to be increased next year. The nature of the budget for next year has been very well hit by the Estonian Päevaleht, whose editorial I quote: '... it must be understood that we are still paying off the extraordinary unforeseen costs and losses caused by the crisis. Figuratively speaking, water was squeezed out of the stone because both disposable incomes and stocks were used. We have to deal with exactly what we have. It is all the more so that looking at southern Europe and noticing uncertainty elsewhere in Europe is not worth living at the expense of the future. The budget still depends on crises, both past and perhaps future. ' The resolution of the euro area crisis has taken longer than anyone would have expected, or even less wanted. But our joint efforts to achieve this have not diminished. The European Stability Mechanism will be operational at the beginning of next week. Three weeks ago, the European Central Bank announced its readiness to launch so-called monetary policy outright transactions, which have already helped to calm the financial markets. Three programme countries have made great progress, some more, some more modest. The Force is gathering a discussion on the future of the European Union. I am sure that we will be able to bring about the changes with our equally thoughtful partners, so that the European Union can move forward as one and stronger than before. Also when planning the budget for next year, the government has taken into account both the effects of the global financial crisis and the certainty that it cannot live at the expense of the future. In the state budget for the coming year, the structural surplus of the government sector is planned to be 0.1% of GDP. In nominal terms, the budget is planned with a deficit of 0.7%. From the following year, according to the budgetary strategy, the government plans a permanent nominal surplus. The budget revenue for next year is planned at EUR 7.5 billion, with expenditures of EUR 7.7 billion. Compared to 2012, costs increase by 1.1%. The debt burden of Estonian government remains the lowest in Europe. According to the government's proposal, the wage fund in the public sector will increase by 4.4%. This will enable ministries to raise wages, particularly where the need is greatest. Among others, the salaries of teachers, health professionals, cultural workers and members of the Defence Forces rise. The reduction in the unemployment insurance rate from 4.2% to 3% also leaves more money to people. The planned change will have a positive effect on all working people, with about 180 extra euros per year in families with two parents earning average wages. Next year, family benefits will increase by nearly EUR 5 million, or 5%. A large part of this additional money goes to the needs-based reform of child benefits aimed at doubling the benefits for children living in the families most in need in two years. The current family allowances are not taken away from or reduced by anyone. The grant paid for the birth of triples is increased to more than three times the amount of EUR 3000. In addition, paid paternity leave shall be restored. Our country's future depends first and foremost on how well our children are educated. In investing in education, we are among the first five in Europe. Teachers' wages increase on average by 11% due to the state's contribution and the optimisation of the education sector's resources. The most important reforms of next year will be education reforms. The budget takes into account higher education reform, including needs-based learning grants. The school network will continue to be organised next year. Basic school stays close to home. New gymnasium buildings are available at the Nõo Reaalgümnaasium, Viljandi Gymnasium, Läänemaa Ühismnasium and Jõgevamaa Gymnasium. The average salary of cultural workers will rise by 5% next year. The 2013 budget will also increase the resources of the Cultural Endowment of Estonia, which will be allocated to the financing of cultural projects. Compared to 2012, the amount of money allocated to cultural projects will increase by 5.2%. If pensions rose 4.4% this year, next year we plan to increase pensions by 5%. On average, the pensioner will receive 190 euros more next year. Unemployment benefit will increase to half the minimum wage rate, i.e. from the current 65 euros to 145 euros per month. It is important, as Jaan Diamond, the Head of State quoted earlier, to re-establish and develop the network of roads, railways and waterways. To ensure safe and efficient traffic, the state invests around €160 million in roads. The biggest investments will be next year on the main highway of Tallinn, Tartu, Luhamaa, Aruvalla-Kose, a four-line section of the road of 13.4 km, a four-line section of Väo-Sau and Tallinna-Narva road, construction of Väo-Maardu road. The western bypass of Tartu is intended to be fully resolved as a four-line first-class road that will continue to serve both local and transit traffic. In addition, Swan intersection and Jõhvi and Ülemiste traffic junction are invested. Local roads are planned to be stored at 29,2 million euros in the 2013 state budget, which is 11,1 million euros more than this year. In the environmental field, the focus will be on investments for modern water supply and clean drinking water, which will amount to nearly EUR 100 million in 2013. Next year, 40 water management projects will be completed to provide 170000 people with high-quality drinking water and modern water supply. In agriculture, we support efficient production. In 2013, the budget for the payment of exceptional additional agricultural direct payments is set at EUR 24.3 million. We invest 2% of GDP in national defence. Among other things, this 2% will build 1,200 new barracks by the end of 2014, which means that by the end of 2014, all defence forces will receive modern living and training conditions. The personnel costs of the Defence Forces will restore pre-crisis levels. The Ministry of the Interior will raise wages next year, especially for people who are directly involved in security. It will also increase the capacity of the state to face serious hidden and organised crime. Resources will be increased to reduce and prevent accidents. In 2013 the promotion of the Asian direction will be a priority for the development of the Network of Foreign Representations. The Estonian embassy will be opened in New Delhi and the embassy will work in the new building in Beijing. Honourable Riigikogu! The newly transferred budget is optimistic, but planned responsibly and in view of the state's possibilities. Despite the fact that we are doing quite well in comparison with many others, uncertainty in the global economy does not allow for a faster increase in public expenditure. Conservative fiscal policy has been a success for Estonia so far and will also ensure our competitiveness in rapidly changing economic conditions. If we continue with conservative fiscal policies, our economy will be credible. It is trustworthiness that brings direct foreign investment to our country, creates new jobs and helps to grow our economy. Estonian finances continue to be in order. By sticking to the current principles, we will put the budget in a sustainable surplus by 2014. I call on you to support the budget proposed by the government and I wish you a constructive debate. Thank you and the strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U6	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U7	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The 2013 state budget has been handed over to the Riigikogu and it is only now that the members of the opposition will be able to examine this large document more seriously. So far, we have had to extract information from the statements made by ministers. But as folk wisdom says, who's gonna raise the dog's tail if not the dog himself? Already several autumns, I have had the hope, after the press releases by ministers, that now the state budget has finally been made, which takes into account the needs of the Estonian people. However, after the transfer of the budget to the Riigikogu and more thoroughly acquainted with it, I have been disappointed because, unfortunately, it has always become clear that everything that has been written in press releases has only been a beautiful slogan. The government decided to increase the payroll fund for government areas by 4,4% in the state budget next year. Initially, this seems to be a positive news, but if I take aside the state budget from the Ministry of Finance's economic forecast, where consumer prices for 2012 are projected to rise by 3.9%, then questions will inevitably arise. Is this really a promised wage increase or rather a retention of people's purchasing power? Of course, the wage increase foreseen in the state budget can be summed up by saying that it will still help, but it will not redeem the cuts in previous years. Specialists in a large number of sectors that are important to the country are shamefully undervalued. Teachers have asked for a 20% increase in wages, which would increase the cost of the education sector by EUR 34 million. The minimum wage for teachers will be increased by 11%, but most of this money will come, as has been the case recently, by redeploying internal resources. To put it in rural languages, teachers will be deprived of extra fees and school maintenance costs will be reduced. As a result, the remuneration received by the average teacher's bank account will increase by around 6 euros. This, however, is certainly not what teachers would like. For some reason, the current government coalition does not consider investing money in man, but only concrete. It's not the iPad alone that teaches children, it's the teacher standing in front of the class. The last increase in teachers' salaries took place in 2008. It's been five years. I believe that the Prime Minister also goes to the store and has seen what has happened during this period at prices: prices have risen. Compared to January 2010, food products alone have increased by 20.2% and housing costs by 21.1%. In this light, the 20% wage increase requirement for teachers is perfectly understandable. Price increases have affected all people, but especially rescuers, police officers, border guards, teachers, medical workers and cultural workers who are paid by the state. If the private sector has raised wages as far as possible, the country has frozen wages in these vital areas and in some cases even cut wages. It's not always about pay, it's about attitude. On 1 October, Estonian health professionals will start a strike with the aim of improving the health system. They were struck by the attitude of the Ministry of Social Affairs, as if health problems were not of national importance. You don't want to deal with these problems. Despite the efforts of doctors, nurses and carers to sit at a common table with the Minister of Social Affairs and find a solution to discourage medical workers from fleeing abroad, the Minister of Social Affairs is also of the opinion that there is no collective agreement or wage negotiation with his health workers. 2013 will bring a painful blow to the people of Estonia, as electricity will be more expensive. The government only denies hands. However, two thirds of people's electricity bill is currently under state control. The new price lists of Eesti Energia published yesterday give a clearer picture of the price of electricity, about what awaits us as consumers from the new year. At present, in a closed electricity market, the core electricity tariff is 3.15 cents per kilowatt hour. If you look at the price packages for the open market of Eesti Energia, the price of electricity in the shortest fixed price contract is 4.99 cents per kilowatt-hour. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U8	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U9	The increase is therefore 58%. We add an increase in the price of Elering's online services, which is 13.3%. We will see that next year, households will be faced with an electricity bill of about 20% higher. Let us not forget that electricity costs not only for households but also for small businesses, because so far, only large companies that consume more than 2 gigawatt-hours of electricity in one place of consumption have purchased electricity on the open market. The increase in electricity prices also means that production is rising, that is to say, an additional hit on the wallet. Against this background, the 5% increase in pension, from which the current inflation rate of 3.9% has to be deducted, and the increase in electricity prices of 20% in the coming year, is really a joke. Estonian pensions do not guarantee our grandparents and parents a decent life. There is room for improvement in this budget for land and weather. I hope that the state budget will be dealt with constructively in this Chamber. A small budget deficit and participation in the European Stability Mechanism will benefit the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, who will receive the recognition and approval of European colleagues. But why don't we do it over a long time this year so that the entire people of Estonia can benefit from the budget? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U10	Thank you. I ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Kaia Iva! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, When we analysed in the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica, how our party's priorities are reflected in the 2013 state budget, a good colleague said that this budget could be entitled 'Too good to be true'. True, but with the knowledge that the public purse does not yet provide sufficient financial cover for several points of pain. Over the years, however, revenue growth gives the country an opportunity to channel additional money to overcome bottlenecks in several areas. The clear first option here is to contribute to people: the wages of workers are rising and, more broadly, the income of families is increasing. Our security will be better protected, both mentally and physically, because more wages can be paid to teachers, rescuers, policemen, and defence forces. The following year, significant positive developments will take place in the field of education: the teacher's average wage will rise to EUR 860 and the teacher's minimum wage will increase from EUR 608 to EUR 715. I would like to say here that the previous speaker claims that this is 11%, in fact the minimum wage will increase by 18%. On 1 September, the reform of higher education will take place free of charge, and any capable and willing young person will be able to study without tuition fees. The EUR 3.6 million planned for next year's budget will give confidence that the need-based education support system that will be implemented in Estonia for the first time will make higher education available to the least prosperous young people. For the IRL, it is very important that solidarity between generations is reflected in the real growth of income for each generation in the 2013 budget. In addition to the growth of the employees' payroll, the growth of family benefits is important. Two aspects are important to us here. In addition to the needs-based benefits, child support for all children from the third child of the family will increase and additional child benefits will no longer be taken into account in the calculation of income support, which means that the extra money is real and a steady increase in the income of the family. A 5% increase in pensions is important for older people in the family. A sign of fairness is a new year's parental pension, when the pension supplement will also be paid for raising children born in a re-independence country. Thus, we value the important work of raising all children. It is also important for the contractor that a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions brings a little more money to the bank account on each payday. An important message for families is that the abolition of the tax on homeland will leave some 13 million euros in the hands of homeowners and the insulation of apartment buildings will be supported through KredEx with 10 million euros. This means further savings from heat costs that would grow without insulation. Homes of child-rich families will be helped to renew for 2.5 million euros. For the first time in Estonia, we were able to pay the maximum amount of agricultural subsidies in 2008. Next year, we'll be able to keep the same line. At this point, I would like to address Järvamaa's fine potato grower, Miku farm's master Aivo Rebas, who said yesterday through national broadcasting: 'Of course he is worried, because the Estonian state is one that absolutely does not support its farmer. " Fortunately, that statement is not correct. Perhaps repeating the fact that the Estonian state supports its farmers will also help other farmers. The single area payment to be paid from the European Union budget is more than EUR 100 million in 2013. Its volume will increase by 10% compared to this year. At the same time, we will ensure that farmers receive 24.3 million euros of additional national direct payments from the taxpayers' money in Estonia in order to level out the unequal direct payments of the European Union. In addition, the Estonian state guarantees the full co-financing of the rural development plan and European Fisheries Fund grants by the state, which may cost 33.6 million euros. The total volume of these funds in Estonia in 2013 is more than 153 million euros. You can therefore be sure that the Estonian state is supporting its farmers now and will continue to do so. The 2013 budget has increased the amount allocated to other areas of relevance to the IRL. These are crime prevention, the fight against serious covert crime, the strengthening of life-saving capabilities and the national programme to strengthen upper secondary schools. The money for repairing local roads will also increase by 60%. However, it should be noted that the 2013 budget, which was said to be too good to be true, is certainly not too good. The needs and expectations of the budget will also be far greater next year than the financial opportunities of the country. The draft budget is realistic, taking into account the balance between revenue and expenditure, which is a prerequisite for sustainable finance and economic growth, as the state and families can only be improved on the basis of growth. I hope that the budgetary procedure in the Riigikogu will be thorough and constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U12	Thank you. I ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Mr. Prime Minister! Life in the Republic of Estonia becomes more need-based from day to day. It is also the strongest keyword for this budget, the word said here today and will be heard for several months to come. Looking at the vivid communication that preceded the presentation of the state budget, I wondered where this necessity would come from. I mean, there aren't a lot of options, but there is a need. The need is clear, it is written on the calendar of the 2013 elections. Who then doesn't want to be popular and show themselves more popular on a need-based basis than might be appropriate! One example is family benefits, which have been called reform on an ad hoc basis. The desire to help families with poor incomes on a larger scale is certainly worth supporting, but declare it in such a way that mothers and fathers are starting to draw different conclusions, is like evil. It is particularly important to know that a number of provisions will only enter into force in 2015. Having made even more exciting proposals, which will enter into force from 2025! The need for teachers is determined by an 11% wage increase. I was wondering who the teacher would be able to ask for help if this 11% was not reflected in his pocket. Is he going to ask Aaviksoo or the mayor whose budget is lost for building schools and who has to carry out the long-term commitments previously undertaken, or is he going to ask the headmaster? What are the chances of this teacher if all three point fingers at each other and say that they are not guilty? On a need-based basis, the level wages of policemen and rescuers were reduced by 8%. Now all you're suggesting is a restoration of a former grade wage. Is that about 4% on a need-based basis? The same applies to the wages of social workers or cultural workers. As a non-need-based propaganda, what can be taken from the comparison of the salaries of our health care workers with the other wages paid in Estonia? Please remind the Minister and others that Estonia is a member of the European Union and has been a member of the European Union for years! In this Union, the workforce is moving freely. Our doctors and nurses are not faced with a choice of whether to work in an Estonian hospital or as an analyst in an Estonian bank. Their choice is quite different: either to work as a doctor or a nurse here or elsewhere. Propaganda also works elsewhere. A person who possesses arithmetic can calculate that the possible pension increase will be 6.36% next year. You beat the drum and say the government raises the pension by 5%. Finally, I will talk about fresh emotions this morning. Unfortunately, fiscal policy does not take account of the opening up of the electricity market for a cent. The fact that Minister Parts is surprised by the new prices of Eesti Energia is still a real surprise. It's a completely need-based surprise, or faked posture, otherwise he should be accused of total incompetence. I want to finish as always on a positive note. As an employer of the government, I believe that the Riigikogu must commend the government for not raising its salary. That's right, because they don't deserve it. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U14	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have completed the processing of the Prime Minister's political statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U15	Good Riigikogu! Let's go to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questions of the members of the Riigikogu to Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder and the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Now we're going to do a presence check. 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U16	The first item is the presentation on the implementation of developments in legal policies. The rapporteur is Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice. Before the proceedings begin, let me briefly introduce to you the procedure resulting from § 155 of our lovely Home and Working Procedures Act. First of all, the Minister of Justice is Kristen Michal's presentation, which lasts up to 30 minutes. After that, there's a round of questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Subsequent negotiations involving political group representatives with speeches. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. I ask the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Justice ministers have been performing before the Riigikogu for years in order to report on the developments in criminal policy. It has been a valuable platform on which the Riigikogu has been able to hold a political debate on an important subject for the people. Criminal policy and its developments are undoubtedly an extremely important part of legislation, but only one part. This means that much of our legal order has not been dealt with in a comprehensive manner before Parliament. This gap has needed to be filled, and I am now doing so, at the request of the previous Riigikogu. Today is the first time the Minister of Justice has made a presentation on the implementation of developments in legal policy. We could discuss, in hindsight, that perhaps we would have needed a discussion on developments in legal policy earlier: when we were preparing to join the European Union and when a large part of European Union law was transposed into our legal order at once, or even earlier, in the last century, when the basic laws were established after the restoration of statehood. But as we well remember and understand, at that time we were limited by the desire to change quickly and by the growth difficulties of a young country. In any case, I am very pleased that the previous composition of the Riigikogu approved this basic decision on legal policy as its last act. It is as if he has confirmed that the storm and urge of the transition age are over and that we need to adopt a knowledge-based and inclusive perspective in policy making. This is important for our citizens, businesses and partners, because it increases the legitimacy of policy making, and it is important for Estonia's competitiveness. This was the political will of the previous formation, accompanied by the honorable task of controlling its implementation. Political support and demand, especially at the level of members of the Riigikogu, are crucial to developments and their implementation. The OECD and European Union recommendations have highlighted, as a stand-alone value, the agreement on legal policy principles at the highest political level, because without it officials and partners will not feel motivated to make an effort. Written and politically supported developments are a single document which, figuratively speaking, points in the right direction for the legislator. Developments give us a high-quality standard of regulation, which so far needed to be derived from many laws and administrative practices. The standard was there by default, it was like it was, but it wasn't. We did not have a single and clear document. We now have it and we can build a common understanding and consensus around it. Developments in legal policy include issues whose importance for achieving a competitive regulatory environment has been recognised by the OECD and the European Union. Extensive inclusion, impact-awareness and consideration of legislation and practice analysis, these are keywords without which today's legislation cannot be imagined. In the European Union, we are no longer talking about better regulation, but about smart regulation. More and more attention will be paid to how the content of the legislation develops. The focus will be on the structure of the legislative process, which will help to create high-quality content. Developments in legal policy are also aimed at designing smart regulation. For the government, this year is the first year of implementation of developments. As the year is not over, I will focus mainly on describing the foundations and the situation that have been set up to implement developments. It is too early to point out the changes in legislation by means of concrete examples. This is what I would like to do in the following reviews. The implementation of developments requires fundamental changes from the government to the legislative process. This overall direction indicator cannot be applied automatically and by itself. This requires cultural change, willingness and a desire to do things differently and, of course, better than before. It also requires us to develop policy analysis, communication with partners and the ability to set standards. For this reason, in 2011 and 2012, the government has taken weighty decisions to introduce good lawmaking principles in the legislative organisation: a code of good lawmaking and regulation, with a focus on good lawmaking, a renewed good practice of inclusion, and an impact assessment methodology is currently under discussion in the government. The implementation contained in these documents will improve the quality of legislation. However, it should not be forgotten that the mere acceptance of the principles of good lawmaking means nothing more than a good basis. We expect the greatest change in thinking. Regrettably, there is a widespread perception that legislative intervention is not the only way to unravel the hub. Often, changing legislation is indeed the best way to overcome the problem, but often it is not the only way. According to the principles of good lawmaking, the legislative cycle mostly starts with the preparation of an intention to develop. It is then that the legislator must analyse the problem and its options. The chosen solution may not always consist of a new law or a law amending the law. Rather, it may be about better implementation of legislation, changing or harmonising administrative practices, resolving financing issues or something else. To this day, however, people are being pushed too lightly to change the law. This is, in the eyes of the politician and the official, a clear and understandable way of showing that the matter is being dealt with. The public tends to see and believe the alleged loopholes in the law rather than the failure to implement the law. The blame here isn't outlawed by the officials themselves, who sometimes justify their failure to comply with the law. However, the so-called "glory bill" which clarifies the existing legal order in a uniform way may not solve the problem. For example, if the law already provides for a general obligation, how can it help to resolve the problem by describing the situation more accurately by means of a number of examples? This is likely to lead to more and more similar legislative changes, justified by the argument that the previous clarification was not sufficiently precise. However, if we develop legislation to the smallest level of detail, we will create new restrictions that prevent the laws from being applied rationally and purposefully. It is too widespread to think that changing the law is always the best solution. I hope and believe that the application of the principles of good regulation will lead to a significant change of direction in the coming years. As the impact of the changes to the legislative process resulting from the principles of good lawmaking is very fundamental, the government decided to introduce a transitional period to adapt to innovation. This will require new requirements to be implemented in 2012 in at least a quarter and in 2013 in at least half of the drafts and in 2014 already in all government legislative initiatives. On the one hand, a transitional period is needed to improve skills. According to the current legislative arrangements, the intention to develop had to be drawn up only in the case of the creation of a new legal institute or new law, and the requirements for the intention to develop were very general. As a result, new skills have to be taught separately. In the coming years, more courses will be organised. On the other hand, it is not possible to implement such changes on a daily basis. There are so many drafts in the procedure that it makes no sense to reverse what has already been done in them. The scope of the proposed development has been significantly broadened. This is no longer an exception, but a rule that must precede any draft law that brings about significant changes. At this stage of the legislative process, consultations will be held both within the government and with stakeholders in order to find an appropriate policy-making approach. Such a procedure will be time-saving and will prevent situations where fundamental issues will only be debated once the draft, together with the explanatory memorandum, is ready. This is a major difference compared to the current legislative arrangements. Of course, you can be involved in the past, but in any case the public consultation must take place at the latest at the stage of drafting the planned development. So far, the intention to develop has been the starting point for the legislative process, rather in exceptional cases. The extent of the changes is illustrated by the fact that, while, for example, only four plans for development were coordinated throughout 2011, seven of these plans were submitted from 1 January to 30 August this year, and all ministries are likely to be able to present at least one this year. The experience gained by ministries will enable preparatory activities to move forward more quickly. On the other hand, general discussions tend to remain a superficial chat room that leads nowhere. Changes in the analysis of the impact of regulatory acts deserve special attention. The impact assessment system set up to implement developments aims to provide evidence for policy making and to ensure that all appropriate options can be considered to address the problem. In doing so, it is not necessary to analyse each and every impact with the greatest degree of detail, but also the impact assessment itself must be proportionate and resource-efficient. A materiality criterion has been developed to clarify what to analyse in greater depth and what not. Legislative proposals that concern either a large target group, address problems of high scale or frequency, or where there is a significant risk of undesirable effects, require a more thorough impact analysis. Further information and thought should also be provided by an innovative ex-post evaluation to verify whether or not the desired objectives have been achieved by the legislation created. It is true that, due to stricter requirements for impact analysis, costs will also increase somewhat. The Fund for Smart Decisions, set up at the State Chancellery with the support of the European Social Fund, will finance, inter alia, assessments and studies of the impact of draft laws for EUR 837000 until the end of 2013. However, the changes described above cannot be implemented without the people who carry them out and without the structures supporting the day-to-day work. Those developments set the objective of identifying a single unit in each ministry responsible for the legal quality of the drafts and of giving systematic attention to the officials responsible for preparing the legislation. The Ministry of Justice launched an analysis of the government's legislative procedure in spring. We want to clarify the ways in which the legislation is implemented and the way in which it is implemented in ministries, and to assess how the structures responsible for the legislation of ministries operate and whether it is necessary to harmonise them. Once we have completed the analysis at the end of the year, we will have to make choices on which questions and what implementation plan to proceed with. A number of solutions are under discussion which would help to organise government legislation more evenly and with a high quality. The more fragmented government regulation is, the more difficult it is to guarantee the quality of legislation. In view of the objective of comprehensive government governance, discussions take place, for example, on whether and in what form to consolidate the legislative plans of all ministries in a comprehensive review of the government's proposed legislation. I also expect the Riigikogu to take an active part in this matter, because when, in what extent and the quality of the draft laws will come into parliamentary proceedings is undoubtedly important for the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu. Greater emphasis on proper planning should be expressed, among other things, that the harmonisation of Estonian legislation with European Union law should not take place as a matter of urgency. If about half of the drafts harmonise Estonian law with European Union law, it is inappropriate to require that the draft be dealt with more quickly on the grounds that it is necessary to transpose European Union law. The objectives of these developments can only be achieved if more officials with in-depth legal knowledge, i.e. legal practitioners, are involved in the legislative process. In the above-mentioned analysis, it is also the one who is then the government's legislative lawyer, whose work is very much dependent on the quality of legislation. It's not that easy to answer that question. In the ministries, 626 legislative officials, or lawmakers, were in office this spring. The largest group of 388 people are those officials who write draft laws and draft regulations. There are far fewer law-makers who give these plans legal fine-tuning, i.e. guarantee the quality of the drafts, than 137. However, their tasks, their location in the structure, their legal education, as well as their remuneration, vary by institution. Our aim is to achieve a more coherent understanding of basic legislative issues. Then we will also be able to reduce the type of errors that characterize the current legislation: for example, the need for new regulation, the location and level, the overly detailed regulation of laws, the creation of unjustified exceptions to general law, etc. At the moment, it is a concern that it is not clear who to share information with and who to train. Differences are also not conducive to the rotation of legislative lawyers between authorities. Information technology development plays a key role in increasing legal awareness. At the beginning of the year, we made available the final judgments of the Supreme Court and the County and District Courts in the online publication of the revised State Gazette, we started publishing summaries of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Supreme Court, which were published so far in the paid information system Digesta. In this way, high-quality legal information can be accessed free of charge. The content of each Act is also published in the Official Journal of the State. All legal acts, summaries and legal news are easily accessible and can be ordered to your e-mail address using the My Country's Official Journal service. I encourage you to use all new services boldly! Translations of laws are also available in the updated State's Official Journal. Only acts published in Estonian in the Official Journal of the State can be used in official business, but we also need to be comprehensible and open to the outside world. The Coalition Agreement sets out the objective of translating Estonian laws into English. In particular, translations are intended for foreign investors and European Union partners. So far, more than 150 up-to-date complete texts have been translated into English from nearly 400 existing laws. By the end of 2012, more than half of the laws have been translated. By the end of 2014, all Estonian laws must be translated and translations kept up-to-date. In addition to the fact that from next year all local government units will have to publish their regulations together with the updated complete texts in the State Gazette, it is clear that it will be much easier for citizens to get a full picture of the Estonian legal system. Finally, briefly, what all the legislators have been looking forward to for years. At the end of the year, we will introduce a single search into all pending and processed drafts in the Official Journal, through which all stages of the procedure of draft laws or regulations with materials can be found, from the public consultation of the intention to draft the draft, to the publication of the legislation in the Official Journal. The information that so far had to be searched in several places is finally collected. This solution is also an internationally remarkable achievement. Finally, however, I come back to the principles of good lawmaking. If they are followed up and developed by legislative officials, the quality of legislation will also improve. The apparent development leap is not taking place on a daily basis, but some changes are already underway. The expectations are great. Both professional associations and civil society are closely monitoring the implementation of the principles of good lawmaking. I'm done. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U18	Thank you very much, Minister. You have a lot of questions. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U19	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Your report said that only texts published in the Estonian Official Journal can be used in official matters. That's right. We must also be understandable to the outside world and therefore we intend to translate Estonian laws into English. This is very nice, but do you not think that the laws should first and foremost be understandable to Estonians? Therefore, I ask: is it, and when is it going to be, that all our laws are translated into Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U20	Thank you. I will answer that question by saying that there is no such intention. We have no intention of translating Estonian laws into Russian. The working language of the Estonian state is Estonian. Translation of laws into English is based on the principle that one of the working languages of the European Union has been chosen, in which it is possible to introduce itself to the outside world. In all other cases, the English language is also used for legal aid on this principle. We are primarily based on the fact that Estonia's interest is to get investments here, which would result in more high-paid jobs and be able to pay people a higher salary. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U21	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The day before yesterday, the national issue of fundamental rights and freedoms in Estonia and the work of the Defence Police and Prosecutor's Office were discussed as a key issue in this Chamber. We learned that every other adult person in Estonia is entered in the criminal record. I started thinking that in my 43 years of work, I haven't worked as criminologically as what I see looking around here today. How do you comment on these two statements? Are we so unruly, or is our legal framework wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U23	Thank you. Where the good questioner has worked in the past and how criminogenic this company has been, I have no comment, it is the history writers to appreciate. But it has to be said that everything that concerns punishing people is being reviewed. The review of the Penal Code is underway. As I have said in public, if the legal coryphes arrive at a result in the search for balance, then with this result we will come to the public. It's under Jaan Sootak's leadership right now. We had the hope that already this year we could come to the public with a new approach to the Penal Code, but now it seems that the time when the first fruits could be shown here will be at the beginning of next year. The question of whether too many people have been punished in Estonia has also been pointed out by the President of the Supreme Court, who has said that it may not be quite reasonable if more than half of the working age population has been punished in one way or another. But on the other hand, when we look at the expectations of the public and the media, we see that every time someone does something criminal, there is a expectation that the punishment will be as harsh as possible. This balance is always, how to say, cognitive. Let me give you another example. Recently, there was an argument in the media about the number of prisoners in Estonia. The number of prisoners in Estonia is several times higher than in Scandinavia, but we still have a long way to go to safety. So only severe penalties or maximum levels of penalties do not guarantee security or overall compliance. Rather, here is a part of what we are talking about today: how to create laws so that we can understand these standards and practices unambiguously.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U24	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U25	Thank you. Dear waitress, Yesterday we had a draft law on student grants and student loans at first reading. This draft did not follow a number of good legislative practices that you talked about here, particularly with regard to impact assessments. Your signature coordination paper also drew attention to many of these shortcomings. You said that you would only coordinate the draft if the substantive comments were taken into account. However, the Ministry of Education did not take into account most of these substantive comments, but this draft passed through the government's coordination circle and has now reached the Riigikogu. What can be expected from the implementation of good legislative practice if the signature of the Minister for Justice does not count for much in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U26	Thank you. We don't have a contest in the government, of course, whose signature counts more. The government makes decisions in consensus, and the laws are still created in this Chamber, this House. After all, you are the ones who will decide what legislation will be. Nor is it unusual for a minister to disagree. This disagreement will then be added to the draft for the legislator, so that members of the Riigikogu can view and assess the depth of this disagreement. In my opinion, even compliance with the fundamental principle of good lawmaking may not mean so much that ministries are arguing with each other. This argument goes either way. What is important is that, before a legal act is created, it is clear whether this problem or a specific issue needs to be resolved by this law, by this specific act, and if it is to be resolved, so that the effects of this solution are assessed in order to know the intended purpose. Once the problem is solved, it must be followed by analysis. It's part of the whole chain. But I think it is up to you now to decide what will happen to this specific legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U27	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U28	Thank you. Dear Minister, In recent weeks, society has had a strong response to the inadequacy of judicial and law enforcement authorities in ensuring people's security. Unfortunately, the city of Türi has already been called the capital of a crook instead of the capital of flowers. Yesterday, the chief of police came to see the situation, and it seems to be calming the crowd. I think it's all been ridiculously late. I heard last week in the Estonian Radio studio that, in assessing the situation, Mr Küüt was clearly dissatisfied with our current penal policy, especially in the case of attacks against police officers. The Attorney General explained all of this with established criminal practice. Minister, do you agree with me if I say that the current situation is hurting the sense of justice of a very large number of people?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U29	Minister, good friend! Our sister company is in some ways a union of writers, because we both write, produce texts. 150,000 pages of legal texts have been produced in Europe. I don't know how much we've produced. Not only do we not produce texts, the Chronicle, Mr. Alex or anyone else will write that you will see that the Riigikogu did nothing again. Doesn't it seem to you that at some point the volume of our laws is already going to cross the boundaries of our minds, that we're going to get so far that you're going to write another law and then no one's going to read the previous ones? Don't you? How many more hundreds of laws would it take to get for Estonia, or would it be necessary to take down several hundred laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U30	Thank you. It's about the same question as "where there's a sad home" or "who pays for the trouble of a grandmother." It's very difficult to answer that, to be honest. Good lawmaking should strive for it (I think we should all do it) so that there are as many laws as necessary and as little as possible. There can be no purpose in over-regulating society. This is also what we have said in the principles of good lawmaking, that in each particular case it is necessary to look at whether this bottleneck needs to be overcome by law or other legislation or whether it is possible to solve this problem, starting with community level, cooperation between themselves and funding issues. You don't always have to solve everything by law. A little of this misconception also spreads that if the law amendment is in work, it will solve all the problems in Estonia. You don't really solve it. So my answer is, I'm sure you don't want to overdo the law. There are still free people living in society who are capable of regulating their own lives. That's what we should do.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U31	Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U32	Thank you. Good minister! The comprehension of the laws is a subject which has aroused passion in this Chamber and has also been discussed in committees. Once even a draft law was prepared to ensure that the laws were understood. In Switzerland, the Language Act provides that legislation must be drafted in a citizen-friendly language. How do you assess our legislation? How understandable are they, what is our legal language and what can we do in this area so that citizens do not move away from the country purely because the legislation cannot be understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U33	Thank you. Personally, I consider this issue to be very important. I think there's a lot to be done here. Uno Mereste fought in his day for the same purpose that there would be a law guaranteeing the comprehension of the law, or what was the name of the idea. I think it has to be dealt with in any case. Legal language must not only be a slang between lawyers and a 'high-pitched pilotage', of which a normal person cannot have any idea without the help of a lawyer. Absolutely not. I think that the Riigikogu has the same role: you will take the draft and ask what really means what is written here. I in the Ministry of Justice will certainly fight for this, and I know that there are colleagues who are also fighting for it. We must certainly continue to do so. The law must be simple, clear and understandable. This is the only way to ensure that people respect the state and the legal order.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U34	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U35	Thank you. Mr. Minister! In your presentation, my happy attention was drawn especially to the place where you talked about constantly improving the law. Indeed, there are often drafts that consist in amending one law or another, sometimes in very detailed terms. I got a little bit better in your response to Mr Gräzin about your thinking, but I will ask you again. Is it not the same reason that the laws are too detailed and that a large number of the details we tend to regulate at law level could, at the very least, be included in lower acts, if anywhere? What steps do you think should be taken, and is it time for us to move more boldly towards giving preference to ordinary law, broadening our options for consideration, trusting in precedents? Or is society not yet ready for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U36	Thank you. I think we're moving this way. Some good legislation also suggests that laws must be adopted in the future only if they are needed to solve some of the problems and these laws actually solve the problems. Later, it will be analysed whether they have worked exactly as expected. Laws must not be 'political labelling' on any subject. I am as convinced as you (I know it, having read your earlier texts) that civil society, where citizens themselves organise and regulate many things, is the model that Estonia should move towards. Estonia should not move towards a model of overregulation by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U37	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! During the days of legal scientists, it has often been said that we tend to change our laws very lightly. However, we have not been able to analyse with sufficient depth whether it is really necessary to amend the law to solve the problem, or whether it would be possible to solve the problem by amending or better implementing the sub-acts. I quite agree with that view. In your presentation, you specifically stressed the importance of analysing the effects of laws and of following-up. But have you also considered that perhaps, when a problem arises in society, an institution of some kind should analyse whether this is a problem at all and how this problem could be solved? What kind of institution could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U39	Thank you. After all, the principles of good lawmaking indicate that this institution, or, as an example, the Ministry whose competence lies in this matter, should first ask questions as to whether it is a problem at all, how far this problem is and how it is to be solved. That is the point of the first analysis of this intention and impact. It needs to be clarified who is affected by this problem, whether it needs to be resolved in the first place by some legislation, etc. Perhaps there is something else and there is no need for legislation or a legislative amendment. This is the substance and nature of the principles of good lawmaking and all good lawmaking. In this direction, I think, the Estonian state should move.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U40	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U41	Thank you. That is a very difficult question. On the 20th anniversary of the Constitution, I think that academic discussions on this subject are extremely appropriate. That is what we ourselves have declared in the coalition treaty and on behalf of the government. In addition, various events are planned for the 20th anniversary of the Constitution, including for the younger generation of lawyers, where the values of the Constitution are opened and reviewed in different forms. I think this debate is certainly appropriate. I do not support the amendment of the Constitution on an easy hand, but if it is necessary, we must definitely start with analysis and move on from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U42	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U43	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'll come back to those translations for a second, though. I understand the principles that you have declared concerning the official language and translation. But when we look at the real situation, we see that a large part of the Estonian population who daily deliver and operate here does not speak Estonian enough to read the laws in Estonian. Nor may they possess enough English to read the laws in English. At the same time, these people are exposed to the rest of society every day, for example in traffic. They should at least be aware of the changes made to the new traffic law so that they are not dangerous to all of us. Would it not be appropriate, however, to consider the formal translation of such important laws into Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U44	Thank you. As I said, there are reviews. After all, more important changes are reported both through brochures and through information channels. However, the laws in Estonia are in Estonian, in the official language. If you ask whether people receive advice and legal aid, I dare say that this year's Ministry of Justice budget had the largest amount of money available to increase the budget for free legal advice. This advice is intended specifically for vulnerable people and those who may have difficulties in understanding the law or who need initial assistance and do not want to pay for it immediately. This was the most increased amount in our budget in 2012. This amount will increase again in 2013. I have personally considered it important for people to be able to obtain free legal aid, especially for people who are underprivileged and for those who cannot immediately turn to a legal expert. So in any case, people are also taken care not to be left without legal advice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U45	Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Good colleagues, I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U46	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of Justice! I know where the Sad House is. It's in Rakvere, building 60 on Tallinn Street. It's a very good place to eat. I was a little embarrassed when I prepared today's performance because I wasn't very sure whether I should use the tear technique or do the puppet theater to somehow illustrate good lawmaking practice, or it would be better to do card tricks by borrowing cards from my benchmate Sven Sester, who, by the way, since yesterday is the master of Europe in bridge. Happy birthday to him! But I think we'll stick to the usual style in the negotiations, try to say orally what we have to say. If we have a lot of creative characters here, the Riigikogu Board will suddenly make us a small creative room where we can deal with ceramics and silk printing. Now for lawmaking. If you look at how general or specific a law can be, there is no absolute truth here. There are, of course, laws in which specificity, even in the form of a figure, is very necessary. At the same time, we really should not cause the law to provide for the situation of every god and to be embarrassed when a situation has not been analysed. Maintaining a good level of generalisation is therefore an important keyword. When it comes to impacts, it must be said that they must be anticipated and analysed, but the criterion of truth is always practice. We discussed state fees in civil court proceedings in the spring and also carried out an analysis of what should happen. You don't know what happens every time. For example, although the law has now been in force for a few months, as of Friday last week, it can be said that what was expected has not yet been implemented, i.e. that the appeals to the court have not increased, it has actually decreased. But can we say it the same way in 2013, we'll see that. However, of course, we should examine as many effects as possible in advance. There has been talk of an enormous flow of laws. I think that it will never be possible in the Republic of Estonia to exceed the time that was in 2003-2004 when we were preparing to enter the European Union. So, in my opinion, the Riigikogu is not currently in a position to overburden itself with legislation. The kind of government that would do that doesn't exist, and there's no need for such a government. After all, we certainly no longer live in the time that was in the early 1990s, when Riigikogu members rolled up their sleeves, worked all night, and their momentum did not subside until the draft had been written. At all, it is certainly a debate issue when one of the drafts to be brought to the Riigikogu must be prepared. Lawyers of law, this is very nice, inclusion is necessary and proposals can also come to 800, just as happened with the Public Service Act, but I think the Riigikogu must retain its role. There are certainly political positions in the draft laws where decision-making must be handed over to the legislator, and by the end of the day, as many of us love to say, the President will see that our political plans are well in line with the Constitution. I'll take two more minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U47	Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U48	As for the role of the Riigikogu, we are all representatives of the people here. We are helped by lawyers, but we must be able to be good in this good lawmaking, regardless of our academic education or lack of it. There will certainly not be such a time, as good Professor Igor Gräzin hopes, that the cluster law of repealing laws, by which all meaningless laws at the same time will be abolished by a single law, because such a cluster law would be contrary to good lawmaking practice. With regard to the issue of language and the availability of laws, traffic law is certainly a good example. Today, bookshops can become both Russian and Estonian-language laws. Entrepreneurs have done this job nicely. It is a question of how many Estonians, Estonians, who are involved in traffic every day after the traffic laws have changed, read it. Often people just think they're gonna get along somehow. I think we've gotten better in time, and that's gonna happen to us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U49	Thank you. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Neeme Suur! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U50	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, What is the document we heard about the implementation? As we can read from the document itself, the aim of the legislative policies is to set out an action plan to improve the quality of legislation. First of all, this action plan was really needed, even though the Minister of Justice himself has often stressed that new standards and regulations should not be pushed into being if progress could be made in better and more efficient implementation of existing ones. A document setting out the conditions to which the legislation must comply was and is still the rule of regulation of the drafts to be processed in the Riigikogu, which was born in 1993 and was recast in 2001 and 2011. Everything we have talked about today, the assessment of the effects, the inclusion, the clarity of the wording, is written there. As a matter of fact, yes, not strategic or fundamental, but prescriptive. However, the standard did not prove sufficient. The cluster drafts, incomprehensible texts, ignoring stakeholders, lack of involvement, insufficient impact assessment and overregulation were and are, unfortunately, still a daily problem in lawmaking. Since 2007, the expression 'good lawmaking practice' has been actively used, and since the beginning of 2011, it has also been poured into the form of the Riigikogu's decision. The value of legal policy developments as a document lies in two aspects. Firstly, the basic principles of legislation are repeated in a clear and unambiguous way. Secondly, the Government of the Republic will be given a clear agenda. If the trends had been limited to a list of declarative principles, very evil critics could have claimed that this was a hypocritical cover that would allow the sultry to continue. Now, however, we can evaluate the real activities and tasks that are reflected in the Riigikogu decision as a time limit. As this is an action plan established by the Riigikogu, it is important for the Riigikogu to monitor how this action plan is implemented. Today, the Minister of Justice spoke at length about the importance of principles and about the fact that there have already been seven plans to draft legislation this year and hopefully each ministry will be able to present at least one this year. However, there are nine specific tasks in the development of legal policy that were to be fulfilled by the end of 2012, in addition to making a presentation in the Riigikogu. Yes, the tasks are being carried out, but today we learned that the implementation of the tasks set for 2012 is only halfway through. The Justice Department is going to have a very tight end of the year if they want to stay on schedule. In fact, the action plan is not only being carried out because of a tick, so that it is possible to report that this or another thing has been done. However, there is a need for the implementation and implementation of the principles of good lawmaking in lawmaking. It's sadder than that. It is autumn 2012, a year and a half since the adoption of legislative policy developments. The coalition's style of operation can be characterized by the words 'objective consecrates the remedy'. Need-basedness is beginning to become a slogan. One hand creates principles of good lawmaking and the other hand ignores them, if necessary. Let's talk about involvement. In other words, what kind of involvement can we talk about in the draft for the abolition of the land tax on the land under home country? Only on Tuesday did the Prime Minister repeat the basic truth: the law was changed to contain Tallinn. Each local authority understands that the proposed compensation mechanism is incomplete and undermines the sovereignty of the local authorities. The former Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, has used the expression 'poor legislation'. Can we use the same expression when we amend the Land Tax Act? What kind of social cohesion or legitimacy can we talk about in terms of amending the law on collective agreements, changing the principles of unemployment insurance or amending the law on higher education? The coalition road roller ran over not just the opposition in the Riigikogu hall, but from the crowds gathered on the streets, as a figurative expression. Speaking of cluster laws, we have just dealt with changes in state fees, the retirement age of judges and relations between bailiffs and the Ministry of Justice. All in one bill. The field was one, but the topics were completely different. Or we could talk about impact assessment. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school states in black that the draft does not entail any additional costs for the schoolkeeper. That's not true. Yesterday, we addressed the draft law on student grants and student loans, which obviously does not take into account how the law affects less insured people and access to higher education. What clarity and comprehension can we speak about in the law when "family" and "household" are different concepts in each law? Imagine a dialogue between young people: 'Honey, we could get married and start a family. '''Oh, but what kind of family do you mean, in terms of family law, student benefits and student loan law or social welfare law? ' Ladies and gentlemen, Developments in legal policy are a crucial document. The expectations are really great. I must ask the question: will the Minister of Justice be able to implement the action plan, will the principles highlighted in the document actually become an integral part of day-to-day legislation? All of this is not because the representative of the opposition must necessarily be critical of the activities of the government coalition, and not because there is real reason to be critical, but because the implementation of this document is directly dependent on politics, the reputation of politicians and the Riigikogu, and the people's confidence in their elected representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U51	Thank you. Please present the Riigikogu Chair Representative for the Reform Party Group Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U52	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Our group quite seriously recognises the action that the Government of the Republic has undertaken in order to implement the "Developments of Justice Policy until 2018" programming document adopted in the last days of the previous Riigikogu. It was already mentioned here today that our former good colleague, Uno Mereste, an academician who is now a manatee, pointed out years ago that the understanding of laws must not only be the property of highly educated lawyers, but the law must be simple and clear. After all, these same principles have also been incorporated into developments in legal policy. Through the drafting and implementation of legislation in this way, the political will or direction that the coalition has decided to implement or in which the opposition or the entire Riigikogu, 101 members, have almost all been involved, has emerged. But you see, the truths of the abscess need to be repeated. It is therefore very good that we set out in this decision that every year, around autumn, the Minister of Justice will come here and tell us how the Government has achieved these developments. After all, we have no doubt that the government has a central role to play in drafting legislation and assessing its effects. After all, most legislation is initiated in the Government of the Republic. But also with regard to the legislation presented by the members of the Riigikogu, committees and political groups, we always ask for the opinion of the Government of the Republic. Neither I nor my group agree that we here, as a roller on the road, are going over all positions that come not from this Riigikogu, but from a third sector, from civil society organisations, interested parties who are somehow bound by the bill or in the future by law. But it is also clear that not all these opinions can be taken into account unambiguously. That wouldn't be the law. The final responsibility must still be assumed by the Riigikogu, at least at least the 51 members of the Riigikogu who can adopt this law. Small things start with great deeds. It was a surprise to all of us at the time that, for example, the norm rules of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu did not comply with what was stated in the norm rules of the State Chancellery. These provisions were very difficult to reconcile. Regardless of who was currently forming a coalition of government in the country, all political positions wanted to be implemented through legislation. Once again, the power to work for the government! I believe that in a year's time, in the light of this decision, we will be able to talk about much more concrete matters. Today, however, it was only a list of directions, preliminary positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U53	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I thank Minister of Justice Kristen Michal! I would like to thank all the members of the Riigikogu who spoke with questions and speeches. The item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.42 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Developments in legal policy include nine specific tasks to be carried out by the end of 2012. Can you perhaps give an overview of which of them can and cannot be actually managed by the end of this year? For example, it is necessary to establish a procedure for the participation of the European Union in the legislative process, a procedure for transposing European Union law, a procedure for submitting drafts for public debate and for submitting the results of the debate to the Riigikogu, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U55	Thank you. I have one even more comprehensive table that describes on several pages what tasks have been completed and what is being completed. I'm not going to read it because time is limited. I'd be happy to give it to you or make it available to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U56	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You spoke very rightly in your presentation about the need to improve the integrity of the legislative organisation in Estonia. You said this was the next important direction. But the integrity of the implementation of law is often concerned, whether or not ministries are able or unable to cooperate. I'll take metal theft issues, for example. I'm saying there are laws, but this function is fragmented between the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Environment and maybe some other authorities. Overall, there has been good regulation and there is good law, but its implementation is entangled behind the lack of cooperation. Does the Ministry of Justice plan to coordinate in this area so that good lawmaking is followed by the application of good law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U58	As I said in the report, we will start by ensuring that legislation is of a uniform and similar quality. This means reviewing how quality control is ensured in the Ministry so that legislative policy or technical choices are similar. We're working on that side right now. As regards the way in which the authorities work together, when it comes to our administration, we certainly intend to contribute to this. I agree with you that Estonia is so small that we do not need to create institutions in the public sector that coordinate other institutions, but rather the authorities should cooperate. We have no political disagreements here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U59	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U60	Thank you very much for your thorough presentation. My question concerns the quality of legislation. Late colleagues in the Riigikogu have said that this quality has improved every year. That's good to hear. But at the spring session, for example, a draft concerning the service of the Defence Forces came into the proceedings of the Riigikogu from the Ministry of Defence, the purpose of which was all noble and logical, but where nearly 200 technical changes and improvements had to be made. There was a lot of technical failure. What would help to avoid such practices in the future? Is there a lack of cooperation between ministries or is this a problem due to the weak manning of certain ministries with legislative specialists?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U61	Thank you. That's one of the things I touched on in my report. This question will probably also arise in practice. I am not even dealing with a specific draft, and I certainly do not want to make any accusations. However, if the subject has previously been discussed with stakeholders, experts, experts, scientists and practitioners, there will be less need for technical changes to the legislator's discussions, as you said. That is, in fact, one idea of good regulation: to discuss everything as openly and openly as possible. I would like to draw attention to a bit of an outsider, but it seems to me that perhaps there is nothing to be afraid of communicating with stakeholders. Often it seems that so much is not encouraged to communicate with people who are active in the economy or in some other field. Speaking of the Ministry of Defence, I am absolutely certain that the relationship of the Defence Forces with experts in their field is impeccable. It is important to do the work that has to be done. I would like to point out, for example, that the reform of the public service was the subject of a total of 800-900 amendments, not including 100-150. This shows that work must be long enough and all things must be done. That is what quality assurance is all about. But in good lawmaking, it is even more important that these changes are made before the law is passed. It would be much worse if these 200 or 20 amendments were to be made after the law was passed and the law had to be corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U62	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns the Constitution of Estonia. Recently, a number of legal experts have expressed the opinion that the Constitution should be reviewed or even rewritten now that we are a member of the European Union and the euro area. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U64	Thank you. Dear Minister, These ideas, thoughts and orientations which you have highlighted deserve full recognition and approval. If you can carry them all out, a major step has been taken towards a better and better functioning rule of law. Good luck to you! But you yourself also stated that the legislation will ultimately be passed by the Riigikogu. We are responsible for which law will go before the people and whether it will be criticised or not. How do you assess the technical capacity and legal baggage of the Riigikogu, so that the Riigikogu can initiate the drafts itself, process them and bring them into a proper, well-understood and predictable form?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U65	Thank you. I dare say that the Riigikogu has clearly become more competent in time. Maybe it's an inevitable process, but it seems to me, at least on the basis of the visual impression that there are more and more lawyers in each of the next compositions. This is the case in many national parliaments and in politics at all. It's not just lawyers who have to make laws. When I come to the first part of the question, I say that these principles can be applied if the whole government, the whole agency and also Parliament work together on their behalf. Here the answer is also on the other side of the question. Parliament can use the executive for what it is doing very actively. He orders analyses and summaries and asks how serious the problem is. If it turns out that the problem is worthy of discussion in Parliament, Parliament will initiate a solution to the problem. I'd rather see a good symbiosis here. But if Parliament needs or wants any resources to increase its legislative capacity, it is in Parliament's hands. Ultimately, you will decide in this Chamber how to proceed with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U66	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I have heard your answer to Mr Allik's question, but I will be more specific. Mr Allik specifically asked whether it would not be possible or necessary to translate Estonian laws into Russian. As we all know, one in three Estonian residents (the census told us so) admits that their native language is Russian. You said exactly three minutes and ten seconds ago that the law must be simple, clear and understandable and only in this case that law will be respected. How do you intend to fill all this with Russian-speaking residents who may not be very good at speaking Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U68	Thank you. The working language of the Estonian state is, however, Estonian. Let us not forget this in this Chamber. That's why laws are made. But, of course, we must make further efforts to simplify and clarify the law. I'm not saying all laws are perfect. I'm sure we have a long way to go. For my part, I intend to ensure this as much as possible at the Ministry of Justice. I think there is a great deal you can do in this Chamber, too, by making sure that the laws are understandable. As far as translation is concerned, I can add (I do not have the exact figures with me) that there has been quite a lack of interest in the Russian-language summaries of the laws over time. The State Gazette has provided such a service, but this interest has unfortunately decreased over time. Therefore, this service is no longer offered and there has been no practical need for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U69	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. For years, the Minister of Justice in the Riigikogu has been talking about the development of criminal policy. You said that today is the first time that the Minister of Justice has presented a presentation on the implementation of developments in legal policy. I think it's like a new book, page one. In this connection, I have a question for you. Can it be understood that the Minister of Justice is no longer accountable for the development of criminal policy in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U71	Thank you. I don't know how to draw that conclusion. Maybe our logics are different. Following developments in specific areas, the Minister reports according to how the legislator has wished or what the social agreement is. It is currently agreed that the Minister of Justice will talk about justice policy and criminal policy, so he will probably continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U72	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject of Jaak Allik and Yana Toom. Firstly, I do not agree with you that the Russian translation of the law was badly used. In fact, it gave quite a large number of people the opportunity to get to know the laws more quickly, but the original version in Estonian was, of course, used in work and practice. At present, there is no unofficial translation, there are several translations and there may be a great many problems with the fact that the law can be commented on either way or at the same time. Do you think this is a good idea for the country, not to translate laws for people who make up a third of the population?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U74	Thank you. After all, we both understand that the working language of the Estonian state is ultimately Estonian. We must strive to ensure that people can deal with legislation in this working language, receive high-quality legal assistance, etc. What has the public sector done here? Legal assistance and guidance on specific cases are also available in other languages. Laws were translated into Russian years ago. Once again, I am sorry that I do not have these specific accounts with me. But I have seen this problem before, because the Centre Party has raised this issue before. Translation, however, decreased over time. The number of subscribers who wanted Russian translations of the law was reduced. So both the practice and the legal space determine that the working language of the Estonian state is Estonian, the direction is one. At least for now, we do not intend to translate legislation into Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U75	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U76	Thank you. I was a little unclear as to exactly what the current situation you were talking about was. But as for the attack on officials, including police officers, no country can tolerate it. This is definitely not acceptable. In Estonia, such attacks are more punishable than attacking other persons. So this act is punishable and the people who attack the police are punished. Can't say no one's gonna get away with it. As regards the penalty rates and whether there are any reasons for these attacks, it is actually a matter of analysis. Looking at the general figures, the overall number of crimes in Estonia is decreasing. Looking at trends, the proportion of crimes against individuals has increased. Experts relate this to the fact that more alcohol is consumed. When alcohol consumption became smaller in absolute numbers during the recession, it has now increased. However, the number of more serious crimes against individuals has decreased. Analysis of trends in crime is ongoing. When an officer is attacked, we need to look at the reason whether the police need tactical changes or whether legislative changes are needed. Many of these are issues that need to be analysed together. I'm sure we're working with the police here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-09-27_U77	Neeme the Great, please!
