ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable guests! Good session online watchers! Good afternoon. Let's start the April 4th briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. 43 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 58 are missing. Today's briefing will be attended by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, and Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. Dear colleagues, I have a request for you. As President, I have the wish to allow all pre-registered questions to be put today, if possible. I therefore allow two to three additional questions to be put on the spot on various issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U2	Let's get to the questions. The first question is asked by Marianne Mikko, a member of the Riigikogu, and the Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, a member of the Government of the Republic. The subject is the pay gap. Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U3	A month ago, on 5 March there was an equal pay day in the European Union. This did not concern us in Estonia, because the Estonian woman only receives her salary for the previous year on 19 April, having worked extra for three months and three weeks. The gender pay gap in Estonia is the deepest in Europe: the salary of an Estonian woman is one third lower than that of an Estonian man. On 20 September, the Riigikogu adopted a decision without any vote against requiring the government to develop an action plan to reduce the pay gap between women and men. Six months after the decision of the Riigikogu, I ask: when will Parliament and the Estonian people be able to see an action plan on the pay gap, which sets out concrete measures, including state supervision, analysis of laws, communication and collective negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U4	The action plan on the pay gap will be reviewed by the Minister of Social Affairs today and will then be discussed in the Government of the Republic. This is a very important issue. In Estonia, the deepest wage gap in the European Union is 27.6%, while the wage gap in the European Union is 17.5% on average. So we don't have to be proud of that 27.6%. At the same time, it is not as easy to solve this problem as you imagine that we are assigning gender quotas, and the problem is broken. Two studies have also been carried out in Estonia. According to one study, as much as 85% of the causes of the pay gap are unknown. According to the second study, the causes of the pay gap are known to us, as far as I can remember, to be 4.6%, so more than 95% of the causes of the gap are unknown.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U5	The first question to be specified, Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U6	On Women's Day, Minister of Finance Ligi stated that: "The teaching profession is not the least remunerated. An overwhelming majority of 75-80% of women earn less than a female teacher. " How does the Prime Minister comment on the statement made by the minister in his office, which was meant to compare poorly paid teachers with even worse paid women?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U7	That's what you gave Jürgen Ligi to say right now. But in fact, what Jürgen Ligi said is true.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U8	The second point, Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U9	I am convinced that Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi should apologise to the Estonian teacher. Since your party partner has not done so, wouldn't Prime Minister Ansip like to do so himself in front of us to save the good reputation of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U10	But then please provide a different set of figures! If you have different percentages, please submit them! And in that case, the one who was wrong must probably apologize.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U11	Now three issues registered on the spot. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Do you consider it reasonable, in the context of reducing the pay gap, to use a European quota system for the creation of a new Gender Equality Council? To ensure that it is not a men's or women's club but that both sexes are represented in at least 40% of its members.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U13	First of all, you have to get into the nature of the problem. We need to find out what this gap is all about. That there is a gap, obviously there is no way to challenge it, but from what it came about, we cannot say that at the moment. We are always talking about the knowledge-based economy, the knowledge-based society, but at the level of the Riigikogu you would like to make decisions without any knowledge. I certainly cannot agree with this approach. If we look at what we've got right now, it'll make a lot of effort. Yes, there is a pay gap of 27.6% in Estonia, with an average of 17.5% in the European Union. We have a much bigger problem than the European Union average. In Latvia, the pay gap is 13.4%, in Lithuania 21.6%, in Finland it is 20.0%. We are used to considering ourselves to be very similar to Latvia and Lithuania, but now it turns out that, in terms of the gender pay gap, Latvia's most exemplary countries in the European Union almost do not exist. Lithuania is almost equal to Finland, but Estonia has the largest pay gap. I have not read any scientific articles justifying such differences in the pay gap between the four neighbouring countries. First, we have to start with statistics. This is what the researchers who deal with the pay gap in Estonia are recommending first. More relevant wage statistics need to be collected in order to draw any conclusions. Quotas in this is a sweeping, this is not the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U14	Prime Minister, your time is up! Let's keep going. Heljo Pikhof, please ask your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Under the Constitution, all working conditions should be controlled by the State, including the basis for determining wages. Has the new Employment Contracts Act, which came into force in 2009, by which the Labour Inspectorate was deprived of the right to check the basis for determining pay, not contributed to the increase in the pay gap between men and women? I would like to know whether the Government is going to implement the Constitution and give back this function to the Labour Inspectorate, i.e. the duty and the right to verify the basis for determining wages. This may also be helpful to you as to why this pay gap has increased in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U16	Good questioner! You probably know that the biggest wage gap in the European Union in Estonia was also in 2000-2008. At a later date, this pay gap has not increased, at least we do not have any reliable data on it anywhere. If we also had the largest wage gap in the European Union between 2000 and 2008, the text of the Employment Contracts Act adopted in 2009 cannot be to blame for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U17	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We often follow the example of neighbouring countries and compare ourselves with progressive countries, often also with Denmark. I'm sure you've had a lot of contact with the Danish Prime Minister. Has it not occurred to you to apply the Danish experience? Is it not time for us to establish a Ministry of Gender Equality and Equal Treatment in Estonia, as it is in Denmark?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U19	I'm sure you'd be willing to set up a special committee and get a parking space for the chairman's car in the castle yard. But the Danish gender pay gap is 17.1% among the European averages, according to my memory. Denmark is not at the forefront of the European Union in this area. So obviously, this ministry's experience is worth investigating. In any case, there is no basis for us to claim that this experience would have resulted in the smallest wage gap in the European Union. If we need to learn from our immediate neighbourhood, we should go to Latvia and learn from them how they have become a country with a virtually non-existent pay gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U20	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U21	Let us move on to the second question. It has been submitted by Yana Toom, member of the Riigikogu, corresponding to Ken-Marti Vaher. It's about internal security. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U22	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, The problem of internal security in Ida-Virumaa has recently emerged since one incident. After the brutal murder of a young girl, terrible, worrying figures have reached the media columns. For example, 40 patrol police officers and 17 other police officers are missing in Ida-Virumaa. At the same time, we read in the media that only two patrol police officers will arrive for this year's work. Obviously, the state does not have enough resources or plans to motivate or resolve the situation at all. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U23	Thank you very much. The issue of vacant police posts is certainly serious. However, quite a number of measures have been taken, as we know, precisely to change the situation in Ida-Virumaa. Namely, Ida-Virumaa is the only area in Estonia where the so-called regional fee is used for police officers working there, i.e. the Police and Border Guard Board officials. It is a direct financial motivation to work in Ida-Virumaa. In addition, a number of other measures are envisaged, such as internships for the graduates of the Estonian Defence Academy, as well as a certain number of places for officials of the Eastern Prefecture to study at remote study places of the Estonian Defence Academy, etc. There is certainly a need to look at this side as well, as regards the additional requirements for working in Ida-Virumaa, especially for people whose native language is not Estonian. In my opinion, the conditions for language requirements are now very clear and at the same time flexible. By 1 September 2015, all police officers will have to achieve a C1 level of proficiency in Estonian language. That is not the case at the moment. As far as I am concerned, however, no one has been directly bullied by this, but has been tried to meet people in every way. People have been targeted at Estonian language courses, which are also financially supported, and have also been sent to Estonian-language places for internships, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U24	Question number one, Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U25	Thank you. Mr. Minister! According to official data, the Prefecture of the East employs about 900 people. Last year, 79, or almost 10%, of them quit. Do you think that this percentage of dismissal is normal and, if not, what can be done to avoid it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U26	It is quite clear that people are changing jobs and it is impossible to guarantee that the compositions will remain 100% the same year after year. I do not think that this is purely practically possible, nor is it right. Surely people change positions and challenge themselves again, so that reasonable, normal turnover is perfectly understandable. However, as I mentioned in the previous reply, quite a number of steps have been taken to look for additional incentives for people to work there, given the particularities of Ida-Viru County. There is also a specific regional fee for police officers to want to carry themselves out in Ida-Virumaa and find their place in the police system there. It is a beneficiary of language training, is a beneficiary of in-service training, very close links with the Academy of Internal Defence etc. So steps have been taken. But there's definitely room for improvement in the Eastern Prefecture. In 2012 and 2013, further steps need to be considered to strengthen the legal order and law enforcement bodies in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U27	And now the second issue registered on the spot and three additional questions. Please, Yana Toom, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Firstly, what I want to say is that we all understand, and no one is arguing that people working for the police have to speak the official language at the highest possible level. But both the Russian community and Ida-Virumaa have the notion that these language demands weaken the police there, and that is one reason why the situation is so sad. Hence my question: have you seriously considered the possibility of giving a certain discount to policemen working there in terms of language skills until people with a better knowledge of Estonian have been found?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U29	No, I don't support any discounts on national language skills. I firmly believe that people who represent the country and are workers of the law enforcement body who are in close contact with the public, because they have to explain their actions, which may also be a violation of fundamental rights, must do so in the national language. I don't see a way to change these requirements. I see an opportunity to do exactly the opposite: the opportunities for researchers and law enforcement to learn the national language must be encouraged in every way. That's what's been done. People are offered language courses, and are offered the opportunity to practice in the Estonian working environment. It has recently been used by quite a few Narva police officers working in Rakvere. In my opinion, it is possible to motivate people to learn the official language considerably better. And if it is a good specialist, it should also be able to learn Estonian. I also think that the transitional periods that are currently in place are long enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U30	And now three questions registered on the spot. Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U31	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Is there a known number of curators who, after graduation from the National Defence Academy, do not go to work in an acquired specialty? If this amount is known, is there a reason why people go elsewhere? Maybe we'll feed private security companies on the account of the National Defence Academy.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U32	A significant number of Estonian National Defence Academy graduates find employment in some public institutions. As we know, the National Defence Academy prepares officials for work in various authorities, such as prison and police services. The Tax Administration also receives fresh blood and considerable new competence and strength from the Estonian National Defence Academy. There is room for improvement, but most people who graduate from the National Defence Academy find challenges in the public sector. It is quite clear that most of the students of the National Defence Academy will be aware of this already when they cross the threshold of the National Defence Academy after entering the first course. This remains a major challenge for them, as it is still a very specific educational institution and specialties, for which the performance of tasks is mainly possible in the public sector, in the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U33	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The people of Narva asked me to ask you a question about Varvara's murder. As far as the media record is concerned, solving the case is a matter of police and state honor. I want to ask you, how far has this investigation come? I will continue to come up with this question every time you arrive at Question Time on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U35	Criminal proceedings are under way, investigation is under way. It is quite clear that I cannot comment on the details of the investigation today. This tragic case, as has been the case with the media, is the first time in Estonia in the sense that the child has been unfortunately lost and subsequently found killed. Today, a possible crime formation has been reviewed and an investigation is underway. Predictably, we very much hope that the investigation will arrive relatively quickly at the next stage, i.e. the identification of the suspect. If you look at similar cases, perhaps the most eloquent of which is the case of the so-called bat killer, then it is remembered that there was a very large police resource involved in solving it. More than 500 expert analyses were carried out and this took 11 months, unfortunately. I very much hope that the investigation of the Varvara case will reach the perceived intermediate stage more quickly, but unfortunately, no arguments can be issued. I assure you, however, that the best police forces are at stake and all other authorities are, of course, involved, in this particular case, in the expert bodies. The Central Criminal Police are involved, of course, also the local criminal police and prosecutor's office. As soon as any piece of information is available, the DA's office will be sure to transmit it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U36	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! This happens very rarely when the representative of the coalition of the opposition is praised, but yesterday's news, where the Ministry of the Interior promised that the Academy of Interior would be transferred to Virumaa, would like to congratulate the IRL Group and say that this is one truly patriotic act. I began to wonder what the last one was, but unfortunately I didn't remember anything. The question is, what does the timeline look like? I am thinking of building, completing and starting work at the National Defence Academy in Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U38	Thank you for the question and for the modest compliment that did not reach the past, but at least touched the present! The IRL Group did indeed shape its position yesterday. The debate at the Government Office is still ahead, hopefully it will take place in the coming weeks, and then we will be able to talk about more concrete steps that are missing from the Academy of Home Affairs. As far as the location is concerned, we have alternatives on the table. Yes, the position of the IRL Group is that the Republic of Estonia would be more in Ida-Virumaa than all units of the Estonian Academy of Defence would be gathered there. As we know, the Estonian National Defence Academy is scattered all over Estonia with units in Paikus, Väike-Maarja, Muraste, Tallinn, Pirita. This would be a significant investment, which concerns real estate in particular. If the final decision is made in favour of Ida-Virumaa, it will certainly mean a very large investment there, which I believe should in a good way lead to other decisions that will benefit the development of Ida-Virumaa. One way I can see other state agencies moving to Ida-Virumaa. Of course, this means reviving entrepreneurship and the whole living environment, and in this sense it could be seen as a very strong legset of the Republic of Estonia in this region.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U39	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U40	Let's move on to question three. This question has been asked by Andres Anvelt, a member of the Riigikogu, answers the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. The topic is the number of drug deaths in Estonia. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U41	Good manager! Good Minister of the Interior! We have talked in many ways in this Riigikogu about road deaths, the deaths caused by fires, but we have forgotten about an area such as drug deaths, which largely affects the younger population. In 2006, the number of drug deaths in Estonia was 70, then last year 146, almost twice as high as the number of drug deaths in the next European Union country. So here's my first question to you: what, as Minister of the Interior, do you think I'm just emphasising the word 'Minister of the Interior', because I've already asked the Minister of Social Affairs the same question about the very high rate of drug deaths?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U42	Indeed, in 2006 this figure was significantly lower than, for example, in 2011 or 2009. According to my data, the number of drug deaths in 2011 was 123 and the highest in 2009 was 140. Experts have pointed out that the increase in drug deaths is an important reason for the steady increase in production of synthetic drugs entering the market worldwide and also in Europe. A few years ago, fentanyl was released into Estonia by synthetic heroin, also called white Chinese, which is said to be hundreds of times more powerful and strong than heroin. Since then, the number of drug deaths has jumped. If we look at the statistics, 70% of drug deaths are accounted for by Harjumaa and 70% of those dead are younger men. It is mainly drug addicts, and overdose is the main reason why people have lost their lives. However, overdoses are due to the fact that new synthetic drugs, mainly fentanyl, are very strong. For example, a white Persian is a thousand times stronger than heroin. People have followed their usual injections and have overdosed and died.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U43	Thank you! Dear colleagues, two questions registered in the Chamber can be asked in the context of this question. Now, the first question to be specified, Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U44	Thank you for your answer. I'll ask you a little bit from the other side. I offer here the Ministry of Justice statistics on a type of crime such as small amounts of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, i.e. illicit trafficking in the language of the people. That's what's happening on the street corners. I myself managed to call the police back on such a handling operation a few days ago, unfortunately they didn't make it. Now, that figure has fallen dramatically. I am not going to talk in 2003. Since the year when that figure was around half a thousand. In 2006, with which I compared earlier, it was 197, now it's 91. Don't you see any connection here? It is on the street that this lethal dosage is being bought, and the number of dealers caught on the street has fallen so drastically.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U45	The number of drug offences increased in 2011 compared to 2010. And, in fact, for years we have been a priority in the fight against serious drug crimes. Well, I guess this street dealership starts somewhere. And it starts with, in particular, more serious drug crimes, handling large quantities of drugs, marketing, resale, preparation for resale, etc. In this respect, there has been a significant change since 2004 in recent years, I would say. I think that our law enforcement authorities are increasingly able to hit larger quantities of drugs, large criminal drug groups, which are the main organised crime units in Estonia. The message that goes into this criminal drug community has also strengthened positively, and it is known that sanctions have changed considerably and that the country's attitude towards drug crime has become more intolerant. For example, if, at the beginning of the 2000s, one of the main court sanctions for handling large quantities of drugs was a few years in prison, now we are talking about more than ten years of imprisonment, even in the case of a settlement procedure, which means that Estonia is capable of confronting serious drug crime. I think it will also have a positive effect on the street dealership, reducing it. I believe that the general intolerance, the general ability to oppose serious drug crime as a country, is also reflected in the smaller numbers you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U46	The second point, Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U47	Thank you. Good Minister, we don't have time for a debate, but what you said didn't convince me of the positive development of things. People are dying. We can impose any punishment, even two lifetimes, but the amount that comes from the street has grown year after year. You're saying there's been an increase in the number of discoveries. Yeah, if it's a big deal. And even the number of attempts to tilt minors has decreased, and the same cases of dealership have decreased, but the number of dead people has increased. There's a fight against dealership on the street, or patrol police. That is why I am asking: what are your ministry's measures to actually reduce the number of young people who have died?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U48	I'm sorry, but you didn't ask about the measures earlier. I'd love to. I'm sure you're wrong if you think that somehow I want to show you the current situation more positively. I will highlight the strengths we have, but of course we also have considerable room for improvement. The Central Criminal Police have not been restored for nothing since 1 January 2012. An in-depth analysis is currently being carried out of the steps we can take to bring the investigation of drug crime to a new level in order to improve its quality in order to ensure uniform standards and a uniform attitude and working methodology across all drug groups across Estonia. Further activities can be described as follows. The prevention side is, of course, very important. The negotiations between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs are currently preparing the Committee on Governmental Drugs Prevention, which means that we are taking the drug addiction problem as a whole to the highest political level, to the ministerial level. We want to deal not only with reducing supply of drugs, but also with reducing demand, prevention. We want to invite experts, people in the third sector, volunteers as well as all authorities to put their backs together and think about how to reduce the demand for drugs among minors and combat their supply more effectively. More specifically, we need to consider rehabilitation issues and, of course, also answer the question of how many additional resources are needed to reduce the problem of drug addiction in Estonia. As you rightly said, this is a serious problem, and we are taking quite a few steps in this year and next year to ease it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U49	Now two issues registered on the spot. Raivo Järvi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U50	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm glad Andres Anvelt, just like he opened a little gate to my question. It is known that, in fact, Ida-Viru County is largely a place of concern. I think distribution around there is not just through the gates of Finland. Therefore, I ask: what is our relationship with the relevant bodies in Russia? As paradoxical as it is, although our relations with Russia at political level are quite reserved, it is very good and constructive at the official level and, oh surprise, even at the level of the power structures. This concerns border guards, for example. What about the criminal police level? Have the Emissaries of the Ministry of the Interior made any further openings? What is cooperation in this area where the objective is really common?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U51	Thank you for your question. First of all, a little bit of clarification. When we talk about drug deaths, 70% of them take place in Tallinn and elsewhere in Harjumaa. It is true that Ida-Viru County is second in number, but with a significantly lower number of drug deaths. So the myth that's spreading is that the largest number of drug deaths are accounted for by Ida-Viru County is not true. It is also quite logical that it does not, because the population concentration is inevitably the highest in Tallinn and, consequently, the number of drug deaths. But you're right, our law enforcement agencies are clearly in contact with law enforcement agencies to the east. Cooperation will also take place in the investigation of the case that has already been asked today to investigate the tragic death of Varvara. Cooperation was established in the first few days and I think that contacts have been very busy and intense. The same applies to certain other types of crime and also to border guards. In this sense, it is absolutely true that this direction is being developed as much as possible. If we go a little further than today and talk, for example, about border crossings between Estonia and Russia, then progress could also be noted in 2011. As you know, due to the Russian side, the significant time since the year the Estonian-Russian border has been closed. There is also a 20% easing in this area, which shows that Russia's will to improve the situation may have increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U52	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. People taking drugs, addicts, sick people have to be dealt with, and no matter how strange it sounds, they have to be treated. They must be guaranteed access to rehabilitation services and redirected back to our daily lives. It's a long-term process that can last for years or even for life. In this regard, Mr Minister, I ask: can you confirm that there is a system in our country that helps people who are caught in the gears of a drug-using machine?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U54	Thank you for your question. It is clear that there is room for improvement in the provision of rehabilitation and treatment facilities. However, as a positive message, I can announce that in five days' time, on 9 April, the Foundation Viljandi Hospital will start providing inpatient rehabilitation services to people with drug dependence problems. This is the first institution in a long time to provide such a service. In particular, it is currently targeted at female persons and opens 10 seats. In the near future, there is a plan to open the same ten places to male persons. In Viljandi, people are being tried to wean people out of drugs, and this is definitely going on. The Institute for Health Development is the funder of the project. Such places are also created in other parts of Estonia. The main issue now is which health institutions are able to provide professional treatment and rehabilitation to drug addicts. This is not a simple area, but a very solid service requiring technical readiness, competence and professionalism. As a result, we move forward step by step. It is not only a question of the degree of will and funding by the state, but also of health care institutions who must be prepared to provide this service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U55	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Dear colleagues and honourable members of the government! On the next three questions, I can allow two supplementary questions on the spot in each of the questions registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U56	Let's move on to question four. It has been submitted by Priit Toobal, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The topic is the future of local governments. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U57	Dear Vice-Chairman, Prime Minister! Last Saturday, a general assembly of cities and rural municipalities took place in Tallinn. It discussed a wide range of topics and also made a number of proposals. One of them was to provide that local authorities are responsible for the comprehensive development of the county and to grant public-law status to the regional self-government associations. In addition to the monitoring function, the functions of the county authorities could be delegated to and transferred to the regional self-government associations. How do you view this proposal as a head of government, and what role do you see in the future for rural governments and county councils?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U58	I have a positive view of the proposal. In fact, the proposal is not new; it was already presented by the former regional minister, Vallo Reimaa. In principle, this is a democratic direction in which local authorities can have a greater say through a county organisation or county association in order to contribute to the development of the county as a whole. So my attitude is positive. It has to be said, however, that there is nothing currently preventing local governments from cooperating to a greater extent. However, cooperation has not been very extensive. The role of rural governments has declined steadily over time. At one time, the rural parents were managed by state schools. They've gone directly to the Ministry of Education. Once, various nursing homes were managed by the county government, and they have also gone directly to the Ministry of Social Affairs. The museums have gone directly to the Ministry of Culture for the administration of rural elders and rural governments. So the functions of rural governments have been reduced, but certain tasks that the state must carry out anyway, regardless of whether or not the county governor's institution exists, remain. For example, the supervision of local government legislation must certainly be maintained in the future, as well as the planning supervisory functions that will remain in the hands of the State. The question is where it is best to exercise this supervision, whether in rural governments or, for example, in the Office of the Minister for Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U59	The first question to be specified, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U60	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your very substantive answer to the previous question. My second question also concerns what has been said in the general assembly of cities and rural municipalities. There we spoke about the administrative territorial reform carried out in the Republic of Latvia, our southern neighbour. You are in very close contact with the other Prime Ministers of the Baltic States and you certainly know how Latvia has carried out its administrative-territorial reform. How do you assess the implementation and outcome of this reform? Do you think that Estonia has a lesson to learn from this, or should it rather continue as our system is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U61	I am not a very large specialist in carrying out the administrative-territorial reform in Latvia, but for everyone who wants to become a specialist in this field, I strongly recommend that you read Professor Georg Sootla's relevant study. This study is thorough and quite voluminous, according to my memory about 150 pages, and also makes specific recommendations to Estonia. One of these recommendations is about not focusing on a single instrument, i.e. merging, of local democracy, the development of local authorities. The development of local democracy and local governments is a much more complex task and cannot be solved by mere consolidation. Let us recall the last human development report, which, as we know, compared developments in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. On page 109, in the Estonian language version of the report, there is a reference to the administrative-territorial reform of Latvia. In fact, the Human Development Report states that optimising the school network is a major problem in Latvia, which cannot succeed in any way, as the establishment and administration of schools is the responsibility of the local government. And now let us remember what was one of the objectives of the administrative-territorial reform in Latvia at all. It was taken to optimise the school network in order to reduce the number of schools. This objective has not been achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U62	And now two questions registered on the spot. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U63	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Prime Minister! You, as Head of Government, are probably not aware of the financial situation of local governments, which has been improved to some extent by income tax collection at the beginning of this year. But I ask you, Prime Minister: what percentage of income tax will be allocated to local governments next year? Have you discussed what this percentage number should be?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U64	We have not discussed this issue in the government office so much that I can now name a specific percentage. It used to be 11.4, then it started to rise fast until it reached 11.93. This last three, however, was never really a dream, a dream that had not been given to come true. It must be said, however, that compared to the historical distribution of 56: 44 that distribution was about 11.4%, or later 11.9%, which secured much higher revenues for local authorities than the earlier system would have insured. So the local authorities won anyway. Even during the crisis, the state took on a greater burden in the form of a central government than the local authorities had to bear. It is recalled that in 2010 the income from personal income tax to local governments decreased by around 7% compared to 2007, while the income from personal income tax from the central government decreased by 37%. However, I can confirm once again from this speaker that the loss of income from local authorities as a result of the abolition of land tax will be compensated in full, and this compensation mechanism will probably be an increase in the share of income tax. How many percent can I say today?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U65	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U66	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! How would you comment on the claim that during the crisis years, the contraction took place mainly at the expense of local authorities? It was as if they were more suffering than the central government.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U67	When I answered the previous question, I already made a substantive comment. The Government of the Republic was certainly the greater loser of personal income tax. Our income decreased considerably more than the income from personal income tax collected by local governments. 37% versus 7% - this is quite an example of how one and the other income decreased. When it comes to the revenue-costs of local governments, it can certainly not be said that local governments have received very large amounts of money for the construction of waste water treatment plants, clean water and sewerage pipelines. This total amount is EEK 8 billion, and this is what local authorities had to do with water projects. Local authorities have received a very large part of the money received by the state from the sale of surplus Kyoto allowances. In total, these funds have gone to local authorities for some EUR 150 million. These are very significant amounts, also taking into account the total budget of local authorities. This variation in the percentage of personal income tax between 11.4 and 11.93 is negligible compared to the same European amounts and Kyoto emission allowance sales funds that have gone to local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U68	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U69	Let's move on to question five. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Peeter Võsa, corresponding to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. The subject is road accidents. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U70	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! It is no surprise to you or, unfortunately, to me, that the cuts in the Police and Border Guard Board have been unintelligible. This has obviously had an impact on traffic. The 2011 road traffic accident statistics show that 101 people died, which is 22 more than in 2010. When 19 people left their lives in traffic in the first quarter of last year, 27 people have already died this year. The number of cars is not higher than last year, on the contrary, the traffic density is significantly lower than in 2008. However, the share of drunk drivers in road accidents has increased. Consequently, people feel impunity for the lack of presence of police patrols. The traffic situation is catastrophic. How many more people will have to die in road accidents in Estonia, so that the Police and Border Guard Board will stop the vague cuts and come back to calm down traffic on the streets?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U71	Thank you for your question. You could answer that and actually you should answer it for a long time. There's a lot of different nuances to bring out. To begin with, according to the experts, 15 to 25%, or a quarter, depends on road safety monitoring. 75% of road safety depends on other factors, not on traffic supervision. These factors are road user awareness, traffic code itself, technical maintenance of vehicles, certainly the traffic environment, i.e. the infrastructure side and, of course, compliance with traffic rules. That's one. Secondly, yes, compared to 2010 there was a marked reversal in 2011. At the same time, as we have spoken many times in this Chamber, 2010 was actually an extraordinary year in Estonia. It was a significant year when we compare it with European statistics in general. For example, last week, last week, fresh data just came in, and it was a drastic setback in Germany and Sweden, where road safety is generally excellently guaranteed and accident deaths are low. Sweden had a decline of almost 20% compared to 2010. It's the safest country in the world when we're talking about traffic. In Germany, going back was also noticeable. There is no point in talking about other countries now. Our situation, if you look at the statistics, is perhaps the closest to Belgium's. This is what the statistics published last week show, according to which we are in a relatively similar position to Belgium. And we were five years ago, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U72	Minister, your time! The first question to be specified, Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U73	Thank you. Based on various studies and statistics, it could be concluded that under Estonian circumstances traffic could be improved and calmed by better organized traffic, safely designed roads and practical and close control. Mobile police patrols should be visible on both highways and village roads, regardless of time. What has really been done to make it that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U74	Thank you for your question. Now to the various measures. First, it can be said that the volume of traffic surveillance will increase in 2012. We are currently discussing all the possibilities of increasing these volumes very intensively, and we will find them. Secondly, serious work is being done to develop the e-police. This means that we will make it much easier and less bureaucratic for all the activities that traffic controllers on the roads and other irregularities must carry out, from registration of infringements to sanctioning and communication with the relevant databases. Thirdly, in 2011, we had a major concern about light road users. By "light road users," I mean pedestrians and also cyclists. In this respect, there was an increase compared to 2010. There is a very serious concern about the security equipment and visibility of these people. When we are talking about visibility, for example, in 19 fatalities in 2011 a pedestrian in 16 cases did not use a retro-reflector for the deceased. This means very little awareness of people. When checking security equipment, the police must clearly be more demanding and review their sanctioning system. I have also spoken to the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board that our sanction system must be strict, maximum penalties must be applied to breaches of security equipment requirements. There is now much room for improvement in this area. However, all these measures as a whole should contribute to improving road safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U75	Minister, your time is up! And now the matter registered on the spot, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U76	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Since there is little time, I will ask briefly. According to the Traffic Act, return tyres are allowed until the end of March. It's snowing out now, and it's very slippery. Wouldn't it be wise to change this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U77	I'm sure you'll discuss it with the experts. Every year the question is up, of course it's all about weather conditions. On the basis of the experts' assessment, these decisions are made, and that is why the Transport Committee has been set up, which falls within the remit of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In particular, it is this Commission that is discussing such road safety issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U79	Now for the last question. It is presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, the theme is the parking procedure for disabled people's cars. Reply to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U80	Let me ask you a short question. Misuse of disabled people's parking cards, including the selling of pirated copies of these cards, has been addressed both on television and in other media. Thus, they are also used by persons who should not do so. As all the parking cards related to the organisation of local authorities, including the control side, my question is: has the police been approached with the proposal to carry out the relevant investigations in order to punish such card distributors and users of these cards?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U81	According to our information, for example, the municipal police authority in Tallinn has not provided any material on such cases. Indeed, this whole issue falls within the competence of the local government and concerns in particular the organisation of paid parking. So the local government has to offer a solution here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U82	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue. I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for their reply, and thank you, good fellows, for asking for you! Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U83	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 10th working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of nine colleagues, I have an inquiry to address to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. We know too many cases where the Riigikogu adopts some laws, because this is required by the Euro Directive. We don't have any other motives. And when this law has come into force, people will be unpleasantly surprised and ask how this bill has gone through the Riigikogu, which makes everyday life more uncomfortable and often more expensive. Our questioning concerns a decision of the European Union which has not yet been taken, but what is going to be done has been through the news. This concerns the withdrawal of Euros 1 and Euros 2 coins. Before the European Union takes such a decision, it will also seek advice from the Member States of the euro area, and with its questioning we want to know what our government's position is. The loss of these coins is known to have an impact on inflation and Estonia has already had a bad history of inflation after joining the euro zone, and inflation in Estonia has been very high. In March this year, inflation in Estonia was 5.1%, with which we are the country with the highest level of inflation in the euro area. We are followed by Greece with 4.3% and Luxembourg with 4%. Average inflation in the euro area is only 2.7%. We have four questions for the Minister of Finance regarding inflation and the disappearance of small euro cents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U85	I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the moment, the Riigikogu proceedings have not been declared by the President of the Republic by the Act amending the University Act, the Law of the University of Applied Sciences and other laws. The Social Democrats believe that the proposed reform of higher education can only start with the introduction of needs-based learning grants and results and sector-specific scholarships. This is also required by the Estonian Student Association, which has been agreed by the Minister of Education and Research and by the Chairman of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu and, as far as I know, by all the political groups of the Riigikogu. However, the government coalition has not been able to give a legitimate draft of necessity-based education grants to the Riigikogu proceedings. In order to have a constructive discussion of the law on amendments to university law and other laws not announced by the President of the Republic, the Social Democrats will submit a draft to the Riigikogu procedure, which was drawn up on the basis of the draft law amending the law on study grants and student loans prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research and the Tax Administration Act, which includes the vision of the party about the system of support for students, so that we can seriously talk about the possibility of free higher education in Estonia. The draft aims to create a system that allows young people to become independent and responsible for their studies. The provision of material support would be based on both the student's actual socio-economic needs and the financial situation of his/her family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U87	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U88	I have an inquiry to the Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet, on behalf of the seven members of the Central Party Group. This concerns the unhealthy situation in Ukraine, which Estonian investors have developed there. Here is an example of one company that has invested in the company for 12 years, but at one point the Ukrainian side stopped any cooperation and did not respond to any inquiries. In 1995, there is an investment protection agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Estonia, but this agreement does not work in practical life. In this regard, we have eight questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to which we are eagerly awaiting answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U89	Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U90	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to pass on the nine members of the Central Party Group to the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang. This concerns the organisation of county state museums. In 2009 and 2010, the Ministry of Culture and the then Minister of Culture had the idea of merging Estonian county museums into one state institution. The opposite direction has now been taken; museums are being turned into foundations or given to municipalities. The museum advisor of the Ministry of Culture has noted that the management model of the county museums has fallen behind in time and the form of the foundation allows for the creation of a two-tier governance model with a much simpler structure from the Ministry's point of view and a specific division of powers and responsibilities. The museum directors are of the opinion that the Ministry of Culture's understanding of the organisation of state museums is changing too quickly, without analysis and with the involvement of museum leaders. The museums have been instructed despite the fact that there have been no substantive discussions with them and no arguments for or against them have been considered. With regard to this issue, we have a total of six questions for the Minister of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U91	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and three inquiries, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides how to deal with them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Law on Administrative Cooperation and the Law on Sport, initiated on 2 April, commission of the Committee on Culture; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Ratification of Amendments to Articles 1 and 18 of the Treaty establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, initiated on 2 April, Committee on Monetary Affairs; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Forensic Science Act, initiated on 2 April, and related amendments to other laws, Leading Commission, Legal Affairs Committee; fourthly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the amendment of the State Fees Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated on 2 April, commission of the Economic Commission; fifth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Emergency Act, initiated on 2 April, Leading Commission on Constitutional Affairs; Sixth, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Law on the organisation of health services, initiated on 2 April, commission of the Social Affairs Committee; seventhly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the amendment of the State Fees Act initiated on 2 April and the related amendment of other laws, Leading Commission; 8th law commission; 8th law of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion, initiated on 2 April, Committee on Monetary Affairs; 9th in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a Draft Act on the Amendment and Supplementation of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 2 April, Lead Committee on Finance; 10th, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a draft law on supplementing the Penal Code, initiated on 3 April, the commission responsible for law. Next: The Board of the Riigikogu has approved the departure of a member of the Riigikogu, Priit Toobali, as a member of the Constitutional Committee, and his entry as a member of the Legal Committee. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. And, good fellows, we have come to the next procedure, which is presence control. Please! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U92	Let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act 88 on amendment of the Gambling Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No requests, no negotiations. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 88 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. The result of 71 members of the Riigikogu, against 15 and 1 impartially, the draft law amending the Gambling Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed. Dear colleagues, I have a request for you. If you run fast in this hall, be careful not to trip or fall. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U93	We go to the second item, which is the first reading of the Act amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I didn't trip, I didn't fall, I got the whole remote control. I have the honour to introduce to the Riigikogu draft law No 188 amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act. The aim of the draft is to ensure the availability and proper quality of primary healthcare through improved planning, organisation and monitoring. The draft amends the provisions of the Health Services Organisation Act on general medical care, which brings together the organisation function of primary health care, namely the establishment of a list of family doctors, the approval of lists of family doctors, the temporary replacement of family doctors and supervision to the Health Board. The regulation relating to the right to practise as a family doctor, in particular as regards the establishment and modification of the list of family doctors, will be made more precise than has been the case so far. The concept of a service area and a place of business, replacement of a listed family doctor etc. will be addressed. In addition, the draft amends the procedure for the collection and publication of statistical data relating to the activities of the healthcare provider. The National Institute for Health Development will collect data directly from service providers as appointed by the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Minister of Social Affairs, and the National Institute for Health Development will organise the publication of data instead of the Ministry of Social Affairs. But now the changes in detail. The minimum and maximum limits for the list of family doctors are currently established by regulation of the Minister of Social Affairs. We are very confident that the establishment of both the important thing and the size of the family doctor list must be laid down in law. As a result, it is proposed to bring regulation of the size of the list to the level of the law and, at the same time, to provide for the possibility of sharing those lists which, at the time of the entry into force of the draft law, are greater than 2400. This, in turn, leads to the conclusion that, if the maximum size of the lists is currently 1,200-2000 patients, the maximum number would be 2,400 patients if the law was adopted. The definition of a service area for family doctors is amended to ensure better access and quality of general medical care for those on the list. At present, legislation does not provide for the possibility of creating so-called trans-regional lists where appropriate. When a service area is approved, the Health Board will no longer be linked to the county borders, which will make it possible to draw up lists much more efficiently than it is now. The health authority shall approve the list of family doctors and the service area which is no longer rigidly linked to the county borders. At the same time, it is clear that the very close cooperation between the Agency and the local government is important for the transfer of the function of general medical care to the Health Board, only then will people receive medical care where it is most convenient and most accessible to them. At the same time, if the organisation of general medical care is centralised, the Health Board will continue its positive cooperation with local governments. As the task of the municipality is to organise both social assistance and transport at local level, the Ministry of Social Affairs considers that in the future the Health Board should work closely with local authorities to establish a list of family doctors and to establish a service area in order to take account of the needs of residents to get as comfortable as possible a public car for family doctors. Specify the procedure for the temporary replacement of the family doctor with the list. In order to ensure more precise regulation of the replacement of family doctors, the law specifically mentions short-term replacement, i.e. lasting up to three months, lasting up to two years, and, in the specific cases provided for by the law, permanent replacement. Compared to the current regulation, it is also permitted to appoint a family doctor-resident as a replacement for a family doctor for a period of more than three months in order to motivate young people, future family doctors to apply for a list in a competition or to be a replacement for a family doctor who is absent for a longer period. The regulation relating to the right to act as a family doctor will also be improved. General medical care will be provided on the basis of an authorisation granted by the Health Board to a company. A family doctor has the right to provide general medical care if the Health Board has approved a list and has a legal link with the company holding the licence. The family doctor may also be related to the company on the basis of a contract of employment relationship, without being a self-employed person or a member of the company. Centralise the collection of health statistics. Statistical data related to the activities of the healthcare provider will be collected directly from the service providers by the National Institute for Health Development. Until then, health statistics were exchanged by the county director for the Institute of Health Development. Removing the gap will make reporting and improving data faster and more effective. The Institute for Health Development will be able to publish health statistics more quickly on its website and will be made available to all interested parties. To sum up, these legislative changes have the effect of supplementing the tasks of the Health Board, redesigning the division of work for the organisation of general medical care and clarifying the supervisory role leading to improved access to and quality of medical care. We certainly support the decision of the Committee on Social Affairs to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U95	Thank you! Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When I look at the addition to Section 9 of the current Act by § 91, which regulates and specifies the place of business of a family doctor, paragraph 2 of that provision states: 'If the place of business of a family doctor is not situated in the service area of a family doctor, persons appearing on the list of family doctors must be guaranteed proper access to general medical care. The distance between the place of operation and the service area shall not be unreasonable. There must be a reasonable public transport connection between the site and the service area. 'My question is: what does 'unreasonably long' mean, and what does'reasonable public transport' mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U97	Thank you for your question. This was a point that we discussed for a very long time with the Ministry of the Interior. How can we really ensure reasonable access? To be honest, we were trying to find parallels with other laws. If we look at the legal regulations currently in force, such as the regulation of the same general part of the Code of Economic Activities Act or also the Law of Obligations Act, then the word'reasonable' is defined there. Or, let's say, it's been attempted to define. In other words, in different situations, this distance may be different. For example, if public transport is better organised, the distance may be longer. If public transport is less organised, the distance should definitely be shorter. In order not to lock down specific public transport networks, which can be constantly changed by rural governments, this agreed wording remained. There was an agreement that the Health Board had a very clear obligation to negotiate with all local authorities in order to find a rational solution and to get people to a family doctor at a reasonable distance at the right time. However, this problem is primarily due to cross-regional practices. We often have public transport organised within the county, we have county public transport centres. But that was the best wording we were able to put here under other legislation. We did not want to record specific kilometres or other criteria that could change over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U98	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, I think we both know that this is a necessary law, because there are some errors programmed into the family medical system that give both service providers and patients a feel. For ten years it was known, and now it was finally done to correct the mistakes. That's good! The principle of the bill is that rural elders are now being held responsible for family doctor lists, and all the work coordinated by county elders is now being organised by the Health Board. As far as I know, five officials will contact the local authorities. The mayor was very well aware of the logistics of his county, where there are attraction centers, how people move. It's probably gonna take a long time for these five Health Department officials to get as smart as they are. Can they do it? And how short or long do they need to get up to speed?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U100	I think they can handle it. I will tell you in advance that one of the topics that has been raised is where these people are going to be physically located. Our initial view is that these people are still as locally as possible. Really, 15 officers aren't coming. If we look at this rural government organization now, there is, in most cases, a quarter or half of the office to fill this position. Also, the Health Board, if I recall correctly, has planned eight posts to take over this function. The county authorities will retain these officials, only to carry out other tasks. So we will not ask the county governments for the resources to restructure it. In view of our daily activities, we can be sure that the people of the Health Board will remain in contact with both rural governments and local governments in order to ensure the best possible service. If we look at the current practice before the law is amended, in very many cases the situation has become such that the mayor asks the Health Board or the Ministry for help to complete one list or another. Therefore, cooperation is still present and in the future it will be 'turned', but it will continue. As I said, these people, the social advisors from the county governments, are not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U101	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U102	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have some of the same question, which you yourself partly pointed out. In your speech, you said that so far the mayor was communicating statistics. I dare say the mayor didn't hold the data on his desk and the officials entered them directly. In this sense, this process is unlikely to get any faster. On the other hand, with the removal of these functions by some of the civil servants, you indicate in the explanatory memorandum that they were doing several jobs at once, now the load is decreasing. My question has to do with the same. How much can you contribute to the fact that these officials, instead of 15 county government officials, are not going to be in Tallinn instead of 8 + 5 or 8 + 3 (Health Department 8 and TAI 5 or 3 officials)? That's my biggest concern. You once indicated that you were working on it. But to what extent and how can you help these officials to start working in different parts of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U103	I've been talking to the head of the Health Board about this. His clear position is that these people are still in the regions and not all are definitely in Tallinn. How the exact distribution will be, of course, is still to be discussed in detail. I can assure you that the first vision presented by the Health Board was such that, just as we currently have four regions for different services, there are four regions to fulfil this function. In any case, as I said, there is currently no full burden on rural governments to carry out this task, which the questioner certainly knows. In the Health Board, too, this change does not mean a significant increase in the number of national posts. We still have to rely on what is realistic and reasonable. About eight officials are realistic in order to perform this function, of which at least half will be located in the regions. But the final decision is made by the board of the Health Board, so I can tell you what they've confirmed to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U104	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This is certainly a very important draft. Here's my question. Does this bill help to ensure access to family doctor services in small islands even if there is no family doctor on the spot? The definition of the same concepts, which has already been mentioned here, is certainly even more complicated in the case of small islands, in terms of reasonable distance, reasonable public transport connections, etc. What would make sense? If this bill is passed as a law, do the smaller islands still have family medical care?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U106	The availability of family doctor services in the smaller islands will certainly not get worse. Rather, it is still that we will have the opportunity to find the most sensible solution through the organisation of the Health Board. As far as the small islands are concerned, we have different solutions. There are some small islands where there is a separate list of islands, but there are islands where residents receive medical care either from a larger island or from the mainland. So there are different solutions. But there are much bigger processes going on in the small islands that do not match this bill. Improvements in the organisation of health care in the small islands are currently underway. It is during these weeks that the ambulance will be discussed on small islands, in cooperation with the Health Board, the Ministry and the North Estonian Regional Hospital, who will organise the provision of operational services there. I also have a small request to the Riigikogu. At present, in the case of small islands, ambulances are not considered to be vital functions, but only police and rescue services. We may come up with this ourselves, but perhaps it would be wise if the association of islands in the Riigikogu thought about initiating such a legislative amendment so that the provision of ambulances would also be on the list of vital functions when it comes to servicing small islands.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U107	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Social Affairs! Maybe you could get some insight into the number of family doctor lists with 2400 people under the new law, and how many people are on the list. Consequently, the question is that if the family doctor does not want to create an additional department, what happens to people on the list, for example, the 2500s. How will their situation change in the light of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U109	There was also a good questioner at the Social Affairs Committee, where we discussed it for a long time, but it is very reasonable, in the interests of the great hall, to talk it over. As regards the size of the lists, there are 32 lists of more than 2400 people in Estonia. Two of the three largest lists are 3200 and almost 3400 persons in Saaremaa and one in Raplamaa, which includes 3200 persons. I said size classes, I'm not going to get a real person. In these practices there are also so-called assistant doctors who actually have the qualifications of a family doctor, so that the work on these large lists is organized rationally. As we talked about in the Commission, one of the most critical points of these large lists is certainly that a person must have access to a family doctor within the prescribed time. If the list becomes too large, it can be assumed that the family doctor will not be able to serve all people within the prescribed time. However, I believe that we do not need to worry about these lists. I would also add that patients currently have the right to choose a family doctor and, of course, if there is a division of lists, each patient has the choice of which family doctor he or she is going to visit.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U110	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, At present, the situation is one where we have rural governments quite unevenly prepared for the national supervision of family doctors and also for their substantive support. County governments have developed conglomerate departments that simultaneously compete for lists of substances Olympiads and family doctors. Family doctors believe that the state, be it the county government or the Health Board, could provide them with more substantive support. My question is: how will these changes contribute, firstly, to improving public supervision of family doctors and also to supporting substantive doctors if they have any problems when there may be conflicts with patients? How would, on the one hand, provide professional support to them and, on the other hand, supervision?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U112	Of course, one of the most important things is that family doctors also have the right to change their place of residence and, consequently, the list of patients on the list. However, the contact point for family doctors is one, the competence centre is one, the standards, the understanding of family doctor services, and the collection of statistics is the same. Mr. Onion said that the county elders are transmitting data quickly, but let's leave this link between them, so the family doctor is communicating directly with the Institute for Health Development. Let us also leave the ministry out of the way in this respect It is important that statistics reach the right place at the right time, i.e. also to the website as soon as possible. On the supervision side, it is certainly extremely important that the principles applied to supervision are the same. Given that it is also the responsibility of the Health Board to check other requirements relating to family medical practice, such as premises, it is reasonable that these functions are grouped together in a single institution. Of course, we assume that this also means a clearer and more comprehensible arrangement. Time will be discussed, but at least right now, all the parties involved are optimistic and see very clear benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U113	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U114	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. When analysing the current situation, it has to be said that local governments have dealt with it considerably more than rural governments. Most municipalities, or rural municipalities, have supported local family doctors from their budget by paying utilities and repairing premises. If we now move decision-making a little further, will this law improve access to family doctor services? Perhaps this is another step to transfer the rights and obligations of the counties to the capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U115	Thank you for your question. I agree with you one hundred percent that a very large number of municipalities have supported family doctors, and I am absolutely convinced that they will continue to. But there's no other choice. If we really want to have good family doctors in rural areas, it is often the municipalities that stand up for the well-being of their people and try to ensure that there is also a good family doctor. My recent visits to different areas of Estonia have shown that municipalities have helped their family doctors very seriously. At the same time, it should be noted that there are 804 lists in Estonia and a very large number of them are also in urban areas. Keeping all this organizational work coherent is relatively complex. In urban areas, it is easier for family doctors to manage than in rural areas, and so it is that when we look at new lists of family doctors, it is certainly easier to find family doctors in urban areas than in rural areas. The danger of one function disappearing from the land government, I can't see. As I said, no money will be taken away from rural governments and the social advisers of rural governments will be able to perform their other functions better. For example, adoption issues are extremely time-consuming issues, but often social advisers do not have time to deal with them very seriously because first-level family medical care or other medical care is also needed. In essence, people can now deal with these tasks, which are vital within the county, and this results in a purely win-win situation. County governments benefit from the fact that their specialists can deal with the things they have been appointed for, and the Health Board deals with the work of family doctors and other medical care. After all, access to medical care is a matter of national importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U116	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U117	Good meeting manager! Dear Minister, This question is not directly relevant to this bill, but it is also true. Has the Ministry also discussed how to coordinate the mediation of disabled supplies? The county authorities are busy with it now. There has also been a great deal of talk about this issue, however, that on the other hand, the state is not a good contracting authority if it does so through so many of the 15 counties that are currently providing this service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U118	I will try to answer very briefly. The short answer is: yes, we are dealing with disabled products, there are various plans. The Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre is a great help to us. A clear direction is that people should have an understandable system from which products can be obtained and that pricing for these products should be clear and transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U119	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is inspired by the question of Mr Glass. It's about somebody's work, that's about control. In 2010, the law obliged family doctors to enter the health data of persons in the health information system. If I remember correctly, a couple of weeks ago, when we were dealing with a law, it sounded like this obligation was not being fulfilled for 75 lists. Who should make sure that family doctors comply with the law? From 1 June on, this is essential, because then the levels of disability will be determined precisely by means of the health information system.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U121	I don't want to point my finger at anyone. Let's start with that. Right now, it's the land elders' job to supervise. But I also say that, of course, the priority of family doctors is to treat patients. For our part, we have added tasks to them to perform the functions of the state, as well as the functions required to serve patients, as is the provision of data on the health information system. Well, we'll try to find enough carrots to allow more and more patients to see their health data digitally and have control over who uses their health data. On the other hand, family doctors themselves should be interested in supplementing the health information system, which would reduce their extra work. The current situation is that, for example, the same system for determining disability, which the draft will soon be in the large hall, is a double job for family doctors. They provide data on the health information system and have to fill out separate forms for the Social Insurance Board. It is reasonable to motivate these data that have been transmitted once to the health information system, and do not need to do so again. I believe that this is a solid source of motivation that will encourage better supplementing the health information system for family doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U122	Rein Aidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Previous speakers, or rather questioners, have talked about the support given to family doctors, starting with rural governments and ending with local authorities. There was also talk about this in the Commission, but I wonder: how do family doctors themselves feel about the changes they are taking under this law? Aren't they afraid they'll lose that support?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U124	Thank you...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U125	Dear Minister, Good fellows! I'll take the manager's break for one minute because there's too much noise at the door. The hearing will be resumed at 2.43 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U126	Good fellows, the chairman's recess is over. It is 2.43 p.m. and it is a great honour for me to allow the debate on Bill 188 to continue. Please, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U127	As much as we have had conversations with family doctors, I have learned that they have been eagerly waiting for this draft, especially in view of the organisational aspects, the trans-regional lists, the size of the lists, the supervision issues, the existence of a single contact point or contact partner, etc. The GMP expressed its positive attitude towards this draft very clearly within the Commission and there should be no party to oppose it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U128	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present to you the discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs concerning the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act 188. The draft was discussed twice in the Committee on Social Affairs. First time s. March 19th, when the draft was presented by the Minister of Social Affairs. Anni Tooma, adviser to the Minister of Social Affairs, Pille Saar, adviser to the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Teet Torgo, legal adviser to the Legal Department also took part in the committee meeting. The same topic was discussed in the committee yesterday when the meeting was attended by Counsellor Pille Saar of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Legal Adviser Teet Torgo, Deputy Director General of the Health Board Üllar Kaljumäe, Chairman of the Board of Health Insurance Fund Hannes Danilov, Health Specialist Tiina Roosimägi and Lawyer Ragnar Kass. The Estonian Association of Family Doctors was represented by Diana Ingerainen, Chairwoman of the Board, and Katrin Martinson, Member of the Board. Since the minister introduced the bill, I wouldn't stop at it. However, I am talking about some aspects that have received attention from the Commission. At yesterday's meeting, the chairwoman of the board of the family doctors considered it necessary to recall that this bill was based on the initiative of the family doctors. Since 2008, they have already spoken about these issues and have proposed to the Minister directly to analyse the size and location of the lists of general practitioners in rural areas and to consider the possibility of merging them in order to ensure high-quality medical care for the rural population. The second point is that family doctors have pointed out that in order to attract family doctors to work in unpopular areas, mostly land, consideration could be given to bonus based on regional specificities. Alternatively, an increase in the current distance charge could be considered. And as a third point, they pointed out that, in order to ensure equal access to family medical care in all counties, they propose a legislative amendment that the provision of family medical care is in the future the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs or the Health Board instead of the county elder. It would also provide better opportunities for drawing up trans-regional lists, if necessary, and in this way for the organisation of family medical care. At yesterday's committee meeting, family doctors stressed that they are very pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs has followed these proposals and submitted the draft to the Riigikogu. One of the issues that gave the Commission a lively response is that the draft sets out the size of the list of family doctors and also that if the list is larger, how the Health Board will regulate it. There is a provision in the Act that says that 'if the number of persons included in the list of family doctors exceeds the limit of the list, the Health Board will determine the person on the basis of the address of the residence of the Estonian Population Register to the list of other family doctors, taking into account the size of the list. Upon application by a family doctor, the Health Board has the right to assign an uninsured person to another family doctor's list if more than 800 uninsured persons are included in the limit set out in subsection 41 (1) of this section. 'The question at the Commission was that if the list of family doctors is larger than the law allows, how will the division of the list take place in reality? Couldn't the same thing happen in Tallinn before the first classes were formed, moving to another area to get the right address to be with the right family doctor? At yesterday's meeting, the family doctors said they didn't see the danger. A number of family doctors' lists have already been pulverized and the family doctor has always discussed with his patients and asked if the doctor could be suitable for them to become a new family doctor. The Deputy Director-General of the Health Board also confirmed at yesterday's committee meeting that if there are one or two people above the norm, they would not force themselves to divert them. And, of course, people ask for their own opinion of where they want to be on the list. So that problem was taken away from us. The second issue which the Commission has drawn attention to has been addressed here again and again today. It's a question of how to define an unreasonablely long distance. It is stipulated that public transport must be reasonably organised, how can it be understood? And can the withdrawal of duties from rural governments not mean that cooperation with local authorities may be worse? The guests who attended yesterday's Commission meeting confirmed that they did not have these fears. It was pointed out that rural governments remain and that their duty is to serve local residents and cooperate with other public authorities. The members of the Commission had no further questions, and we took the following decisions: to send the draft 188 Chambers to first reading on 4 April, to finish the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments to 19 April. On behalf of the Commission, I was appointed rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U130	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. I'm sorry, Priit Onion, I can't ask three questions in this round. But it's a good thing you want to have a say on this. I believe that a good fellow official, Maret Maripuu, will certainly answer your third and fourth questions, but not in this form. Okay, no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Priit Sibula, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U131	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I largely support the draft under discussion, but my most important question is the same as I asked the Minister and what I wanted to discuss with my colleague Maret. It's a question of where these officials will be sitting in the future. On the one hand, we are not talking very seriously about administrative reform, on the other hand, we are doing it in a sneaky form. If 15 officials remain in rural governments and 8 officials are taken to the Health Board, 5 to R&D&I, or more specifically 3 officials, because 2 remain in rural government, I feel that there is not so much work. Sooner or later, it's likely that they're gonna tighten up somewhere. The Minister said that the county government officials are doing a lot of work to collect and transmit statistics, mediate invalids, etc., so that's where the contraction will finally come. I have a suggestion to all colleagues, especially members of the Social Affairs Committee, that, when the draft is being processed, perhaps by the end of the third reading, we will have a clear understanding of how these officials will be located in Estonia. I certainly do not believe that there should be four regions in Estonia. I think there could be at least 15 of them, and we could discuss which officials and where we could work, because much of this work goes on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U132	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for tabling 188 amendments on 19 April 2012 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U133	Let us move to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on public service initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu! I'm asking you to give the Minister 30 minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, as has been the case with the Ministry of Justice's drafts, I would like to say that this is a very good bill. I am sure that this bill will have much to say in this Chamber and a longer debate. A little over ten years ago, more specifically, on 27 March 2002 the Minister of Justice Märt Rask spoke on the floor. The first reading of the draft law on the Civil Service Act took place. Märt Rask said in his presentation: "During the six years of the law, modern governance principles have also been adopted in the public sector. The gaps in the current law and the provisions that are not applicable have been identified. It can be said that the current legal framework has started to hinder the development of the public service. To be more precise, circumvention of the Civil Service Act has become generally acceptable in the public sector. The main objective of the draft law on public service initiated by the Government of the Republic is to create frameworks for the emergence of modern public service and to make the organisation of public service salaries transparent. ' I am very pleased that there are more delegates in the Chamber today than there were in 2002, when there were 11. This, too, shows the growing importance of the subject. Now I'm going to introduce you to the new draft law on public service and start, as usual, with a goal. In short, that is what it sounds like. The purpose of the drafting of the new Civil Service Act is to modernise the legal regulation of the public service and to bring it into line with the internationally recognised general principles of the public service and employment contract law. The current Civil Service Act does not meet today's needs and does not support the development of the public service, as it is too rigid and at times over-regulating. In the programme of the Prosamaa and Res Publica parties and the Estonian Reform Party's Government Union, the Government Union considers it important to reduce the number of officials with special status and rights in the modernisation of public administration, to align these benefits with the benefits offered by the private sector and to make the public service modernly dynamic. To this end, the programme provides for the following:'(a) to adopt a new Civil Service Act which organises the public service by making it transparent and comparable the use of the public sector's pay system and benefits; (b) to fill the posts in the public service and on the management boards of state-owned companies by means of a competitive procedure and to encourage the movement of qualified personnel between the public and private sectors; (c) to reduce the number of people employed in the public sector by introducing new technologies and more efficient working arrangements, not at the expense of the quality of services; (d) to consolidate the implementation of the Public Service Act as well as the responsibility and competence for coordinating the activities of the state as an employer in the Ministry of Finance. ' In 2011, a new version of the draft Civil Service Act was prepared at the Ministry of Justice, based on the principles of the above-mentioned government union programme. The draft Civil Service Act has been drafted in the spirit of good lawmaking principles and has already been discussed in depth with partners since April 2011. The draft was co-ordinated in e-law, meetings were held with representatives of other ministries, the State Chancellery, trade unions and local authorities. The Government Office discussed the Civil Service Act three times and the draft was approved on 1 March 2012. I will now look at the main changes made to the draft. Since I cannot stop at all the details because of the time constraints, I think I will limit myself to the main. Firstly, those who clearly do not exercise public authority are excluded from the list of officials, thus reducing the number of officials. At present, official status is defined on an institutional basis. In most cases, all those working in the authorities are officials, whether or not they exercise public authority. According to § 7 of the draft law, the definition of an official is amended by the current Civil Service Act. An official is a person who is in a public service and trust relationship with the State or with a local authority. The importance of a relationship of trust has been particularly emphasised in the draft. Working as an official differs in nature from working in the private sector. Officials serve the entire nation on the basis of the public interest, not the private interest, or the guidelines of a particular party. Officials have the power to exercise powers, such as ordering and prohibiting other people, as well as the imposition of coercive measures which are not the competence of persons working in private relations. Giving such a power involves the need for a special relationship of trust. Officials must be guided primarily by constitutional order; they must be credible, honest and ethical. Disciplinary proceedings may be brought against an official in the event of a breach of a relationship of trust. The draft aims to highlight those areas where only officials can work. The draft also lists those jobs that obviously should not be employed by officials, as their work does not differ in nature from work in the private sector. Such staff include, for example, accountants, staff, managers, procurement specialists, administrative staff, information technicians and other persons involved in assistive work, for example, political advisors of the Minister. The reduction in the number of officials does not mean the loss of jobs, but rather that people who perform general functions, i.e. functions that support the exercise of public authority, will work under the Employment Contracts Act. This means that they are also free from restrictions on officials. If, in the interests of safeguarding and developing public authority, certain activities cannot be conferred solely on a person who is in a private relationship with the public authority, the bill also allows that person to be recruited as an official. Such a provision has been included in the draft in order to give greater freedom to decide whether to become an official or to become an employee. From the point of view of the right to strike, international treatment also distinguishes between an official exercising public authority on behalf of the State and a person who does not exercise such power, but merely contributes to it and advises the public authorities. The strike ban is justified only for officials exercising power on behalf of the State. As a result of the reform, the number of officials may be 21000 to 22000 instead of the current 28000 in the future. Against this background, there were 28340 officials in 2010, with 5,171 officials in the local authorities. The decrease in the number of officials and the increase in the number of people employed in employment contracts will in the longer term provide an opportunity to better organise the work of the institutions and to combine their support functions. For example, not every institution needs to have its own IT man and accountant, but these services can be provided across several institutions. The Civil Service Act extends only to officials; the employment relationships of persons employed under an employment contract are governed by the Employment Contracts Act. The new Civil Service Act regulates the legal status of officials. The employment relationships of employees in public authorities are governed by the Employment Contracts Act and other laws governing employment relationships. The draft Civil Service Act does not provide exceptions to the Employment Contracts Act for persons working in employment contracts. It is not justified to grant derogations because the exceptions would create a third category of employees in the public service, which would be partly like ordinary employees and partly civil servants. Secondly, I would like to point out that equal access to posts is guaranteed for all by introducing the compulsory nature of competitions. The practice of implementing the Civil Service Act has revealed that the procedure for public competitions governed by the law is abnormally low and that public competitions are not trusted. The main problems of the competition have become very strict rules of procedure at the level of the law and the real risk of failure of the competition. International organisations and evaluators have recommended by law to ensure a level playing field for public service. The selection of officials must be guaranteed by a fair and open competition and be based on competence. In order to ensure that persons have equal access to official positions and the choice is based on competence, the draft provides for an obligation to organise a competition. According to the draft, the vacancy is normally filled by open competition. Only in certain exceptional cases may the public announcement of the competition be waived if there are reasonable grounds to believe that it would be more appropriate to organise an internal competition or to fill the post by rotation. Rotation has been described here as a conventional transfer. As an update, the draft proposal envisages a regulation on the temporary transfer as a step towards the establishment of the rotation system recommended in the 2011 OECD Governance Report. The rotation is implemented according to the draft for better performance of the functions, experience and better organisation of the work of the authorities. There are exceptions to the vacancy status for senior civil service managers. The posts of top managers shall be filled only by means of a public call for proposals. Thirdly, a clear and fair pay system will be created. In Estonia's current civil service wage system, there is no transparency and logic due to the large amount of additional fees and the time-bound wage structure. In addition, differences between institutions in the implementation of the variable share of fixed wages and salaries and the high share of the latter in the total salary of an official are a problem. This creates a situation where wage security in the public service is significantly lower than in the rest of the labour market, because changing the variable part of wages, including reducing wages, is easier for the institution than changing the fixed part. Nor is the pay system transparent to the public, as the remuneration of all officials is not public. For the public, however, it is just as important as for officials to know who gets paid and what kind of work. The aim of the draft is to increase the transparency and comparability of the public authorities' remuneration systems, to create a basic wage guarantee for the official, to reduce the rigidity of the wage system and the administrative burden. To this end, the draft reduces the number of wage components, limits them, imposes the obligation to classify posts, abolishes the central salary structure and imposes an obligation on the Minister of Finance to report to the Riigikogu once a year on the salaries of officials and employees. For the simplicity, clarity and transparency of the pay system, it is important that an official receives regular remuneration in the form of a basic salary for the performance of his basic duties, as laid down in the code of conduct and which constitute his workload. To put it even more simply, the official's salary, which he was assigned to work and what he would get for a good job, is 100% of his basic salary. In certain cases, the manager can set an additional fee of up to 20% for an official as a management instrument. To ensure that it does not become massive, it would still only be intended for those situations when someone is doing something special, for example, carrying out additional duties, or if someone has extraordinary service achievements for which a bonus should be paid, it will be limited to the budget each year. Our proposal is that variable wages should be paid at most 5% of the agency's wage fund. In this way, drivers will retain the flexibility to motivate employees, but it will end, which has also been referred to in the cases as the thickness of the premiums. In addition, civil servants' salaries become public. As of 2015, the basic salary, variable remuneration and other revenue arising from the functions of the official shall be disclosed on the central website of the public service. Wages will be made public on public authorities' websites until 2015. An additional period for the implementation of this provision is necessary for the development of a technical application. I admit that the public disclosure of civil servants' salaries was perhaps the biggest debate in the debate on the Civil Service Act. I am in favour of the public, and I am pleased that we have reached such a compromise. I consider this an important principle. Fourthly, I would point out that the benefits of officials are being aligned with those of the private sector. In Estonia, the general public service has become an open system and therefore the elements of the current career system are not compatible with the nature of the system. The draft amends the focus of the incentive package by channelling resources from non-directly non-work-related fees and benefits to performance and additional wage-related fees. The benefits of officials have been brought closer to those of the private sector. The period of annual leave of officials shall not change. The difference from the current Civil Service Act is that additional days of leave due to public service leave, which are currently up to 10 calendar days, are waived. The proposal no longer provides for the possibility to increase pensions on the basis of years of service. However, the implementing provisions provide that persons who continue to work in the public service are to continue to serve five years in order to increase their national retirement pension. The possibility of providing an official with an employer's dwelling is waived and compensation for the use of another dwelling is also waived. In the event of dismissal as a result of redundancy, the official shall be compensated for the average salary of one month. For the rest, as provided for by the new Employment Contracts Act, unemployment benefit is paid to an official in the event of redundancy in accordance with the provisions of the Unemployment Insurance Act. Thus, compared to the current Public Service Act, the amount of redundancy benefits has been significantly reduced. Fifthly, the Minister responsible for the Civil Service is appointed. The authority responsible for the public service will be the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance prepares development plans, directs sectoral policies and coordinates development. The Ministry of Finance also organises the management of the state's human resources and payroll database. It is also noted that the Minister of Finance provides the Riigikogu once a year with an overview of developments in the public service, occupations and jobs, persons in service and working, their salaries and salaries by authorities and groups of services. The sixth point that we consider to be very important is family friendliness. Today's public service should certainly be family - friendly and provide protection for a parent raising a small child. This, too, is an important value for me, which was also important to the coalition partners and is hardly less important to other parties in the Riigikogu. Provisions have been included to strengthen the family and child-friendliness of the law, such as protection against dismissal due to inadequacy and dismissal in the case of an official who is pregnant or raising a child under three years of age. In a concentration situation, priority is given to a person who raises a child under seven years of age. In the event of dismissal, the parent who is pregnant and raises a child under seven years of age is entitled to a higher benefit. In the event of a release from the service, a pregnant woman and a person who raises a child under seven years of age shall be entitled to be reinstated. In addition, an exception is provided for a parent raising a child of up to three years in the case of on-call time, overtime and night time and public holiday work. Now, briefly, other changes that this draft could consider to be important. The bureaucratic accreditation will be abolished. It has been replaced by a more flexible development and evaluation system already in place in many institutions. Development and evaluation discussions shall review the achievements and objectives of the official. A provision has been included in the draft act stating that the appointment of the Secretary of State, the Chancellor of the Ministry, the Deputy Chancellor, the Director of the State Chancellery and the Head of the Government Office will be for a fixed period of five years. A legal basis shall be established to compensate for the costs of long-term and resource-intensive training when an official leaves the service. The arrangements for missions, including external missions, have been amended and there has been an addition to the regulation of the remuneration of spouses, which is not covered by the current Civil Service Act, and which is primarily used in the External Action Service. Following the proposals made by the Ministry of Social Affairs on pension reform, the draft provides for the payment of compensation in the event of loss of working capacity in instalments, on the basis of an expert opinion. The amount of the benefit remains the same. The restrictions on the activity of officials stem from the Anti-Corruption Act. We can still look at the division of the anti-corruption law between operating restrictions and the Civil Service Act during the procedure at the Commission. The number of persons subject to a strike ban shall be reduced. According to the current regulation, strikes are prohibited in all government agencies and other state bodies and local government agencies, as well as in the defence forces and national defence organisations, courts and rescue agencies. The new law will reduce the number of people with strike restrictions. According to the draft Civil Service Act, the strike ban applies only to officials. The part of disciplinary liability, such as one type of disciplinary offence, has been amended. The types of disciplinary sanctions have been reduced: reprimand, reduction of basic salary up to 30% for up to six months and dismissal. Forms of guilt have been added, the provisions on disciplinary proceedings have been substantially improved and clarified. Currently, part of the regulation of disciplinary liability derives from the Public Service Act, part of the Staff Disciplinary Liability Act. According to the bill, all regulation is in one place. The concept of suspension of a service relationship has been removed from the draft as compared to the current Civil Service Act, since the service relationship does not actually stop and the official is still an official, if in certain cases his right to exercise public authority is suspended. Consequently, a completely new chapter explaining the concept of suspension of the right to exercise public authority has been included in the draft, setting out the grounds for suspension of the right to exercise public authority and explaining how it should be formalised. The rules on dismissal, including redundancy, have been clarified and supplemented. The deadlines for notice of dismissal have been changed. The current Public Service Act provides for one month for this purpose. In the draft act, notice of redundancy has been made dependent on the time spent in the public service, which is set at 15 to 90 calendar days. Due to the lack of cooperation between the Minister and the Chancellor, the Chancellor may be relieved of his service after a period of six months of cooperation; the current Civil Service Act provides for a one-year obligation to cooperate. The same is true of the compensation to be paid to the Chancellor in the event of the release. The same regulation applies to farmers. The part of the right of appeal has changed in the draft compared to the current Civil Service Act. The regulation of renunciation has been abandoned. Only an official who is pregnant at the time of dismissal, who is entitled to maternity leave or who is raising a child under seven years of age, shall be entitled, in the event of unlawful dismissal, to require re-initiation instead of compensation. The draft provides for a national register of staff and salaries. The bill no longer provides for a reserve of officials. Before I complete my report, I note that the new Civil Service Act does not change many of the principles arising from special laws, such as the Law on Security Authorities, the Police and Border Guard Act, the Law on Prosecutors' Office, the Rescue Service Act, the Law on External Action Service and the Prisoning Act. On the need for changes to the Defence League, we repeatedly asked both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance. Based on these answers, the new Civil Service Act does not include the Defence League. At this point, I will make a point in my report. Finally, as the initiator of the draft, the Government of the Republic, I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading of the draft today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U135	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U136	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The draft, and certainly the implementing decisions, provide that the Ministry of Finance will play a central role in the development of the public service. How did this idea come about, and were there other options? After the implementation of this bill, does the Ministry of Finance need additional resources to deal with this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U138	Thank you. I guess we've had these discussions before. We discussed this quite a bit before the coalition agreement was made, and we discussed it now. Do you need additional resources? I know there's a lot of people out there doing it, and there's good, qualified people working there. Whether they need additional resources is something they need to assess for themselves. But the general advice of the experts is that someone should be responsible for the public service in a complex way and that they should be involved in developing it. Why the Ministry of Finance? Just because one important part of this draft is making the salary data comparable and public, coming to the Riigikogu and making it visible to you and the public. Responding with a well-known slogan: who else? I think the Ministry of Finance is a pretty logical choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U139	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Compared to the current situation, the new Public Service Act provides that the members of the council of the local government unit, the members of the municipal and municipal administration and the district and district elders are excluded from the regulation of this law. The explanatory memorandum explains that the reason is that they carry out tasks of a political nature. However, they also take administrative decisions, decide on plans and such things. Do you have a few words to explain the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U141	Thank you. We have already addressed this issue once. That's what Kalev Kallo asked, if I remember correctly. For the members of municipal and municipal authorities, the additional regulation will be in KOKS, which will indicate which rules and provisions apply when performing their role. I think that this needs to be clarified, because it has caused questions on quite a number of occasions. We are in the middle of communication with local governments. I think we'll get valuable information from the municipalities, and then we'll specify it. But the KOKS's gonna have to be specified. I'm sure you can't combine being mayor with being an official. We have foreseen that there will be a special regulation of the mayor of KOKS, analogously, I will simply freely bring parallels, with the special regulations of the Chancellor of Justice or the Auditor General. But we'll specify that. I think that we will provide an additional overview and material so that it is equally understandable for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U142	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The associations of local governments have pointed out, and evidently communicated to you, the concern that the implementation of this draft as a law will entail a number of additional costs. As I understood from the answer to the previous question, negotiations are still ongoing. If the law applies in 2013, have you considered providing additional resources in the 2013 budget to cover the costs incurred by the municipalities (e.g. the work of officials in connection with the reorganisation of the implementation of the law or the compensation paid to officials if they do not agree to enter into an employment contract and have to be terminated)?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U144	Thank you. The right answer is that we have not foreseen any extra money for this. The transition to the new law is not likely to lead to costs as much as you imagine or the municipalities would imagine. The review of the compositions shall be carried out either way. But we can certainly discuss it with the local governments. We are not in the middle of negotiations; we are in the middle of discussions and consultations. These relate, for example, to what was asked by Kalev Lillo, how exactly are the boundaries of an official and political person within the municipality, etc. If necessary, we can specify that. I saw a letter from the municipalities today, a reference to the fact that the issue of money is still a matter of concern for the municipalities. Well, we'll have to look at the cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U145	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! These issues were discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and can also be dealt with during the next presentation, but I think it might be useful if, in the course of the first reading, the Minister nevertheless states how the initiators of the draft have seen the prospect of adopting this law in time. I mean, the length of time that could last before this law came into force, provided that this law is passed in the Riigikogu. Officials also have the principle of legal expectation. How has this principle been applied in relation to civil servants' allowances, which are in the current ATS and which are also partially retained by the new ATS?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U147	Thank you very much, Minister, for your thorough presentation. You have many questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U148	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns § 59 'Agent's strike ban'. This paragraph also states that an official must not strike, that an official must not participate in other service-related pressure actions that interfere with the performance of the authority. I want to know exactly what these pressures are. For example, if, in their spare time, the rescuers demand a higher salary to the Home Office, is a form of pressure they should not participate in? Is an opinion article in which the official draws attention to the strange use of money by the heads of a public authority allowed, even though it puts pressure on this authority's press?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U149	Thank you. There is certainly no limit to anyone's freedom of expression by drawing attention to something. I believe you also understand that this cannot be the purpose of the bill. We have repeatedly emphasised in the preparation of the draft, and in my presentation today I have also stressed that the number of persons subject to strike restrictions will decrease as the number of officials will decrease. However, the strike limit remains valid for officials. Here, however, there are service-related pressures that interfere with the activities of the administration. They result from the ability to exploit the exercise of power to interfere with the work of the authority. These are certainly not part of the opinion articles.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U150	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U151	Thank you. Kadri has asked my question, but I will ask another, not less important, question. In the case of redundancy of an official, a different redundancy allowance is provided for in the old or still existing ATS. As an ex-ATS official, I dare say that the fact that these benefits had to be paid from the budget of the administration often held the head of the institution back from all kinds of footage games within the institution. In the case of the new ATS, all this unemployment insurance will be borne and the head of the administration will in essence have no need to reconsider his dismissal decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U152	Thank you. It sounded more like an argument, not a question. No, I don't think so. Many municipalities have asked for the rules on lay-off in the future in the course of the public service law. The rules on redundancy are essentially analogous to those in the Employment Contracts Act: in fact, there is greater social protection for those who have been in the service longer. This is similar to the situation in the private sector or regulations in the Employment Contracts Act. That has been the purpose of this law. If a person has a longer period of experience, he or she must be notified more in advance or paid more. In no way can redundancy become irresponsible. It still has a clear financial output for this institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U153	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U154	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that the long-awaited law has reached the Riigikogu. I hope this formation will be able to adopt it. My question concerns the rotation of officials, especially top officials, the Chancellors and Vice Chancellors, and their career opportunities, not only in vertical movement, but also in horizontal movement. Does the new law make it possible to move better between public authorities or how can the world view of these good officials be expanded within the public sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U155	Thank you. I am very pleased that this bill has arrived because the differences between the two related laws, the Employment Contracts Act and the Public Service Act are reduced. My question is as follows. The new Employment Contracts Act also provides for a number of new, modern forms of work. Should teleworking opportunities be regulated at law level in the public service? How do you see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U156	Thank you. I can't even tell. I believe that public service is an example of innovation and, with all of this, certainly. I think this is about support services, because many support services do not have to be provided when sitting on the ground. But when it comes to the exercise of public authority, especially perhaps a slightly more critical function, it is important to review how much more flexible forms of work can be applied there. However, I do not rule out the use of them in the public service. After all, this is a reasonable undertaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U157	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We heard the bill went to the ministries for coordination. But I wonder whether the trade unions also expressed their views on this draft and if they did so, what their comments or suggestions were.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U159	Thank you. I personally met with trade union representatives twice. They had some comments. I am not saying that the trade unions consider this bill to be ideal. You can ask them for an exact list of comments, but their main point, which I think has also been made public by Harri Tali, and the main point of the debate was the question of the strike restriction. The union leader, Harri Tali, said that I also saw it on the news that he felt that a new civil service law was needed and that a new wage system and wage management were undoubtedly progress. At least that's the impression I got from the story. Trade unions certainly also admit that the number of people with strike restrictions will decrease, as this restriction will only be for those who exercise public authority in the future. Trade unions, however, would like the number of these people to be even lower. That was their main criticism. Trade unions also want those exercising public authority to have, at least in some respects, the right to strike. As you can see, this bill is quite thick, weighs one and a half pounds. In our nuances, we will certainly find more places where trade unions have different opinions. But they can also express that opinion to the legislator. I think you'll hear it soon enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U160	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U161	Thank you very much. I'm joining the pleasures, too. As a mid-term comment on the strike, the law on rescue services came out of the Civil Service Act a little earlier with new ideas and rescuers are not currently officials. I don't know if there's that answer in this thick bill somewhere, but if it stays the way it was answered, the rescuers will be able to strike. But very many of these 28000 officials do not feel affected by this bill, because they have all kinds of special laws and regulations. We're working on the Defence Service Act right now. I see not only the differences in this text, but also the identity, perhaps trying to distance themselves from this draft. How many people really only have to regulate this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U162	Thank you. That's a pretty complicated question. I can assure you that, before Secretary of Defense Laar got sick, we met on this subject and he personally confirmed that the Ministry proceeds from the same spirit that they are trying to follow the principles of the Civil Service Act. If there's some really big slingshots, I'm sure it's worth a look at. The Civil Service Act does not change many of the principles arising from specific laws. The list is about this: the Security Authorities Act, the Police and Border Guard Act, the Prosecutor's Office Act, the Rescue Services Act, the External Action Service Act and the Prisoning Act. I cannot even say the exact number today, but many regulations under special laws do not really concern this bill. It's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U163	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U164	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Paragraph 15 of the draft law states that a person who is a spouse of an official directly controlling the relevant position or a partner in a relationship similar to that of marriage may not be taken into service. Can we assume that the same-sex partners are also used here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U165	Thank you. It says it's a life partner. Whatever way you can define a life partner, that depends on your fantasy. It's also a question of two old boys living together, whether they're partners. We have written it here to avoid possible risks of corruption. It is likely that this will also have to be monitored in the exercise of office. These are not only spouses but also partners, so apparently same-sex persons in a relationship similar to marriage are also included here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U166	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U167	Good luck, Minister, on the bill. I'm not going to ask questions about the sections I don't like here. I'm asking about basic, more important things. For another five years, people will be able to build up a career for the pension supplement, after which this opportunity will be lost. People who later enter the service will not be paid a pension supplement for working in the public service. Did the government also discuss alternatives that could be offered instead, whether or not the employer's additional insurance? If he did, why did they give it up? Do you think that a certain increase in pensions, whether in this way or in some new, more modern way, should no longer attract people to public service?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U168	Thank you. This is quite a fundamental philosophical question as to whether or not this law is needed. We believe that, since public service and official work are based on a particular relationship of trust, there are rights of public authority and enforcement, at least for the time being, a separate law on public service is needed. I don't know about the future, I don't rule it out. There are countries where all this is regulated in a completely different way. You can imagine that. But today, however, we are making a new law on the civil service in the knowledge that it is necessary and necessary in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U169	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U170	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I agree with the law; I also think there are too many public servants in Estonia. But my question is more about the people who, now and in the future, will not fit under the protective wing of this Civil Service Act. There are a number of agencies, public authorities or implementing bodies where employees' salaries are not public and a declaration of economic interest is not to be filled in. Do you consider it legally possible, and are you prepared to support the public pay of those who, regardless of their employment relationship, receive remuneration from the taxpayer? It is likely that some of them should also be extended to the obligation to comply with a declaration of economic interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U171	Thank you. You referred to a declaration of financial interests. In fact, the Riigikogu also has a new draft anti-corruption law in its proceedings. It sets out very clearly who is the official who must make the declaration and in what manner and which part of that declaration is public. I appreciate the new anti-corruption law as a clear step forward, as it creates an electronic register that saves time and reduces administrative burdens. Anyone who wishes can see the economic interests of different officials. This includes those institutions that have been discussed before in the Riigikogu, such as RMK. As far as the public is concerned about the use of taxpayers' money, I have been in favour both of doing this draft and of general support that the money that comes from the taxpayer, which is used to pay wages or something else, is public. Of course, here is the limit that this may be something that, for some reason (e.g. security), must be protected and concealed. I am in favour of the greater public, and I would therefore make different choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U172	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U173	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Paragraph 15 states that a competition may not be organised if there are reasonable grounds to believe that a vacancy can be filled by means of a temporary transfer of an official. From now on, it has been said that this deadline can be set twice. Tell me, please, whether in this case it must also be stated that this person is a performer and what it means to be a performer under this law. I didn't find anything here about it. At the same time, we know that in some municipalities, for example, the head of the office has been a performer for years. Does this law provide any basis for this? Finally, when a person has been in office for two periods, does the law allow me just not to find this place, so to speak, to transfer him to the main place without a competition, which I think would make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U174	There were a lot of questions now. First of all, you asked a previous question about your partner. It was § 15, but now you're probably thinking of § 16. The general principle of this law is that competitions must be preferred. There are certain posts that cannot be filled without a competition. The alternative to public competitions, if simply explained, is internal competitions. To give an example, the Ministry of Justice recently announced an internal competition for the head of the prison in Tartu. The internal competition means that it takes place within the correction system and, for example, the National Defence Academy was informed about it. To this we have added, in the course of the procedure of the draft, if I remember correctly (I hope I remember correctly), the possibility, on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, that if the competition fails to fill the place, the competition will fail, then the performer can be appointed to perform this place. The Actor works for a certain time. It says here, you can look at it more closely later. When this time is up, it must be decided whether a new competition will come or whether the person will be appointed. This is an approximate description, but it can be looked at further in the course of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U175	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The list in paragraph 7 'Official and employee' certainly excludes some of the offices currently available in local governments, such as press secretaries or entire press departments. Who, then, will assess whether it is an official or a person working under an employment contract?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U177	Actually, this distribution right here is given. If you simply distribute it, those people who exercise public authority, do some kind of policy or something like that here you will find the list here, are officials, and everyone who performs supporting functions will continue to work on the basis of a contract of employment. This means (a sample list is also provided here) that accountants, information specialists and even ministerial advisers could be employed on the basis of an employment contract. This distinction has been made quite clear and simple. I'm sure all the authorities will have to review it. It was pointed out that there is a point here that says that if someone is doing a job that cannot only be done on the basis of a private relationship, because it does not sufficiently ensure that state authority is secured, it is also possible to call this person an official. To say no, there are currently fewer than 5% of those who work for the public service under the contract of employment, and in the future they would be 20% to 25%. So this distribution is going to be something like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U178	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U179	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, first of all, thank you for a very substantive and constructive debate, both this morning and now in this Chamber. My question concerns the possible future situation in the local government. The current KOKS states that the mandate of a council member ends with his appointment as an official of the same municipality or city municipality, but in the new situation, according to the new ATS, one part of the people working in the municipality government are employed on the basis of an employment contract, such as accountants. Can a person who is an accountant in a rural municipality government on the basis of an employment contract be a member of a rural municipality council in the future? Or is it your view that, in the future, COKS should be changed in this respect, it should be supplemented by the point that the prohibition of being a member of the council is not only for officials but also for staff working under a contract of employment in the institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U180	Thank you. I think it is one of those things that we can clarify a little in the process. There are still places (you know this, and I know it) where there are possible interferences with interests. I think it's one of those places, too. I think that this should be discussed in greater detail. We are ready to open up the matter in the Commission and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U181	Thank you. This was an important principle that we addressed in the course of this draft. It is a rotational principle, which provides that people with appropriate skills can move to another ministry or to another administration and that, if necessary, they can move forward. It's kind of a conventional transfer. In addition, I think that it opens up the entire public service quite significantly, both outward and inward. This principle that public competitions, including internal competitions, are being organised reveals that a post is about to be released, and it reveals to those who organise the competitions who might be interested in these competitions. As life expectancy increases and labour force increases, we have given great importance to this bill so that people can test themselves more in public service, exercise themselves and look for new tasks. It certainly doesn't make it less honorable when someone does 40 years of what he's really good at, and he does it in a philigranate way. In this respect, I would not be condescending, but this principle opens up public service much more.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U182	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U183	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased that exactly one year after we took office, such an excellent draft has come before us. Through the media, I have realised that this draft is very good in the sense that it makes the public service much more open and transparent. But I would like to know in what sense this bill is very good for a civil servant himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U184	Thank you. This is also a very important issue. I think that the pay system, which is open, transparent and clear, is particularly important to a civil servant himself. I don't think it's good for an official to be dependent on the boss's ability to look for different extras. I have publicly admitted this before that, in fact, the new system may mean some wage harmonisation, the pressure to raise lower wages. I think it's very important. Another thing that I also emphasised here, and which has been quite important to the coalition, I believe that there is not even a coalition and opposition boundary here, is the protection of parents raising a small child. If the Estonian state spends a lot of money every year to be family-friendly and child-friendly, then the public service could serve as an example here. Openness and the principle of rotation are certainly very important for officials and those in the public service. I think that there are quite a lot of advantages here for those who want to work in the public service for a long time and who are interested in new challenges, just as for younger people who have young children and who therefore need more protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U185	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U186	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased that you mentioned in your report that, in making this draft law, you followed the principles of good lawmaking. But my question is whether this bill will result in some kind of financial savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U187	Thank you. Indeed, we have followed the principles of good lawmaking. Since April last year, we have tried to discuss this draft with all the parties, and we will probably do so again and again in the course of the work. Are there any financial savings? I think that, although the aim of this draft is not financial savings, one possible source of financial savings is a more effective development of support services. Not only do we see it in the law, but we already act on the basis of our thoughts and words; actions often go beyond words. Let me give you an example. The Ministry of Justice has transferred the Courts' Accounting Centre to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance recently published a press release in which he proudly announced that for the first time in Estonian history, one ministry provides such a service to another. I think there's a reason to be proud. The joint provision of support services will, in my view, bring significant financial savings. We don't do our real estate exactly the same way. I think the Ministry of Justice is quite close to transferring all real estate management and maintenance to State Real Estate AS, which does it perfectly. After all, we all understand that not every institution has to have ten IT specialists, but these specialists may be common to several institutions. This will certainly provide clear savings in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U188	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U189	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, This bill is certainly very much needed to modernize the public service. This bill is also important for the administration. One of the values on which a public service should be based is trust. For me, the relationship between Chancellor and Minister and County Elder and Regional Minister is important. In the event of non-cooperation, the Chancellor may now be dismissed in one year's time, but this time is shortened to six months. Please tell me what made this change!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U190	Thank you. We also discussed this regulation with the parties concerned. I didn't notice any feedback from the Chancellors or anyone else that would be unusual. As you yourself said, there is a very important relationship of trust here. In the case of dismissal, there is a very clear financial compensation. If these people have been working together for six months, but cooperation is not working out, then there is a very clear material compensation in case of release. To assume that these people will no longer be competitive on the labour market after six months of cooperation is, in my opinion, unfair. It's a question of choice. If you find that there should be a year here instead of six months, then as a representative of the people, you will, of course, be able to make such an amendment. We found that six months is quite enough. Six months will also ensure that if, for example, the government changes, there is enough time to ensure stability, the government can live in and it is actually clear whether cooperation will work out. We appreciated that time by it.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U191	Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U192	Thank you for your congratulations. I believe that, as usual, they are completely sincere. I see this support in the form of constructive criticism here and yet. I will answer this question very briefly. As I have said before, I think that the times have passed in Estonia when, instead of a decent salary, there were other benefits to offer. I think that the aim should be for people to receive such a salary, so that they have the ability and opportunity to secure their future through one or the other pension instrument. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U193	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U194	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! At the beginning of the draft, a number of posts to which the Civil Service Act does not apply have been identified. My question concerns the members of the municipal or municipal administration. They shall be put in place by the council in accordance with a political agreement. The way it used to be, after they had settled down, getting their vacations, working arrangements, and all that stuff to ATS, now it's out of ATS. Are they going under the Employment Contracts Act now? I mean that they have been politically determined by the council, but which law will govern their daily work, rest and working hours, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U195	Thank you. The short answer is KOKS, or the Local Government Organisation Act, but the longer answer is that there will be more provisions governing the work of the members of the municipality and city administration than the current regulation. If he's an official, official status comes from ATS. It depends on what role he is playing. It has also been said that the mayor cannot be an official, these are mutually exclusive roles. However, given that this question has been asked quite a number of times and we are in the middle of communication with representatives of local authorities, I think that, in the course of the draft procedure, we should complete it and clarify it so that everyone understands it in the same way. This morning, too, when we met with the Central Party Group, this issue came up again. I think we're going to make an additional explanation here to make it unambiguous.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U196	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U197	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We were talking about local governments. The representatives of the municipalities are very concerned when reading this bill that the government will have a clear role and opportunity to intervene in the wage and composition policies of the municipalities. On the one hand, it is certainly contrary to the principle of the general sovereignty of local governments, but there may also be a clear violation of the Estonian Constitution. Have you discussed this and do you see a problem here?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U198	Thank you. I'm not gonna look for this place in the law. In my opinion, the law says that it extends to them, not to them, rather than to violate the principle of self-regulation, i.e. the principle of autonomy of the municipality. This is what we have written down, and this is what we have discussed at meetings with representatives of local governments and local governments. It can certainly be made clear in the course of the procedure of the law that municipalities and constitutional institutions are still able to organise their own lives and that the law extends to them in so far as it does not violate the right to self-regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U199	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U200	Thank you. Dear Minister, Both officials and persons working under employment contracts raise young children, such as children under three years of age or under seven years of age. I am very pleased that there are certain guarantees for these parents at the workplace. I mean, it's not easy to get rid of them. But when we look at the new Employment Contracts Act, which came into force in 2009, it is very easy to get rid of both pregnant women and parents of children under the age of three under this law. In a good case, you can get a six-month pay allowance. My question is: have you also considered amending the Employment Contracts Act, so that these future mothers and parents of young children would feel more confident at the workplace, and that even if the child was born, they would have where to go to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U201	Thank you. To begin with, today we are working on the law on public service. Our choice has been to give such protection to families and parents raising a small child in the Civil Service Act. If this bill is approved by the legislator and these principles come to life, then, I think, we can discuss everything else, including whether the same protection should be in the Employment Contracts Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U202	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! § 61 of the draft law states that the basic salary of an official may be reduced unilaterally if the reduction does not exceed a percentage by which the budget of the authority is reduced. Imagine that last year the Authority was undergoing overhaul and the budget was 30% higher. Due to the logic of the draft, wages could be unilaterally reduced by 30% this year. Is this perhaps about the payroll, not the agency's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U204	Thank you. I think it's our duty to be precise. Of course, during the reading of the law in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, it is difficult to keep track of everything, but I say once again that it has been written here that the basic salary of an official must not be reduced unilaterally. Unilaterally, the basic salary may be reduced only if the following conditions are met: These conditions are set out here: if there is a general economic downturn and a reduction in the budget of the authority is necessary to maintain confidence in the economic environment and if the wage reduction does not exceed the percentage by which the budget of the authority is reduced. It rather protects officials. At the moment, it has been possible to take away the extra charges even during the crisis, which has reduced the actual income of civil servants. It is now stipulated in what way this is even possible. Of course, we are all working to ensure that the Estonian economy can do as well as possible and thus the state budget will do as well as possible, but now it is stipulated that in which case the official's salary may be reduced at all. In my opinion, the new law gives the official a much more secure guarantee of his basic salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U205	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The new law eliminates the possibility of re-initiation in the event of unlawful dismissal. What does this mean, for example, for the Chancellors of Ministries? Until now, Chancellors have been people who have carried continuity as an official and leader. When the political minister changes, the new minister has been working hard for at least a year to find a place to work together. Does that mean getting rid of Chancellors faster?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U206	Thank you. We already addressed the question of Chancellors and Landlords here once. In the new law, that time has been moved to six months. In order to balance this, if it is said that the cooperation will not work out after six months and the chancellor will be released, there will be considerable financial compensation. This is the regulation under which the chancellor can be released.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U207	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U208	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Who sets out the salary guide for a person who carries out political duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U209	It depends on what kind of political person you think. If he is a political adviser to the Minister, his contract of employment will comply with the standard terms and conditions agreed by the Ministry of Finance. According to this, the institution will agree on the kind of remuneration it receives, the kind of work it does and all other conditions. That is the answer in the case of a political adviser. The official's job is not political, as I said before. Officials, when doing their work, are guided by broader goals than by any party's guidelines. That is, at least, the purpose of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U210	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Paragraph 7 refers to the exercise of public authority. Paragraph 3 (9) of that provision refers to activities which, in the interests of the consolidation and development of public authority, cannot be conferred solely on a person having a private relationship with the public authority. The explanatory memorandum says that this point is written to ensure flexibility. There are also a few examples of how this flexibility might appear. When you read this point, it seems that it provides an extremely broad definition of a position of public authority. What is the real or broader purpose of this point, or is it that, if necessary, simply evaluates whether a person becomes an official or an employee?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U212	Thank you. I think you answered that question yourself. In fact, the authorities will have to review this list anyway. There is also an idea of what the proportions and distributions should be. It can be said (I say a little bit in a simplified way) that if someone is doing a job that is very important and cannot be done on the basis of a contract of employment alone, it can be said that it is an official position. This essentially means that this employee will also be subject to all the restrictions that the official has. That is the decision to be made by the institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U213	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U214	Thank you. I'm asking about legal expectations. Many officials who have worked for years are losing some form of benefits. I fully understand the necessity of the law and do not doubt it at all in the case of officials who are still coming into public service, but we are thinking about those officials who have worked conscientiously for the state for 10 to 15 years and who are now essentially predicated on the fact that several benefits are being abolished. What is your comment on how to explain this to them? How can we make these people work well?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U215	Thank you. As I said earlier in answering the questions, I believe that the new and more modern public service regulation will also give the official a better opportunity to defend his interests in one way or another. The new Civil Service Act will provide a clearer, more transparent and secure system of pay. It's clear what kind of pay you get. The scales will also be lost. If an official sees that his contribution is such that he can ask for more money, he can do so. There are different comparisons. The pay side is getting clearer. As I said before, it will also be laid down in which case an official's salary can be reduced at all. In the same way, a parent raising a small child will be given greater protection. I think there's a lot of pros here. You said that there are many people who work in the public service and who want to link their future with it. It is certainly very important to them that they also see opportunities for development. The new Civil Service Act creates these opportunities. I'm going to refer to the memory now. From time to time, the State Chancellery carries out studies on middle management and senior management of the public service. Among the motivational questions is why people work in the public service (this is my free referendum). Among the first four reasons, there is no pension or wage system. In fact, people work in the public ministry because it is their calling, they want to do something big, to work for the state and the people. It sounds a little pathetic, but that's what they say when they answer the question of why they're in the public service. I think the new law will only give you a better chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U216	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U217	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question is of a more general nature. As we know, the first version of the Civil Service Act came into force in Estonia on 1 January 1996. Before that, the State Service was also covered by the Employment Contracts Act. The new draft law brings the Civil Service Act very much closer to the Employment Contracts Act. If society evolves and developments progress, do you think there could ever be a time in the long term when a law such as the law of public service is not needed separately?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U218	Here's my second question. It is particularly good to ask this of the Liberal Minister, for whom a private relationship is certainly much more sacred than any government regulation. Some people work under an employment contract. As § 5 says nicely, it is a private employment relationship. Why, then, does § 10 (3) give any government the right to impose the terms of a contract of employment by regulation? How so? This is a private relationship: as they agree, so they agree. Why are we creating another vault in this vault? What right does the government have to determine anything here? Even if he does, it doesn't matter anyway, because it's what's more favorable to man. Why is such a paragraph necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U219	Thank you. I think it was a political assessment, a speech. Our convictions are different. However, the state as a single employer could and should lay down rules on what these employment contracts might look like and to some extent standard conditions could be laid down. It does not violate the principles of the law and does not contradict them or anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U220	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U221	Thank you. I wanted to ask the question: should civil service law also apply to officials who prove the rights and obligations of citizens and ensure that they can exercise control over documents by setting retention periods, etc.? In other words, do the archivists go under ATS or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U222	That depends on the definition they're dealing with. If they exercise public authority, they will. If it is a support service which is not necessary for the exercise of public authority, they will not go. This requires an assessment of the roles and activities of those working in the archive authority. Support providers are certainly not subject to this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U223	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U224	Thank you. On the basis of Eik's question, I also ask about inclusion. If the State prescribes all possible terms and conditions of employment, it would be such a unilateral collective agreement for all officials. However, the modern employment relationship between both officials and those working on the basis of a contract of employment should be based on good practice of inclusion. This is set out in all possible ILO conventions, some of which we have ratified and some have not. In this draft, we do not find any reference to the implementation of the inclusion principle. I'm just asking why.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U225	Thank you. I think the answer is very simple: for the government, inclusion is so natural that there is no need to refer to it in every law.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U226	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Austet waitress! In your opinion, apart from a 35-day vacation, is there any other factor in this bill that would make a good, young and educated person choose to serve the public service if there is a choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U228	Thank you. I believe that people always have the opportunity to choose what kind of work they do and where they work. As I said before, people who work in the public service have not gone there just for the benefits. They are still going to serve some greater purpose; they want to work for their country and their people. When you think of comparison with the private sector, the first thing, as you said, is a longer vacation. Another advantage compared to the Employment Contracts Act is greater protection for parents raising young children. That's what we've been talking about here a couple of times. There is certainly a good opportunity to move forward within the public service. I think this is a very important principle. There are certainly activities and nuances in the public service that do not exist in the private sector. I think it's possible to be part of something big in the public service. In my opinion, there are still many who make this choice. Like who we are here. People are not likely to be running for Parliament because of these benefits, I very much hope so, but they are here because they want to do something for their people. The same is true of the public service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U229	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U230	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question about the exercise of public authority and its definition. The Defence League is a legal entity governed by public law which directly engages in the creation of military capabilities, participates in the safeguarding of state security and constitutional order, and deals with state secrets. It includes a large number of people in active service. In the present sense, the Defence League has been excluded from the scope of the Civil Service Act. Why is that, and shouldn't we review it?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U231	Thank you. At the end of my presentation, I said that we were ready to make both decisions about the Defence League, and the Ministry of Justice was prepared to resolve this issue both ways. I think we asked the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance three times for their position. On the basis of these views, the new Civil Service Act does not cover the Defence League. If they think they should cover it, I think it's possible. This morning, when I introduced this draft law in the Central Party Group, the same question came up. Once again, I described that we asked both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance for an opinion. We would have expected this first of all from them, perhaps from the Ministry of Defence, which the Defence League itself wants. We're ready to act on it, we're ready to deal with it both ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U232	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U233	First of all, implementation. This is another major reform alongside the reform of higher education, which is being implemented by the current government coalition. Speaking of implementation, the good people of the Ministry of Finance already have some work done. They said it in private and secret, and I'll tell you in secret that it could take a minimum of six months to implement. It may have been said a lot, it would be correct to say that the optimal would be six months. It would be my wish that the Riigikogu, before it passes on to a different form of work when the summer arrives, would be able to adopt this law. There would then be sufficient time for the law to enter into force on 1 January 2013. If the Riigikogu cannot adopt this law before the arrival of a different form of work, it should probably enter into force in mid-2013. This transition should be long enough to give all implementing and local authorities sufficient time to switch. I regard quality as a priority for this reform, not for a bird's sake. We're doing a big thing that affects a lot of people. So six months could be the intervening time. The second question concerned the principle of legitimate expectations. I think we've been Christian in every way. We do not take away the pension supplement from people for the years they have earned. A chance to serve it for another five years will be given. In the case of leave, for days of retirement, the transition is four years, which is analogous to the transition to the Employment Contracts Act. I think he's been very Christian in every way.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U234	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U235	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The Government of the Republic has been given several powers to impose special regulations on employees and also on local government officials. In order to safeguard the sovereignty and autonomy of local governments, would it not be right to consider the Local Government Organisation Act in parallel?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U236	Thank you. I was left a little vague about the content of this question. Did you ask if the two laws should be dealt with together? I think there are some transitions either way. As I mentioned, one question already touched on the COKS. We will discuss this to some extent, but this law, in most cases, still deals with the public service, it is the law of the public service.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U237	Tõnis Lukas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The level of chancellors as top officials is quite well developed. Their position, its position within the ministries, and its position within the government apparatus at all, is, in my opinion, one of the most effective and better developed in the state system. We all know who the Chancellors are, and the Chancellors know that. It is not of minor importance, among other things, that the Chancellor's position is not so accessible to political parties in terms of partying. The Chancellors themselves consider continuity to be important, and so does statehood as a whole. We have only recently agreed that this fitness check will last for a year. Why is this time being moved to six months? In my opinion, the level of Chancellors should be dealt with completely separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U239	Thank you. The whole of this principle of timeliness actually extends. We have thought, and in the government as a whole, it is thought that the optimal time could be six months. I have spoken to the Secretary of State, for example. He thought it would be six months, too. If the cooperation doesn't work out, it makes sense that there's a good way to break up. Six months is the optimal time, of which we did not consider it possible to set a shorter time. Whether this time is six months or a year does not, in my opinion, depend on the possibility of politicisation. If someone wants to politicise officials, it is certainly not the intention of the bill, nor is it the purpose of the current government, then it can also do so within the framework of the current ATS, as we all know, and certainly you will remember it from a long time ago. We all remember these examples of how some ministries have been very successfully politicised or repoliticized also within the framework of the current law. It is, in my opinion, a question of culture, whether the Minister or Chancellor chooses to be his co-workers and colleagues, as far as he chooses, people who are professional, competent and based on a common value area, or, above all, loyalty. I appreciate competence, job skills and the ability to achieve goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U240	Minister, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I ask Väino Linde, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U241	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen. When dealing with this draft, it is appropriate to recall a piece of writing that reads: 'Money can serve anyone, but only the best can serve the country. " This point is probably quite serious when reviewing the provisions of the draft Civil Service Act. I would like to recall that, for the first time, the Civil Service Act was introduced in January 1996 and has functioned for nearly 17 years. It is quite natural that many problems have been identified in this law over these years. We regard as problems the opaque and almost non-differentiated wage arrangements, rigid and formal accreditation, lengthy and cumbersome competitions for officials and, in particular, unjustified and excessive professional benefits of officials compared to those laid down in the Employment Contracts Act. With the entry into force of the new law, the organisation of public sector salaries will become clearer and more transparent. These principles and circumstances were all discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 12 March. a and where the Minister of Justice, who accompanied ministerial officials as experts, was represented as the author of the draft. The Minister introduced the content of the draft as thoroughly as he did here today, the good members of the Riigikogu. I really have no reason or need to repeat all this. All I am saying is that the draft decree designates the Ministry of Finance as the institution responsible for the public service and also provides for the Government of the Republic to have the power to lay down the rules governing the management of human resources for the various institutions. So the guiding force that should be responsible for the future of the public service is stated in this draft. The members of the Commission asked very different questions about the facts of the draft. Colleagues also asked questions on these issues here today. I don't need to start repeating all this right now. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs will deal with this draft thoroughly. We are planning additional meetings with several interest groups, both representatives of local governments and other interest groups, to discuss the circumstances arising from the Civil Service Act. You, ladies and gentlemen, too, will be able to put forward your supplementary proposals on this draft. The Minister in the Commission, and also today, said that the Government of the Republic would like to see at least six months between the adoption of this draft as a law and the implementation of the law, which is very reasonable. It is planned that the law will apply, depending on the speed of the procedure of the draft in the Riigikogu, either on 1 January 2013 or on 1 July 2013. We took procedural decisions on the draft by consensus at the Commission meeting; no one called for a vote. It is proposed that the first reading be completed today and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 25 April. This is somewhat longer than usual, but this bill is not an easy bill, but is one of the most important drafts that the current Riigikogu has dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U242	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U243	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for a very thorough presentation. I have a question. You've been here in the Riigikogu for a long time, worrying about the state and the people. What does your gut say, as opposed to earlier times when an analogous bill was submitted to the Riigikogu for discussion, can a miracle happen and we are really adopting this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U244	Thank you. The new draft law on the Civil Service Act was also pending during the previous Riigikogu and fell out of it due to the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu. Having learned quite thoroughly about the previous draft, as well as what is on the tables of the Riigikogu today, I can safely say that the facts and content of these drafts do not coincide at the same time. Further work has been done on the draft. I am quite convinced that this is why the procedure for this draft has taken place in a consensually positive direction and has not been treated as lukewarmly as the previous draft was treated during the previous Riigikogu. Compromise and seek a common role in politics are very important, certainly also in the public service and in relation to it. My gut tells me that at the moment we are in a better position than we were in the previous Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U245	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U246	Thank you. Good colleague! I have a question about special laws. As we know, we are currently in the process of a draft law on military service. I now read in § 2 of the draft law on the Civil Service Act that this law applies to the special laws. Can you give good advice as to what degree of detail it is meant to be? With the precision of the paragraph? For example, § 28 'Start of service'. If there is no such paragraph in KVTS, does this paragraph apply or must the subject be approached more creatively? Can you help me with some tips?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U247	Thank you. A more creative interpretation process is quite characteristic of the representatives of another agency. I've been a lawyer, and I know it from my own hands. But as a member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, I can first and foremost rely on the fact that I am looking at specific norms and provisions as to whether they overlap and what the links between them are. It was mentioned earlier that, for example, in this draft, it may not be justified at all to talk about defence officers, given the draft that is pending and to which you referred in your question. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is certainly looking forward to the proposals of the Committee on National Defence to ensure that these two laws are comparable in a good way and cross-use (this word also fits here).
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U248	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U249	Thank you, good vice chairman. Honourable waitress! While the Minister in his presentation said that this is a very good and necessary draft, perhaps you are bringing out what were the most important issues in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U250	Thank you. I began to wonder if this was a meeting of the Riigikogu or a meeting of the Reform Party Group, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U251	This is the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U252	Very good. I am pleased that the President of the sitting has helped me out of my embarrassment. For example, Deniss Borodich asked at the committee meeting whether a full consensus had been reached on the last text of the draft, with all stakeholders, or whether there had been some disagreements. The Minister replied that it was never possible to reach a full consensus on very large reforms, but the key proposals have been taken into account. It was a question of whether smaller municipalities would be required to form separate city offices, for example, according to the draft. That is how the text of this draft was interpreted. The officials of the Ministry of Justice replied that they did not have to form, the draft simply provides an opportunity for the city Chancellery to be formed, and for the offices already in existence this provision is applicable, which speaks of the possibility of forming it. This additional regulation resulted from a meeting with the representatives of the largest local government of Estonia. So there were quite a variety of points of consensus and compromise in this meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U253	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My colleague Peep Aru has already asked me about your attitude as a longtime member of the state service, but I will go back in time and ask you about your former mayor's attitude. Do you think this new law will make the activities of local governments significantly more efficient and flexible? Do you also have information about how local government leaders outside Tallinn have adopted this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U255	Thank you. Good question. As has been answered here before, it cannot be demanded that, in the case of a very important reform such as the reform of the public service, 100% agreement be reached everywhere, but in the general principle, the approach to this draft has been positive. This has been the case in the municipalities, in particular because of the excessive professional benefits of officials compared to the current Employment Contracts Act. However, these benefits should be comparable, not the way they are today. As far as I know, the local government leaders have given us a lot of heart that this should be dealt with in the Riigikogu. It's one of those things. There are certainly other important provisions. But with this draft, it is important that we do not reduce the self-determination of local governments. It seems to me that a compromise has almost been reached at the moment. In those days, the Riigikogu Committee on Constitutional Affairs received some proposals from the Association of Estonian Cities for further supplementing the draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs will certainly examine them and involve representatives of the Ministry of Justice. I believe that we will certainly find compromises here.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U256	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U257	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is certainly very important that the public service is effective. Certainly, it is also important that the principles of civil servants' benefits and salaries include a lot of analogy with those working under the Employment Contracts Act. But I have this question: has there been any mention of financial savings since the adoption of the new version of the Civil Service Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U258	Thank you, good questioner! If my memory does not deceive me (and obviously does not deceive me), then we have dealt with this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs almost as much as we have dealt with you, we have been to the same sessions. As I recall, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not taken any decisions on the cost of this draft or the resulting savings. We have focused our attention, in particular, on the legal nuances set out in the draft, on what is meant by the concept of an official and what is public service, public tasks, the exercise of state authority, etc. As far as I am concerned, we have not based ourselves on the financial side. This bill has not been drafted to save money. However, I admit that, if, for example, the redundancy allowance paid to a staff member is reduced several times in the case of redundancy, this is also a certain amount of savings for the municipality, but above all, I think it is a sign of a sense of fairness as a whole and this is perhaps even more important.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U259	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U260	Thank you. Good waitress! The organisation of the public service will be concentrated in the Ministry of Finance according to the new law. The role of the State Chancellery is decreasing; all activities are concentrated in one ministry. Did the Commission also have a debate on what will actually be the role of the State Chancellery in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U261	Thank you. Please ask Marko Pomerants, representative of the Parliament's Speaking Chair of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U262	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance also welcomes the procedure for this draft law. If, at the beginning of the day, very pessimistic notes sounded that hopefully we will be able to deal with this draft this time before the end of our Riigikogu mandate, I do not think we can afford such a mild task. We should aim for Midsummer Day and I think there is nothing impossible here. It is clear that if there are 28000 officials in the country and we start to distinguish between officials and staff, there will be questions. But it doesn't pay too much attention. If you take a particular institution and start going along a line there, I think it is possible to carry out this task and officials become officials and employees on the basis of a contract of employment. So don't be nervous! One of the most exciting issues is, of course, the disclosure of pay. Here, in my opinion, is a very simple principle: if people dare to accept wages, there should not be a problem with making it public, because no one is ashamed of spending money. The question remains as to whether there is anything to spend, since the idea of high civil servants' salaries is certainly very deceptive. As the representative of the IRL, I can say that we too are very pleased, just as it was clear from the statements made by the Social Democrats that attention has been paid to the protection of a small child or a pregnant parent. We're very happy with § 100. All this criticism is very nice, but I understand that there will be a ten-day deadline for tabling amendments, and after that there will be no reason simply to discuss it in general, but to discuss specific amendments that will become part of the law or not. We are the three members of the Riigikogu who have made the law of one area more true to real life. It hasn't gone so fast in other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U263	Thank you. I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi, representative of the Central Party Group of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U264	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group also considers that this is a very important bill, not only for people serving in public authorities and local authorities, but in fact for society as a whole. It is important, after all, that this bill sends a signal about the exercise of public authority, about who is the official exercising that public authority and who is not, and for what reasons, the rights and obligations of that official. I also consider it important that the whole public service system is clear and transparent in terms of its content, objectives and benefits. We all know that the public service has been in need of reform for years. The first attempt was perhaps made in 2001, now, in 2012, I think it is the fourth one. Let's hope this test succeeds. I therefore hope that the procedure of the draft will proceed constructively and in a debate, and that, for the sake of clarity, the reservations and doubts raised by both this debate and the many institutions and the misunderstandings that have arisen can be resolved. It is also necessary to give a clear signal on the implementation of the law and the possible costs involved. Actually, I'm optimistic. When the Minister of Justice visited the Central Party Group today, he was at least very open to discussion in words, and I hope he is in action. He said that all reasonable changes were welcome, that they were ready to deal with and solve problems. I really hope that together we can make this bill even better for both officials and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U265	Thank you very much, Mr Borodich. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 193 amendments at 6 p.m. on 25 April. The first reading of bill 193 is complete. Our agenda is exhausted and the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 4:43 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U266	Thank you. The Constitutional Committee did not discuss the activities of the State Chancellery in the sense that it is responsible for this draft. However, we considered it appropriate that the approval of posts or the auditing of posts, whether it is an official's post or an employee's post on the basis of an employment contract, be organised by the Ministry of Finance. I remember that this issue was even discussed in greater depth during the previous Riigikogu, when almost analogous to the draft procedure. That provision was in there. We found that this is the point of agreement on how the government and the state want to deal with these issues and which institution to turn them over to. The government agreed that these issues will be regulated by the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the public authorities' finances. Perhaps it is more appropriate for him to look not only at the number of money but also at where the position is formed and whether or not the staff member is an official. We admitted that such an approach would be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U267	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Kajar Lemberi, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U268	Ladies and gentlemen, Certainly, first of all, we must welcome the Minister for the fact that this bill has arrived in this Chamber and that we are eager to discuss it today. On the other hand, I will say a comment to Väino Linde: it is very good that coalition politicians will also ask questions about the drafts. What's wrong with that? The organisation of the Estonian public service has indeed been an example of a post-war German public service. Officials also received guarantees under the law there, and the aim was to create a stable official body. Germany is also abandoning this concept, with the share of employees in employment increasing. I think that Estonia is on the right track when, according to its so-called example, it starts building a new path. But there are certainly a lot of tensions about this bill. These are largely due to the legitimate expectation that people currently working in the public sector will continue to enjoy the guarantees provided by law. They are right to do so in themselves, because there is really no special alternative. That is why people have a great desire to remain officials, although their daily work is perhaps not directly related to the exercise of public authority. I would like to highlight a few issues that we should pay more attention to in our discussions. I believe that if the coalition listens to the views of the opposition and interest groups, it will eventually become a very good draft. One of the issues that came out of here and we asked the Minister about today is inclusion. It is also possible to involve parties who have not been able to put all their views on paper during the reading break. The principle that only those state-paid persons who directly exercise public authority will be regarded as officials in the future is correct. Unfortunately, it is not fully thought out in the draft or very clearly written down. Officials shall be deemed to be persons performing the principal functions of the Ministry without giving an exact explanation as to who they are. On the one hand, it is understandable that, for example, a tax officer or a health inspector is an official, but is the same bill put together by a lawyer who, although not directly exercising public authority, an official or not? The issue of the introduction of definitions and new concepts certainly wants to be more clearly negotiated. Similarly, the position of the representatives of the political groups of this house, etc., raises questions. This topic wants to be discussed. Even if, at national level, drawing these lines is somehow applicable, much more questions arise at least for me at the local government level. How can a distinction be drawn between an official and an employee on the basis of an employment contract at municipal level? I think it's even more complicated. This has actually come out of today's discussion. We consider it right that the transition from the old Civil Service Act to the new one should take place without any social tension. There are examples here when people who have been employed in the past have continued to serve on their former bases and new workers have been employed in accordance with new principles. There is also a transitional period and certain measures provided for here, but it is certainly possible to develop it further. We welcome the idea that at least 80% of the official's salary should be a basic salary. That makes sense. At the same time, many issues need to be clarified not only in terms of pay but also in terms of working time, for example. Quite a few things are described in the explanatory memorandum, but when you read the text of the law, it can be interpreted in a very different way than the explanatory memorandum points out. One such issue may be the right to reduce the salary of an official when there is a general economic downturn, with the reduction not exceeding the reduction in the budget of the authority. The discussion raised the question of what this budget means here. Perhaps the reduction should be linked to the payroll fund and not to the total budget of the authority. Let's also talk about the right to strike. In addition to the fact that the official...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U269	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-04-04_U270	... strike must not, it is written in the bill such a good sentence that it must not participate in any other service-related pressure action that interferes with the activities of the authority. It is also quite difficult to interpret. For example, is a savior's seal, when they come to the castle square, considered to be a pressure action? Or how can you view a person collecting signatures at his or her place of work for an action and wasting his or her working time on it? These things should certainly be clearer. Finally. We believe that people working in the public sector could also have the right to enter into collective agreements, which would put them in a more equal position with the employer and create much more bargaining opportunities. The time of implementation of the law is certainly one of the points of the question. We have said that if the law can be passed in the spring, before the beginning of the second working method in the Riigikogu, it will be physically applicable. But is that reasonable? This, too, requires negotiation during two readings. In general, we welcome the handling of this draft. I very much hope that after the first reading there will be a serious discussion and many proposals. They will certainly come from the Socialist Group, and I hope they will also come from those involved. I really want to hope that they will be taken into account. So strength for all of us! Thank you.
