ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session on Thursday of the seventh working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Marianne Mikko, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an inquiry with 17 signatures to the Prime Minister of the Republic, Andrus Ansip. On 20 September 2011, the Riigikogu decided to propose to the Government of the Republic an action plan to reduce the pay gap between men and women. On 5 July this year, at the meeting of the Cabinet, the Action Plan proposed by the Minister for Social Affairs to reduce the pay gap between men and women was approved. Unfortunately, the Action Plan focuses mainly on communication activities. This year's World Economic Forum report on gender equality shows that Estonia is 60th in 135 countries in terms of gender equality. During its status as Prime Minister of Andrus Ansip, Estonia has fallen 31 seats between 2006 and 2012. This fall has taken place despite the fact that the Estonian score has not decreased. At a time when the world's developed countries are working to improve equality, the government has stood idle. By comparison, Latvia has at the same time risen from 19 to 15, Finland from 3 to 2nd. The government's inaction is all the more regrettable that Estonia remains a Member State of the European Union with the largest gender pay gap. On the basis of the above and of § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, we ask Andrus Ansipil to answer a number of questions, such as when will the action plan be completed as part of national supervision, analysis of legislation and development of collective bargaining? Does the government also see any responsibility in combating the pay gap or is it dealt with only when external donors finance such projects? It should be said that 85% of the action plan is financed by the Kingdom of Norway. What happens if the Norwegians do not allocate money for some reason? Thank you very much for your attention and we await the Prime Minister before us.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U4	Thank you. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have an inquiry to report to Minister Ken-Marti Vaher. The inquiry concerns a scandal that has exploded yesterday and has become known to us through the press. Once again, our police have been hit by a scandal and there are very important counterfeits hidden. In particular, 180 people have been punished with falsified evidence, uncontrolled instruments have been fined and the police's internal control report was agreed to remain silent. Of course, we want to know what's really going on with the police and who's responsible for this situation, so...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U5	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Please, let us honor the audience and honor the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U6	...again, people have been punished illegally. We have a number of questions here. We hope that this problem will be reached here very quickly in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and that we will not have to wait for the so-called prescribed time.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U7	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated on 7 November, is the Committee on Economic Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a The draft law amending the Water Act and the Tax Administration Act, initiated on 7 November, is the Committee on the Environment. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir. Good colleagues, presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U8	We will move to today's item, the first reading of the Act on Parental Benefits, the State Family Benefits Act and the Amendment of the Employment Contracts Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 274. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the member of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U9	As you well remember, in the spring all members of the Riigikogu were approached by multiple parents and in the autumn the parents of triplets once again asked to facilitate parents' livelihoods and to alleviate the financial situation of families in the event of multiple births. According to the draft, in the event of the birth of twins, triplets and more multiples, both parents will be granted the right to parental leave and parental benefit. A new type of family allowance is introduced • a family allowance for triplets and more polygamous families. Good fellows! The general purpose of the Parental Benefits Act is to compensate parents for loss of income due to raising their children. The current law makes no difference whether one child or several children are born. News about multiple pregnancy usually hits families unexpectedly, and instead of a planned one child, the family needs to manage to raise two, three or more children at once. In addition to economic difficulties, multiple births make it more difficult to care for children. Parents have to cope with multiple burdens because the current law does not allow multiple parents to take parental leave at the same time and receive parental benefit. A parent who grows multiples is doing double or even triple work in the same time, compared to a parent of a single child, and the costs of multiple parents are considerably higher, as the necessary items for children need to be bought at the same time and in multiple doses. The birth of multiples leads to specific costs due to lack of time, special facilities for multiples, etc., as caring for several children requires more time and energy. Taking care of several children at once is very burdensome for one parent, both mentally and physically, so help is needed. Since the cost of multiple births is already many times higher than that of an individual child, such families often do not have the possibility to use a paid carer. Under this draft law, the Parental Benefits Act is amended in such a way that, in the event of the birth of twins, triplets or more multiples, both parents will be entitled to parental benefits, one parent will receive benefits for 435 days and the other parent until the children reach the age of 12 months. At the same time, this extension of rights will improve the mental and physical well-being of both parents, especially the father, and of their children, as well as of families raising multiples. Leaving both parents on parental leave also helps to maintain gender balance in the labour market and enables women to plan and implement their careers more effectively. Under the current law, families with triplets and more multiples are treated as families with three or more children. The monthly child benefit and child care allowance are also paid for triplets and more multiples, as is the case for a family with three or more children. Children's births are generously supported today, but raising, educating and caring for children, especially multiples, requires three times or more spending from the family at once. This is why the Law on State Family Benefits complements the new type of family allowance: it adds support for triplet and more polygamous families, which helps to cope better economically and to cover the costs of several children at once until they reach their adulthood, and it also helps to prevent families from falling to the poverty line. This additional contribution would be EUR 57 per month. The Employment Contract Act is complemented by the fact that in the case of multiple births, both parents have the right to take parental leave until they reach the age of three. This measure will equalise the situation of families by helping to cope better with the difficulties of multiple births and, at the same time, ensuring that both parents return to work at the end of parental leave. Adopting this bill as a law will make support for more than 3,000 polygamous families more effective in terms of mental, physical, and economic coping. According to the initiator of the draft act, allowing both parents to take parental leave at the time of multiple birth and receive parental benefit for a limited period of time by law, while maintaining a job and providing support for a family raising triplets will improve their families' overall livelihood. With the entry into force of this draft, the public expenditure on both multiple parental parental benefits is estimated to increase by EUR 1.94 million per year. As a result of the amendment of the National Family Benefits Act, the benefits of triplets and more multi-breeding families increase public expenditure by EUR 122000 per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As a representative of the Socialists, I am here to introduce you to the draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act, the State Family Benefits Act and the Employment Contracts Act 274.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U11	Honourable waitress! I'm asking both of you to keep quiet so that we don't interfere with the work we're doing in the hall! I'm asking myself and you guys to be quiet right now, waiting for the hall to get the job done, then we'll go on with your report. I apologize to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U12	I thought I'd have to shut up too...
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U13	Yeah, that's what I meant. Good waitress, we're a little even so the hall can do its job! Thank you, good fellows. Heljo Pikhof, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U14	Dear waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Reet Roosi, member of the Social Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U15	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act, the State Family Benefits Act and the Employment Contracts Act submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group in 274 s. a on 23 October 2004. In the Commission, the draft law was presented by Heljo Pikhof as the representative of the initiator. The purpose of the Act is to grant both parents the right to take parental leave at the same time in the event of multiple births, to receive parental benefit at the same time until they reach the age of their children, and to introduce a new type of family allowance of EUR 58 for triplets and more families. The position of the Government of the Republic was presented by Seili Suder, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Anni Tooma, Adviser to the Minister of Social Affairs. The Government of the Republic does not support the draft. The government relied on the opinion and the fact that the provision of parental leave is governed by Council of Europe Directive 96/34EC, which has been transposed into Estonian law by the Employment Contracts Act. Clause 2 (1) of the Directive requires a Member State to allow parental leave to be used for a minimum period of three months. The Directive does not provide for parental leave based on the number of children. During parental leave, multiples are taken care of simultaneously, not at different times. Estonian law takes into account that the parent is raising children born at the same time and there is no need to establish the right to several parental leave based on the number of children born at the same time. The above position is also supported by the judgment of the Court of Justice in Case C-149/10, where the Court held that the directive cannot be interpreted as meaning that the birth of twins gives rise to the right to leave according to the number of children born. It is therefore not justified to consider that there is a need to multiply parental leave time in the event of multiple births. The Commission decided unanimously to put the draft on the plenary agenda today and to propose to reject the draft 274 (by 5 against 3, with 0 abstentions). In the event that the first reading of the plenary bill 274 is closed, it is proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set in s. 22 November 2010 at 6 p.m. The decision was consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U16	Thank you. You have at least one question. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U17	Thank you, good waitress. Indeed, the directive always sets out a minimum standard. But I very much doubt that we discussed in the Commission that this was the case with the directive's judgment. As I recall, it was different and due to other circumstances. But I'd ask you what you think, who should help and how it's possible to deal with triplets at home all by yourself. In most cases, someone is always helpful, but sometimes it can be a single parent, and there may be such cases. Then, of course, someone from the municipality would help. But if there is a mother and a father, I think it would be very normal for it to be another parent who helps at home during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U18	Thank you, Heljo! According to the Commission's protocol, and as I recall, the Court's decision was such that several parental leave cannot be taken at the same time. That was the decision about the birth of the twins, so it is written. I read: the directive does not provide for parental leave depending on the number of children and is supported by a judgment of the Court of Justice. We also learned in the Commission that the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing a Green Paper on child and family support services. We asked when it would be completed and said that the book would be completed during its composition. This Green Paper contains a separate chapter on the burden of multiple maintenance, with important services. When we asked the Commission how many of these services there were, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that there was an assistant who would assist two hours a day twice a week. We'll see how it comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U19	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U20	Thank you. Good waitress! We have seen enough in the Committee on Social Affairs to produce these green books. But if the government has something to do, there will be no social impact analysis, and there will be no such thing. I don't think giving the parents of the threesomes a green book is gonna help them with the baby. My question is: have you thought, apart from this Green Paper, that something could be done in the near future, next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U21	In the coming year, the birth grant for triplets that we currently have in Riigikogu proceedings will be increased, and this is a good start. Of course, we spoke in the Commission about the fact that services and services are actually important. I think it has to be dealt with, but the rise in birth grant should be quicker.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U22	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I wasn't planning on asking a question, but a good waitress, you opened up like Pandora's box, mentioning a green book. I have been in the Riigikogu for 1.5 years and I hear about green books twice a month in the middle. Please, can you enlighten me what will actually happen when this book is finally finished? I understand that it can, of course, be given, as proposed by Heljo Pikhof, but when will the activities foreseen in the Green Paper actually be realised?
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U24	Thank you for your question. Now I don't know exactly what's really going to happen, but I hope the Green Paper is in itself such a big social agreement, it's going to work, and it's going to work pretty fast.
ParlaMint-EE_2012-11-08_U25	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No requests, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to reject draft 274 at first reading. Dear colleagues, let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft position of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. For 44 members of the Riigikogu, against 26 members of the Riigikogu, there are no abstentions. The draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act, the State Family Benefits Act and the Employment Contracts Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The item is addressed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10:22 a.m.
