ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u1	Good afternoon to all and to all. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and the ladies and gentlemen. Security officers, I ask you to open the galleries to the public. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us keep quiet so that we can start our work. As usual, the Secretary of the Bureau will make some announcements to the House. You have the floor, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I begin by announcing the withdrawal of Bill No. 95 / XV / 1. a ( CH). I also inform you that they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects Nos. 99 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 102 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 103 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 104 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 105 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 106 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 107 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 108 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 109 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 110 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 111 / XV / 1. a ( IL) and 112 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Resolution Nos 65 / XV / 1 have also been added to the Table. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 75 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 77 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), 78 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 79 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 80 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 81 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 82 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 83 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 84 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 86 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u3	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then begin our agenda, of which the first point is the joint debate, in general, of the Bills Nos 53 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Creates the central administrative court centre, making the tenth amendment to the Statute of the Administrative and Fiscal Tribunals, approved in Annex to Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February 2002 to the tenth amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System, adopted by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August, and to the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 325 / 2003 of 29 December, which defines the seat, organization and jurisdiction of the administrative and fiscal courts, implementing its Statute and 87 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Takes measures to optimize the performance of the higher courts of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction by amending the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals. To submit Bill No. 53 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A good system of justice is a powerful indicator of the degree of democratic maturity and economic development of a country that wants to be structured in respect for the dignity of the human person, which defends the rights, freedoms and guarantees, which ensures social peace, which promotes national and foreign investment, creating wealth and social welfare. A good system of justice fulfils the right to effective judicial protection as set out in Article 20. that of our Basic Law, which expressly provides that « everyone is guaranteed access to the right and to courts to defend their legally protected rights and interests, (...) in order to obtain effective and timely protection against threats or violations of those rights». It is never too much to remember the basic principles of the democratic rule of law and that the courts are the organs of sovereignty competent to administer justice on behalf of the people. The administrative and fiscal jurisdiction is in the background of what I just mentioned. Administrative and fiscal jurisdiction is the cancer of Portuguese justice. Processes are dragged over too many years and this abnormality is normal in this jurisdiction. Whether a trial takes 15, 18, 20 or more years to pass in trial is normal—see the abnormality and aberration that this is! The situation of paralysis in which the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction undermines the citizen's confidence in the judicial system, even constituting an authentic denial of justice, jeopardizing the rule of law and the dignity and prestige that the State must have.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u6	Aware of this scourge, the PSD proposes, in this legislative initiative, the establishment of a new central administrative court ( ATC ) to enable the existing Central Administrative Tribunals, namely the North and the South. The two Central Administrative Tribunals are the appeal bodies of 1. the instance. It is true that the establishment of judgements of competence specialising in the first instance has slightly improved the progress of the proceedings, despite the fact that the proceedings continue to reach alarming proportions, but in the appeal bodies, the situation is even more serious. In addition, the Central Administrative Tribunals also operate in certain situations in certain processes such as 1. the instance. In addition to this, any decongestion measure introduced in 1. the instance loses all effectiveness in the authentic garrote that are the two Administrative Central Courts, completely intruded and unable to respond to the continuous increase of procedural expectations, with all the breadth and complexity of the materials that integrate the administrative and tax ordering. It is in this context that the PSD proposes the establishment of a new central administrative tribunal, with specialized competences, like the administrative and tax courts, to optimize the acquisition of knowledge of judges already specialized in certain matters, with benefit for the quality of decisions and the speed and efficiency of the process, also proposing that administrative tribunals may be set up, in the Administrative Central Tribunals, subsectors specialized in terms of matter and even with national competence, in order to give rapid progress to these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u7	Madam Member, excuse me for interrupting, but I ask the House to keep quiet so that you can hear the speaker. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. You may continue, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much. We also propose that this new central administrative court be based in the centre area, to break down the Central Administrative Tribunals North and South, and has a framework of judges themselves, with the increase in the number of judges to enter this jurisdiction, which means that they are not intended to be removed from the Northern and South Administrative Tribunals, because instead of increasing the problem itself - instead of solving it - to be sufficient to achieve the smooth scope of procedural processing and a sharp decrease in the morbidity of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. This measure has long been claimed by the professionals of this jurisdiction and by the citizens, their recipients. We cannot continue to allow citizens to stop fighting for the defence of their legitimate interests because they subjugate before the disastrous state of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction and prefer to be deprived of what they have to do as an even greater damage, which is the recourse to the judicial procedure in this jurisdiction. And this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a denial of justice. This is forbidden by our Constitution. This is the private forum that the State has to fight with the citizens, in a huge disproportionate force. Imagine what it is, for example, to have to bail in order to challenge an undue tax charge and not be able to raise it for endless years. Imagine what this does to the family economy. Imagine, for example, having a process of extracontractual liability, such as medical negligence or a road accident, and being with life suspended for 15, 20 or more years, reviving events, waiting for a outcome, a decision, which will always, necessarily, be extemporaneous for not having been given in good time. And justice that is not done in good time will never be justice. As we propose, it will not, on its own, solve the very serious problem of administrative and tax courts, but it will be a valuable and very important contribution to combating procedural rigour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u9	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll finish. This purpose is suprapartary and aims at the realization of justice and the inherent resolution of a real and serious problem of the citizens, so we believe that the conditions for the House of Democracy, in conjunction with efforts, are met...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u11	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u12	...to accompany the PSD in the establishment of a new central administrative court, in order to carry out justice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u13	To submit Bill No. 87 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The famous Brazilian abolitionist Rui Barbosa stated, one day, that "late justice is nothing more than institutionalised injustice", and institutionalized injustice is what we see in administrative justice. In fact, we are the fourth country with more cases pending in the administrative courts and in the European Union no country takes longer than we solve a case in 1. the instance. This institutionalized injustice harms citizens who, in the face of abuses by the public authorities, see their right to effective judicial protection as a dead letter. In addition, it penalises the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy because it brings increased costs to companies. Today, the NAP brings two proposals which aim to contribute to improving, optimizing and accelerating the functioning of the higher courts and which, moreover, were recommended by the Working Group on Administrative and Fiscal Justice at the beginning of this year. The first proposal is that there are sub-sections specialized in the Administrative Central Courts in so far as the path of specialization has proved to be an effective way of decongesting the courts in other countries of the European Union and in the administrative courts of 1. the court in Portugal. In addition, this would allow for a more structured and prepared response to the new challenges facing administrative law in areas such as environmental law. For example, having more specialized judges and those covered by environmental legislation would be synonymous with justice that is more sensitive to environmental issues. On the other hand, and in a second proposal, we want the period of validity of the examinations for access to the career of judges of the Supreme Administrative Court and of the Central Administrative Tribunals to be two years old. This process is too complex and the current period of one year does not even arrive to complete the curriculum evaluation process of candidates. These two proposals are very concrete and, although they seem simple, they can bring important changes, above all procedural acceleration and deburocratization. For the sake of administrative justice, we hope that we can put aside political differences and move forward with these proposals, because, as I said earlier, slow justice is not justice, it is institutionalized injustice, which takes time and fails with our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal that the PSD brings today is divided into two essential points: the first is the creation of a new central administrative court in the Central Region, choosing the city of Coimbra, and the second is the possibility of creating specialized subsections in this appeal court, in the image of what has already happened in 1. the instance in administrative and tax courts. The Liberal Initiative recognises that the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction suffers from problems such as the human and financial resource deficit — as the honourable Member mentioned — in a career which is less attractive, especially because of the large initial investment, which obliges candidates to travel to Lisbon to attend the course of the ECJ ( Centre for Judicial Studies ), without any other alternative in the remaining Portuguese territory, but also because they do not have any certainty about the tax treatment to be given to the training grants. Even though the Liberal Initiative even recognizes the need for a new ATT to be created, the problem of human resources remains. It is necessary to train more judges to deal with the current level of expectations, because, in our understanding, it is not enough to create courts if we do not have judges who occupy them. Having come here, and acknowledged by all that there are these basic problems, we wonder whether it will be reasonable to create a new ATT in the Centre area, since it is an acquired fact that there is a deficit in human resources not only in the administrative jurisdiction as in the entire sector of justice. On the other hand, we are wondering about the choice of the PSD of the city of Coimbra. Why not Viseu, Guarda, Castelo Branco or any other city in the interior of the country? What was the rational behind this choice? Regarding the second point of the PSD proposal, it is also similar to the proposal presented by the NAP. The truth is that we still do not have reliable data that can confirm the advantages of creating specialized subsections for decongestion, efficiency and speed in courts at level 1. the instance. In practice, we understand that we would be dividing judgments into groups, preventing a subsection with fewer processes from cooperating with those who have more expectations. In addition, we also believe that these changes in the judicial framework must be carried out at the heart of a more extensive review, which enables a serious study of the impact of the various proposals, thus avoiding the use of back-up measures whose consequences have not been properly considered. This is because legislative instability, especially in the fiscal area, is at the same time one of the major problems of our jurisdiction and the country. We believe that a more stable and predictable legal order will enable the existence of a consolidated case-law and doctrine that is easily seized by the citizens, which may be the alternative that the judiciary needs. The Liberal Initiative will therefore be available to reflect and contribute to this design. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u17	For an intervention, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current situation of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction in general and in particular of the central administrative courts comprising 2. the instance is scandalous. The procedural resolution time in these courts, as well as the number of pending cases, has been increasing exponentially, without taking due action immediately. Recently, in the tax dispute, with the amendments resulting from Law No 118 / 2019, the situation became even more serious because it involved an increase in the competences of the tax dispute sections of the administrative central courts, resulting in an increase in the entry of proceedings into those sections. Between 2004 and 2020 the number of cases entered in these courts more than doubled. However, there was no corresponding increase in human resources, which led to the current high expectations. in these circumstances, it is unbelievable the propaganda that the Government and the Minister of Justice make to increase new technologies and to implement artificial intelligence, as if they were the magic solution to procedural expectations. We do not deny the importance of the introduction and development of new technologies, especially with regard to the proximity of the parties to the processes through virtual access, but the fact is that the experience of the past should serve as an example for the future and the solution for laxity in decisions and high expectations in the 2nd. the instance will certainly not go through the implementation of new technology. I recall that at the time of the administrative reform implemented in 2004, the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction was a pioneer in our country and in most of Europe to adopt an IT Support System for the Activities of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, the so-called SITAF, and therefore not that computer platform has resolved or even contributed to a reduction in procedural expectations. On the contrary, SITAF has always proved to be an inefficient instrument of work, making the practice of judges more slow. This does not mention the successive technical problems leading to the frequent inoperativeity of the system. We understand that the resolution of high procedural dependence goes, above all, and in the first line, through the allocation of more human resources and not by more technology. Therefore, the Government's guidance in this area has both inadequate and inefficient to achieve the desired objective, which is the elimination of procedural expectations. There has long been a need for an extension of the maximum frameworks provided for in Ordinance No 290 / 2017, which sets out the tables of the judges of the central administrative courts. We understand that the maximum tables of judges are not adequate from the point of view of expectations, along with the procedural resolution rates. It led the Government to act to bring the number of cases entered and pending to the table of judges. This would be the most efficient solution for the immediate resolution of the problem of the second instance, because, indeed, my gentlemen, it will certainly not be any computer programme that will make decisions in the thousands of pending cases. The PSD proposal essentially follows the interim report of the Working Party on Administrative and Fiscal Justice, proposing the establishment of a new central administrative court, as well as the possibility of the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals to create sub-sections specialised on the subject. We understand that this proposal is in line with the conclusions of the Administrative and Fiscal Justice Report — Quality and Celebrity : Impasses and Solutions, of the Association Union of Portuguese Judges ( ASJP ), which in addition clearly identifies the problems in 2. the instance and proposes solutions that should not be ignored by this Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u19	in this report it was concluded with the need for specialization on the basis of the administrative dispute and the establishment of a new central administrative court based in the centre area, and this creation should add the resources coming from the TAF (administrative and fiscal courts) of the same area. in this context, and considering that the draft law of the PSD, when creating an administrative central court in the Center of the Country, will necessarily lead to an effective increase in the number of judges in the 2. the instance, we believe that it is an effective measure in the fight against procedural expectations and therefore it will not be enough in this Parliament to oppose its approval.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u20	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u21	I shall conclude, Madam President. My gentlemen, the arrival intends to be part of the solution of the immediate and real problems of administrative and fiscal justice that affects all citizens and businesses and not of any science fiction film in which artificial intelligence replaces judges in the proliferation of judicial decisions. To justice what is justice! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u22	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Leitão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The need to introduce improvements in different aspects of administrative jurisdiction, whether from an organic, formal or procedural point of view, is a matter which deserves broad consensus. The interim report of the Working Group on Administrative and Fiscal Justice, published on 1 September 2021, points out several measures including the establishment of specialized sections and other measures, including the creation of new 2 courts. the instance. In fact, however, these measures need to be framed in a comprehensive and duly integrated reform in a vision of a global dimension of administrative justice, as is also referred to in the opinion of the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals on the bills we are examining. It is necessary to study and understand, in particular in statistical terms, the volume of proceedings which a new central administrative court in the Centre would have and dimension it in various aspects, including in the staff framework, depending on that volume. Thus, the bills currently under discussion are premature at this stage, but it makes sense that they are analyzed in order to frame them in a comprehensive and integrated view of the necessary revision and reform that is necessary for administrative justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u24	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law submitted by the PSD proposes the establishment of a central administrative court of the Centre, a proposal that may contribute to countering the situation of drowning of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction that lives and has implications for the realization of justice. However, this will not happen simply because of the implementation of the proposal, and there will be aspects which will be decisive so that it can effectively be so, in particular in relation to the judges' framework, but also of officials and advisers, who will be affected by the service of that court, i.e. that the PSD does not specifically define and thus, in a way, is left open. It has already been said several times here, including by the Minister of Justice, that 'walls do not solve cases, people solve cases'. I also add that people, with their valued careers and conditions to perform their duties, resolve processes more and better. On the other hand, not being clarified and resolved in the court that it is intended to create and in those who already exist the question of the number of judges and also of officials, considering above all the demanding lack of judges, it is difficult to believe that the possibility of creating sub-sections specialized at the level of the central administrative courts will result in effective gains in the realization of justice, especially in terms of speed and effectiveness. In view of the lack of judges, the solution to move forward with the creation of specialized subsections increases the risk of undesirable suffrage in judicial practice. The draft law submitted by the NAP, in the part where it deals with the extension of the validity of the contests of the judges, does not raise any objection. However, in the part where it seeks to propose specialization, it is worth the same assessment made regarding the PSD bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u26	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD brings the debate to an initiative to propose the establishment of a new central administrative tribunal in the Centre. The diploma deals with a structural problem of Portuguese justice, which is the delay in the application of administrative and fiscal justice in particular. That's a problem. Justice generally takes a long time in Portugal, and administrative and fiscal justice takes even longer, which, in itself, is a way of denying access to justice. It is not the only one, we know, because the cost of justice is an obstacle, but the delay in justice is a way of denying access to justice. Therefore, the measures that come with this intent come well, and we look at them with this willingness to try to add solutions to a field in which there are indeed many problems. We are not theoretically opposed to the idea of setting up a new central administrative tribunal. We can discuss the site, I don't think it's a decisive and intransponible thing, but it doesn't seem to us that the proposal does not make sense in itself. It makes sense, it makes sense because it would help to have a new source of process exit, would lead to a greater number of professionals restricted to process resolution and, therefore, normally, to a reduction in the number of dependencies. However, this theoretical development of the proposal has some practical obstacles. There are no judges, there are no judges, there are no justice officers, there are no human resources at all. From that point of view, the proposal does not address this particular problem. The PSD may say 'well, but this is solved in another instance. It is another case, it is another debate». It will! However, we do not forget the role that the PSD played in the devaluation of the careers of justice and in the lack of support for several proposals that the Left Block brought to this House to value the careers of justice, whether the judges or the judicial officers. From that point of view, we do not forget that when we often proposed solutions, the PSD was not next to those solutions. Therefore, it is appropriate to respond, in practice, how the PSD plans to value careers to make the role of judge or judge more attractive because there is a lack of appeal in these careers. How it guarantees greater attractiveness to the careers of justice officers, because there is a lack of attractiveness to these careers, in the background, how it equips these walls, which is a court, of the human resources that make them serve for something, but when much, they will serve for the process to gain dust, which is also not a way to guarantee justice. I conclude by saying that on the left side of the Block we will follow this initiative, considering that it must be much more ambitious to, in fact, be a pillar in responding to the problems of justice that the country currently has. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u28	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u29	Madam President, Dear and Dear colleagues : Yes, a slow justice is a denial of justice, it is a distortion of the rule of law and it aggravates the distrust and mistrust of citizens in the Republic as a whole. One way to try to reduce these problems is by creating new institutions, physical infrastructure, buildings, human infrastructure, capital of judges and officials, and, yes, it makes sense that there is an administrative and fiscal tribunal in the centre of the country. The Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals 20 years ago provided for the creation of only one court in Lisbon ; 19 years ago a court was established in Porto, 19 years later the litigation did not increase and one of the ways in which the number of sentences could be reduced is through the creation of new courts. The Free will therefore support this measure. However, we need to take some care of the legislative prolixity of our institution and to promise more and comply with less. And here I am also referring to something that is very common in proposals in this area, which is to say: "We will solve the problems of delays in justice, they are very serious. Portugal is in the European Union's justice assessment panel, the country systematically worst placed in civil processes. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u30	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u31	I shall conclude, Madam President. And, for example, increasing the deadlines for competitions for judges will not solve this problem and, in a way, we also need to take care of too much volunteerism in promises with disabilities in the presentation of results.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u32	To close the debate, Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u33	Madam President, I would like to thank all the speeches and contributions made by the ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have greatly enriched this debate. Obviously, the PSD is open to all materials to be worked in the field of expertise. I will respond cross-sectionally to the questions that have been raised here and which are more or less common, from the point of view of headquarters. Well, who remembered Coimbra for the first time I thought it was Prof. Servulo Correia, in 2005, that in a famous study it was essential that a new central administrative court be established in Coimbra. But to be in Coimbra or another city, for the PSD now, it doesn't matter, what matters is that a new central administrative tribunal is actually created to decongest and to be a new way to resolve disputes, either when it works in 1. the instance, whether or not it works as the place of appeal. Therefore, we are absolutely available to work on geographical location. It was also here spoken by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna have walls and we're not gonna have people. No, it is obvious that this is not what we propose and our draft law is absolutely clear; what we propose is that a particular picture of judges and also of officials be created, because it would obviously not make sense that if they were emptying the Northern and South Administrative Courts and removing the same judges from there who would later be working in the new court. Therefore, this is not what we are proposing, but rather an increase in the board of judges through the entry into the ECJ and the opening up of new courses in the administrative and fiscal area. The PSD is aware that, in order to effectively solve the problem of this jurisdiction, a global reform is needed and has proposed it, with all the matters already addressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u34	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u35	I shall conclude, Madam President. However, « Rome and Pavia did not take place in one day», and this measure, not being an avous measure, therefore, I do not agree with what Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz said, is a concrete measure because it is indeed necessary to set up a new central administrative tribunal to decongest the courts of 1. the instance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u36	Mrs. Members, we turn to agenda item 2, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of the Lein. 7 / XV / 1 Projects. a ( CH) — Increases the value for the special pension supplement of former combatants, 52 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the vital complement of pension and the minimum pension of dignity for former combatants and 91 / XV / 1. a (BE) — establishes the vital complement of pension and the minimum pension of dignity to former combatants. To submit Bill No. 7 / XV / 1. a, Mr André Ventura has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival brings to this House today a project aimed at restoring historical justice, which was denied to our former fighters. Many of our former fighters have lost their youth—some even their life—, their time, with their dedication to this country and now live under bridges as homeless or with poor pensions to support themselves and their families. The project that arrives here today aims to correct this historical inequality and to propose a minimum pension of 300 € monthly, regardless of the time of service, to all our former fighters during the Colonial War. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is a promise made in an election campaign, but above all it is a historic plan that we have to take. Our former fighters deserve the work and effort we have here to give them the dignity that has been stolen from them. When the Statute of the Old Combatant has been approved, the left and the PS Government have done no more than give the former combatants a harmless card and they continue to suffer for their health, continue to pay for their incomes, continue to punish for their lives. We should look at examples that we have in the United States, in England and in France, where, for example, a pension of €754 is paid free of taxes to ex-combatants, biannually. What we propose here is to correct what needs to be corrected. There are about 400 000 ex-combatants in Portugal, many of them are our parents and grandparents, who have been fighting for a land and an idea of Portugal. Those who gave their lives to the service of the country so that Portugal would be what it is today, when they were called, did not look back or run like others, who hid in other countries, supposedly under the dictatorship situation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, Madam President and Mrs. Members, it is that some who were leaders of the parties, prime ministers and presidents fled when called to perform military service and others gave their lives for freedom and their country, gave their time and their youth, and what we gave them was to look aside and forget what they did. Yes, some party leaders sitting here in the Assembly of the Republic, instead of fighting for Portugal, fled to other countries at the time they were fighting for this country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What we do here is recover that honor and memory from our former fighters, our eternal fighters, our eternal country. For them all, for them all and for them we shall fight to the end. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u38	To submit Bill No 52 / XV / 1. a, of the CFP, has the floor of Mr João Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are many manifestations of discontent that come to us every day. There are, in fact, many complaints from various associations of former combatants who tell us that it is general the feeling that the former combatants have been overcome by the result of the approval of the Statute of the Old Combatant, because the legitimate and fair expectations that the former combatants have to see their pensions with a significant increase have not occurred, and from here we welcome all those associations that have fought for the dignity of the Statute of the Old Combatant. The old fighters, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who were sacrificed in an unjust war, should be deserving of public recognition, not only in symbolic words and gestures, but above all in concrete support capable of improving their living conditions. Says the PS that it's avulsive measures. No, in fact, it is necessary to respond to a problem that has existed since the 2002 « Ports law ». At that time, there was an increase in a vital pension for former combatants, but it was never met, Mrs. Members; on the contrary, we have chosen to set out pretexts and justifications for never realizing a measure that was subsequently changed and so has never gone anywhere. Mrs. Members, the proposal now put forward by the CFP addresses key issues. Avulsive measures are those which have been approved and which translate into a sense of betrayal when expectations are created for former combatants, such as election promises, but which the day after the elections are immediately forgotten. The CFP therefore assumes, in its proposal, two central claims: one for the allocation of a vital pension supplement amounting to €50 per month—and thus, we follow the proposal of the League of Former Combatants, which goes so far—and another for the creation of the minimum pension of dignity, in order to ensure, phased out, that three years after the law comes into force, the pension corresponds, at least, to the national minimum wage. It's a matter of dignity, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no ex-combatants to take less than the national minimum wage. We are sure that it is a very insistent claim on the part of the former fighters and that we think it is fair. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we appreciate the progress, though limited, enshrined in the Statute of the Old Combatant and regret that it has not gone any further, as it was possible and fair, but we are in time to correct this injustice. The PS, by announcing its vote against the PCP project, is thus confirming the betrayal against the former fighters. It's another missed opportunity, gentlemen. Members, and in the good manner of anyone who wants to continue to deceive the former combatants, says the PS that will introduce improvements in the Statute of the Old Fight to the end of the current legislation. It's a case to say, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, make another promise there that it no longer deceives anyone. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u40	To submit Bill No. 90 / XV / 1. the Left Block has the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is still marked by a colonial war. An unjust war that has caused — and causes — suffering to many families in Portugal and in the old colonies, many thousands of dead, maimed, wounded, victims of so much suffering and so many psychological marks that have consequences until today. An entire generation, now over 60 / 70 years old, has the marks of this war. During the 1960s and early 1970s, many men were taken from their families and their lands by the fascist regime that sent them to an unjust war. Many of these ex-combatants have returned with the aftermath of the war and have never been brought to justice and many survive today with a miserable retirement pension. But they are not the only ones, also their families have suffered at the time with uncertainty and concern, they still suffer from physical and psychological marks, many still marked by post-traumatic stress and the thugs brought by war. Opposition to war has contributed to democracy. Democracy brought peace and the democratic country has a debt to these citizens, has a debt to all those who the fascist regime has sent to an unjust and murderous war. The State and society must therefore do justice to the former combatants, ensuring due recognition and solidarity. But not only: they must materialize this dignity in sufficient means of subsistence and living conditions. That is why the Left Block Parliamentary Group presents this bill, for this recognition and for the proper living conditions. We propose the creation of a minimum pension of dignity, with value equal to the national minimum wage, so that no ex-combatant has a pension below that value, and we also propose a vital supplement to the pension of €50 to the former combatants, in addition to their reform. I cannot help but take advantage of this moment when we discuss the issue of former combatants' pensions to appeal to the Government that finally implements the former fighter card and other measures that were provided for in the Old Combat Statute. This card, in particular, is a dignification document which assigns concrete rights, including free public transport, the exemption of moderate rates and free entry into national museums and monuments. It is not acceptable that, after two years of the publication of the Statute of the Old Combatant, the same is not yet implemented, in particular in the issue of Cards of the Old Fighter. The country has a debt to whoever fought this wrong war. It is time for peace to give them justice and democracy to guarantee them living conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u42	Madam Member, the Bureau has registered a Member for a request for clarification. In order to make this request, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u43	Madam President, Madam Member, we have heard with some interest the move of the Left Block by the former combatants. I ask them if they continue to consider - this is a very direct question - that this was a fascist war, that those who participated in it or decided it were fascists and whether this decision became Portugal all and its generations at that time in a generation of fascists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u44	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u45	But I would also like to ask you if you continue to defend the declassification of military documents between 1961 and 1974, if you want to open wounds with the men of this generation still alive, and if you want to do any kind of research that was the Portuguese Colonial War, when, as you said, these men did not choose to go there, but they were at the service of the country, who at the time asked them to go. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u46	By the way, I would like to know your opinion, Mrs Deputy, about the leaders of several of your parties who fled to France, Switzerland and Italy to fail to perform military service during the Colonial War. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u47	In reply, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u48	Madam President, Mr President, I do not recognize myself in the sentences you have mentioned, I did not write them. However, the Left Block considers, yes, that this war was an unfair war against peoples who fought for their liberation and their right to self-determination. This war would have been excused, if the country had not been under the yoke of fascism and had it accompanied the democratic processes of decolonization which at the time, indeed, the UN (United Nations) had already called for and urged the country to do so. So, yes, it was a war that resulted from fascism. Yeah, it was an unfair war.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u49	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u50	Yes, I recognize the courage of all those who, in their conscience, at risk of losing their lives or being arrested, did not want to participate in this war. Yes, we recognize this courage and, yes, we recognize the right of the country to the truth about this war, because it was a war of which many and many were victims, not only Portuguese but also of the countries that had to fight for its liberation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u51	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u52	It is not only the Portuguese people, it is all the peoples who have been subjected to this war that have the right to historical truth about what happened and, therefore, we continue to claim the declassification of these documents,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u53	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u54	...as we continue to demand justice for the former combatants who were forced, by fascism, to fight in this unjust war. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u55	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 14 February 2020, this House discussed the Statute of the Old Combatant, which culminated in the conquest of this Statute, which the Liberal Initiative voted favourably, with the publication of Law No 46 / 2020, of 20 August. Today, the bills that the Left Block, the Left Block and the PCP bring to the debate aim, in essence, to implement and add rights that are provided for in this Statute. The Liberal Initiative considers that this theme deserves the attention of all of us and that all issues related to those who fought for the homeland are relevant and should be the subject of a deeper reflection. The recognition of all those who served Portugal, through the Armed Forces, is unquestionable. We now have the opportunity to discuss the forms in which these rights are effective and we must do so without any hesitation. However, it is essential that this discussion be serious and focused on what really matters: to respond to requests made and to implement the rights provided for in the law, putting aside everything that is accessory, in particular electoral intentions. The Liberal Initiative is available to contribute to the discussion and resolution of this issue and, in this sense, if these initiatives are adopted, we will naturally be available to present suggestions that complement structural measures. This is because we believe that the systematic use of timely remedies has only contributed to increasing these problems. Through a clear, transparent and unequivocal position, in addition to a clear recognition of the dignity that they deserve, we will be providing peace to these men and women. It is necessary to give ex-combatants a dignified, responsible and lasting response. Let us be able to overcome the barriers and dignify all those who, regardless of their position or function, have fought for our country. The former fighters deserve all our respect and gratitude. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u57	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome Mr Ventura and Mr Ventura to this subject, since since this House has already made a number of initiatives and, in the past Parliament, it has not accompanied us in any, at least, any initiative on this subject. Therefore, welcome to this fight for the dignity of the former combatants, which is a matter more than just, despite the delay in their temporality. It is important to remember the way this House has made, whether in the Statute of the Old Combatant, which it is important to carry out — I cannot but appeal to the Socialist Party to effectively implement the whole dimension that is provided for in the Statute of the Old Combatant — whether in the context of what is not only free access to museums, but in what, in the daily life, can give more dignity to these people who have fought in a war that no one wanted, have fought for their country and who, indeed, have not only suffered quite serious sequels and consequences, including in what is, today, their life. As has already been mentioned here, we have former combatants in a situation without shelter. We must not forget that, apart from the issue of the former fighter's card, it is essential to ensure the preparation of the annual report provided for in the Statute of the Old Fighter to understand the various areas of intervention among these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u59	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u60	Even to conclude, Madam President, above all, we will be following these various initiatives, which are of the most fundamental justice, but we hope that the path will not remain here and that the PS, which has already announced its vote against, will be available to rethink its position, because this is something that we hope will not be solved only by the generational leap, but, yes, while we have the former combatants among us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u61	For an intervention, Mr Rui Vilar of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2019, when discussing the Statute of the Former Combatant, the PSD was always available to work constructively with all political forces to approve a statute that met the aspirations and needs of the former combatants. In his proposal for a diploma, the PSD considered it necessary to extend the special pension supplement and the special pension supplement to the widows of former combatants, because the military family could not only be a concept to fill out the preambular of that diploma. We seek to materialize the just and fundamental recognition that is due to these people with concrete measures that represent real changes in their lives. For the PSD, Portugal has a debt of gratitude to the former combatants who were at the service of the country and to whom the sacrifice of their own life was imposed without giving anything in exchange. That is why we asked to point out in 2020 that the adoption of the Statute of the Old Combatant did not represent the end of this work but, rather, its beginning. Today, the PSD remains prepared to pursue this path. in this sense, we cannot disagree with the principle that guides the proposals that are discussed here today. The appreciation of the living conditions of these people should be a cross-cutting objective for all parties, regardless of their political quadrant. However, the proposal that the party arrives is paying attention to the parameters for the allocation of the special pension supplement itself, by seeking to guarantee the same value regardless of the time of service provided. As for the proposals of the Communist Party and the Left Block, the PSD will not hinder them, since there are issues that we believe should not be politicized. For example, where was the CFP when, in the discussion of this State budget, the PSD presented a proposal for the review of the remuneration table for the Armed Forces military? He voted against! Or in relation to the PSD proposal for the establishment of a permanent framework of squares in the Army and the Air Force? He abstained and voted alongside the government. The PSD will not do the same with regard to these proposals submitted by the Left Block and the Communist Party, because, as we have already mentioned, we believe that there are issues that should not be politicized. The PSD's commitment to the former combatants is unequivocal. We know, however, that the socialist majority should bring these proposals down in the same way as it did in the State budget. That is why the most important question must be addressed to the Government and its majority and not so much to the authors of these proposals. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is the government available to do more for the former combatants, the government that, in a context of pandemic and return of conventional war to the European continent, applied a cut in the money for national defence, which justified the extinction of a State Secretary, specifically for the former combatants, the government that rejected, in the debate on the speciality of the State budget, all the proposals submitted by the parties in the field of national defence? Oh, my God! Since it does not present any alternative or openness to discuss, we only have to assume that the former combatants are not a priority for this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u63	Mr Manuel Afonso of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am a Member but I am also an old fighter and I have lived in the skin the horror of war in Mozambique as an operative of a command company. I am part of the long and sacrificed generation of Portuguese who, between 1961 and 1974, fought in Angola, Guinea or Mozambique. That is why all the debate in this House concerning the former combatants is, to me, a cause for particular attention and a renewed concern. So it was when, in a clear, unequivocal sign of change, in relation to the policy of support for the former combatants, the Statute of the Old Combatant was adopted with broad consensus in this Chamber,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... a historic landmark and instrument that, in addition to materializing the recognition of the Portuguese State to the soldiers who fought for the service of Portugal, has contributed markedly to the dignity of their lives and their families. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are discussing, at this item on the agenda, three bills relating, precisely to the former combatants: an initiative of the Arrival, which aims to assign a special pension supplement worth 300 € per month, regardless of the time of service provided, and others, the Left Block and the PCP, which aim to establish a vital supplement of pension and a minimum pension of dignity to the former combatants. Well, it won't be too much to remind the honourable Members. Members, especially those of the Czech Republic, who had been updated in January 2021, with the entry into force of the Statute of the former Combatant, growing from 3 % to 7%. In other words, the special pension supplement doubled last year. Mrs. Members, this is not an extraordinary update that only takes effect in 2021. It also has effects in 2022 and will have effects in subsequent years. This is an update that benefits, above all, those who need the most, increasing the value of social benefit to former fighters with lower pensions, in a clear sense of solidarity to those who have less. In addition, what you arrive ultimately is to convert the special pension supplement, which is paid annually to a monthly benefit. As for the vital complement of the pension and the minimum pension of dignity, proposed by the Left Block and the PCP, we will certainly not underestimate the goodness of these measures, but we must be aware of their budgetary weight and the financial increase they represent. Just as we cannot ignore that these measures may not necessarily benefit those who need the most, even causing situations of iniquity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Left Block and the CFP propose, with the creation of new social benefits alongside those already existing, promotes a total reversal of the contributing logic of our pension system, promoting injustices in the system, which the Socialist Party cannot accept. This is not, of course, about the financial impact on the order of hundreds of millions of euros per year, which calls into question the sustainability of this regime and its own finances. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be recalled that the generality of the measures provided for in the Statute of the former Combatant — which, I stress, has been the subject of broad consensus in this House — is in implementation and implementation, as is the case of the former fighter card, free transport in the metropolitan and inter-municipal areas, the exemption from moderate rates, the free entry into national museums and monuments, the national symbol of the former fighter, the technical unit for the former combatants. Is this enough and we should stay around? Oh, my God! Of course not. We must continue to do more and better throughout the next four years of this legislature, which has still begun. It was precisely in this logic to seek the best solutions that the National Defence Commission has taken — and well! — to set up a working group to monitor issues relating to former combatants and disabled armed forces. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that in recent years the Socialist Party, together with the Government, has made a determined contribution to ensure that the former combatants are honored and valued, as well as to improve their social protection, while ensuring regular increases in pensions and extraordinary increases in pensions lower than all Portuguese, including those who are former combatants. This is the way we want and we should continue to travel, improving the value of pensions and paying sustainably, without jeopardizing the sustainability of social security or — much less! — align in populisms that propose the impossible to blame and criticize those who are obliged not to follow proposals that are financially unsustainable and socially unjust. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u65	No shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u66	The Bureau records the registration of the Arrival to request clarifications, but the PS no longer has time to respond. So Mr Ventura has the floor to make a request for clarification, but he already knows that he will not have an answer, because the PS Parliamentary Group no longer has time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u67	Madam President, I am already used to not having a PS response. Even when they have time, it's exactly the same thing, so there's no big difference. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] Mr President, I have heard you say, as an ex-combatant, how I greet you! — that this proposal is socially unfair. Honestly, I cannot understand how someone who is ex-combatant can say that it is socially unfair to attribute 300 €,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u68	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u69	... as a minimum pension supplement, to some of the men who live on the street today. Men who fought for Portugal and live on the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u71	It causes me some suffocation as you can say it is socially unfair. Then he said that this would put public finances in crisis. Where have we heard that argument? I am going to tell you what you are going to do, Mr President: the money we would spend on giving a minimum pension supplement to all the former living fighters was less than that we spent on waste in the Ministry of Health every year. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It was less, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u72	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u73	I will finish, Madam President. Therefore, if Mr Deputy, as a former fighter, believes that a card is given that allows for free bus trips, but that does not give any benefit to health, does not give dignity at home nor does it allow the acquisition of the necessary goods in the day-to-day, a card that gives harmless benefits to men who have fought for this country, I just wanted the government to be here to give you the five minutes that I would need to be able to justify those men because it is unfair to pay them a minimum pension of 300 € per month. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u74	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u75	Madam President, there are many people who make inflamed speeches about the former combatants and the injustices they suffer, without ever remembering that the first of the injustices — the injustice that has generated all the other injustices — was that they were sent to an unjust war by an outdated and authoritarian regime. Without recognizing this first injustice it is impossible for us to understand the size of responsibility we have. This first injustice makes us owe even more to those who have suffered it, in order to correct the injustices that they now suffer. Therefore, the Free will always support and support measures that have these clear principles in mind: that no ex-combatant has a pension under the national minimum wage, as the PCP and the Left Block say ; that no ex-combatant lives below the threshold of dignity in this country; that all ex-combatants have access to health care and to the follow-up they need. I think it is extraordinary that there are those who say "it is only to end waste in the health sector" when it is chronically underfunded in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u76	There's no waste? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u77	Like anyone who says it's just getting out of the health budget, a budget that's always below the needs of the sector, but it's not worth a lot of going in there. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u78	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u79	I conclude, Madam President. We know very well about some of the injustices suffered by the former combatants, and we know that they are not only born in the dictatorship, but also in democracy, of a very simple fact: that there is politics and politics that, instead of serving the former combatants, use the old fighters.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u81	It's you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u82	It's the PS bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u83	It is to end this that we must follow the measures that really support the former combatants, but do not use them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u84	Make a coalition!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u85	Mr Rui Tavares, you have exceeded your time a lot. To speak, Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u86	Mr President, I just wanted to say that there was no parliamentary group in this House and this afternoon that I had not mentioned that Portugal has a debt to the former combatants. Mr Afonso has even acknowledged that little has been done, that what has been achieved is still insufficient and that it could have gone further. But then, when they can adopt proposals that would in fact change the quality of life of the former combatants, we see that they do not approve them, rather, reject them. They come with the argument that 7 % on the minimum pension is fair, but it would be fairer if it were on the effective pensions of the former fighters and for that the PS is not available.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u87	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u88	Mr President, thanking the tolerance, I just want to say that we reaffirm that it is a missed opportunity not to approve the CFP proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u89	At the end of the debate, we will move on to the closing phase. So to close this debate, Mr Ventura, of the Parliamentary Group of the Czech Republic, who has two minutes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the combatants, who are also in this Parliament, in the galleries,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...and leave a note of deep gratitude to those who fought for our country. It is curious to see parties asking for dignity for ex-combatants, when they are in this House since 1975 or 1976 and the maximum they propose today for them is an increase of 50 €. After all, over so many decades in this House, they never cared about the true dignity of the combatants, but they were concerned about throwing mud and ignominy on them, saying that they belonged to a war of fascism, that they were fascists and that some of them were criminals and should be condemned. That's what we always oppose. These men are alive, they are among us, they are part of our community and they deserve our support. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to guarantee dignity for these men, it is not giving them €50 or an alms, but, yes, assigning them a decent pension — as we want to do — at least €300 per month. Mrs.Jona Mortagua, let me tell you very clearly, face to face, in the presence of these men: fleeing from war is never courage. Whoever flees his country betrays his country, betrays his homeland and is never a hero. [[Congrats from the CH, with Members standing.]] Some of the former combatants gave their lives, gave their freedom and their body to fight for the country we have today, didn't run away to the luxury neighborhoods of France or went to study at the best universities. That's the difference in arriving from the other parties that are here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival does not want to make any historical revisionism of what happened in the Colonial War, either, yes, to give dignity to this community, both to these men and widows who are not among us. We want to tell them that we are with them and that we do not throw on them a cloak of ignominy or historical crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u91	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u92	I will finish, Madam President. We're right next to him. The role they have in history no one will replace and therefore, regardless of their time of service, we want a pension for all. For all and for all, because they are Portugal and we love Portugal. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u93	We move on to the third item on the agenda, which is generally discussed by Bill 76 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Express consecration of the crime of exposure of less domestic violence ( 56. the amendment to the Penal Code), 82 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Making declarations for future memory mandatory at the request of the victim or the Public Ministry, 85 / XV / 1. a (L) — expressly includes exposure, in the examples of what constitute psychic ill-treatment, in the context of domestic violence crime; defines exposure, in the case of children and young people, as sufficient for their characterization as victims and enshrines the frequency of specific parental education programmes in the list of accessory penalties, 92 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of the crime of exposure of less domestic violence ( 55. the amendment to the Penal Code), 96 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Exemption from attempting to reconcile the divorce proceedings without the consent of the other spouse in cases of conviction for domestic violence crime ( Amendment to the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code ) and 97 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Ensures the appointment of employers to victims who are particularly vulnerable ( Amendment to the Victim Statute and Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July 2004 amending the access to law and courts regime ). To intervene and present Bill 76 / XV / 1. a, 96 / XV / 1. a and 97 / XV / 1. the, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor of Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, the data on domestic violence are still worrying and deserve our attention, so we think that we can and should go further in what we as political agents can do in this area. It is necessary to give more voice to the victims and to protect children in particular. Therefore, the bills we present aim to propose solutions to change a reality that shocks us all. We bring the debate to three bills. First, Bill No. 76 / XV / 1. a, which aims to expressly enshrine the crime of exposure of minor domestic violence, because we consider that this situation deserves autonomous criminal protection and that the current wording of article 152. the Criminal Code has not been interpreted in such a way as to adequately safeguard this matter. We also present Bill No. 96 / XV / 1. the, with which we seek to ensure the possibility of dispensation of the attempt to reconcile the divorce proceedings without consent when there has been condemnation of domestic violence. We understand that this is unnecessary diligence, both for the victim and for the courts. It is unnecessary for the victim, because there has already been a process in transit in which the aggressor has been convicted, so the only effect that this conciliation attempt mechanism has is to remind and experience again a whole process that should already be closed. And it is unnecessary for the courts, which, with the approval of this project, would benefit in terms of economic and procedural speed. Finally, we present Bill No. 97 / XV / 1. a, which aims to ensure the appointment of employers to victims especially vulnerable. The Liberal Initiative considers these projects to be an important step towards ending a cycle of violence. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u95	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u97	Sir, I'm sorry. As you were giving me information on your registration, I forgot that the other bills have not yet been presented. I'm sorry, but they have priority. Thus, to present Bill No 82 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We have heard here, often—and well! — inflamed speech against violence or social injustice which must deserve our greatest indignation. But while we're talking about this country outside, countless women are being victims of the domestic violence crime. The same is true of your children, often particularly vulnerable and defenseless victims, without the right having given sufficient answers to their needs. We haven't even arrived in the middle of 2022 and already 13 women died in the hands of domestic violence. If we look at the 2021 Annual Internal Security Report, we see that we have had at least 26 000 occurrences, i.e. 26 000 shares of this barbarity. We're at war, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not just because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. In our country there are victims, women and children, who live daily in terror. They live in war, for the crime of domestic violence, and the legislator has an obligation to take every step and take all measures to protect them. With a serious problem of collecting evidence, it is up to us to accelerate mechanisms to safeguard, for future memory, the testimony of the victims. Of course, so that the collection is faster, more reliable and more detailed, essentially to ensure that fundamental data are not lost throughout the process, but, above all, to avoid the revitalization of the victims themselves. This statement should be taken into account, as the Attorney-General of the Republic himself says, and his genuineness should be guarded in good time, because, as we well know, these crimes are of complex and time-consuming investigation. It is in this sense that the NAP presents this legislative initiative, which aims to ensure that there is no repetition of the evidence and that there is indeed the obligation to take these statements instead of the discretionary power to do so - whether or not, in which the request is often denied to the party's own representatives - in particular when it also affects children - so that they can be submitted with effect for future memory. This is a fundamental element of the process, above all to protect the victims. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, every day we lose girls and women in the hands of domestic violence, just as we also lose men for this horrible crime that continues to happen in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u99	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u100	I shall indeed conclude, Madam President. We have a duty to remember and legislate in order to protect and combat this scourge of domestic violence in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u101	To submit Bill No 85 / XV / 1. Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two principles guided the Book on the legislative initiative he presented on this subject. On the one hand — and I believe that this is common to all parliamentary groups and all parties in this House — the principle of combating a crime which, unfortunately, is very common in our country. How many times are there speeches about insecurity and crime in our country, when we often forget that, district after district, crime, unfortunately, is more common domestic violence? Oh, my God! On the other hand, the principle that we should be guided as legislators of legislative parsimony and of trying not to criminalize something that is then difficult to prove. in this sense, we believe that the exposure of minors domestic violence is already in the law and—although understanding the good objectives of the draft laws of the Liberal Initiative and the Block of Left—we do not believe it is necessary to force the production of additional proof in court, whether in relation to premeditation, the intention or the objectives of the criminal, that then may generate the problem of impunity, which is what we should mainly worry about. That is why the Free has opted for a different strategy. Of course, we understand that the crime falls on two people, the direct victim and the child that he or she assists, and should be aggravated in the first case, in addition to that it must be typified and well described in Article 152. that of the Criminal Code so that there is no doubt that, in the second case, the child attending was also the victim of a crime. However, we believe that the right place to continue this debate is at the heart of expertise. Then we will work with both the Liberal Initiative and the Left Block and with all the parties that have initiatives in this area, so that the first principle—which is the fight against a scourge that should move us all and that unfortunately every day generates victims and destroys the lives of traumatized children, children and children of these victims—leads us to do our work more and better.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u103	To submit Bill No 92 / XV / 1. the Left Block has the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This week, the JN (Jornal of News) reported that Silvia Mendes, the woman shot down on Monday morning in Felgueiras, was 13. the mortal victim of conjugal violence this year. Two days earlier, JN said, it was Celestina Ferreira who, in Arouca, died at the hands of a jealous husband. The number of women killed in the first six months of the year is dangerously approaching the total number of women killed last year. The figures therefore confirm the reality of the most deadly crime in Portugal — euphemistically called ‘marriage violence’ — which is the crime of domestic violence, namely violence against women. At least 20 years have passed since domestic violence became a public crime, which we are spreading the phenomenon and its structural causes. Much has been done since then, but in this struggle, as in others, it is not enough not to take a step back, because stopping is also dangerous. The organizations that accompany feminicides in Portugal have drawn attention to some characteristics of this crime and the most disturbing is that, most of the time, it could be avoided. It is necessary to identify and correct what is failing in the protection of the victims—and I make a parenthesis to draw attention to the proposal for a communication law, which does not prevent the disclosure, in the detailed invoice, of calls made for support lines—and also to call for a reflection on the justice system. Combating domestic violence is not compatible with slowness, conservatism, devaluation or disinvestment in the justice system. I wanted to make this introduction to contextualize the project that the Block brings with regard to the creation of the crime of exposure of less domestic violence, so that children are effectively and automatically considered autonomous victims in cases of domestic violence, not only when they are direct targets of this violence, but when they are subject to testifying to the existence of this violence, as in fact determines the Istanbul Convention. I would like to recall that this was the understanding of the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry on the Government's proposal, which gave rise to the current drafting of the law against domestic violence. at that time, the Superior Council of the Public Ministry pronounced itself for the recognition and consecration of the child as an autonomous, differentiated victim, holder of personal rights and deserving of identical legal-penal protection, rather than being a mere aggravating factor of the crime-base. The Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office has adopted the amendment to the Criminal Code, for the integration of a new type of domestic violence crime, that of the conduct involving children who experience or witness the context of domestic violence. We recognize that in the previous legislation there were advances, although shy. However, these advances do not meet the purpose of the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary nor do they comply with the Istanbul Convention, which is what the Left Block intends to do with the introduction of a new point in Article 152. the Criminal Code. I will not go into the arguments for this amendment. I would like this debate to be consensual, but it seems clear to us that, in accordance with the Constitution, with the Declaration of the Rights of the Child and also with the Istanbul Convention, there is a special duty to protect children in the context of domestic violence that imposes this amendment of the Criminal Code, because it is not effectively achieved. In other words, the recognition of the child as an autonomous victim of domestic violence is not being achieved without this amendment to the Criminal Code. But it is also necessary for the justice system to be effective.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u105	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u106	I conclude, Madam President, by recalling that the specialized sections of domestic violence—which have precisely the function of joining the teams of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the criminal police with the Family and Children's Jurisdiction—, teams that have been set up as pilots, do not have the resources necessary to function and, therefore, the amendments to the law, which are important, require investment in the justice system. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and I shall finish, Madam President, we have no doubt that this is the way: not a step back! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u107	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u108	I'm done now, Madam President. But every time we stop, it weighs on us the responsibility of a suffering that could have been avoided. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u109	Now, for an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have heard, in this House, about who takes advantage of them to try to benefit through them. We have heard some of these loose phrases and we agree with almost all of them, which are common sense, but just go back to the year 2021 to see that Law No. 57 / 2021, approved by this House, is clear when, in relation to domestic violence crimes, classifys the children of the family, puts violence on children and makes this crime autonomous. We therefore do not understand where the Liberal Initiative wants to arrive to legislate on an issue which, in our understanding, is already legislated, including in Article 152. that of the Penal Code, now mentioned by Mrs Joana Mortágua, who says, and I quote, «including children and young people up to 18 years of age who have suffered abuse related to exposure and contexts of domestic violence». We will not continue to trivialize this matter. Mrs. PAN, we are not going to keep making jokes and doing everything to be news, exploring this image,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u112	...because there are women to be killed out there. And not just! There are men who are also victims of domestic violence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u113	All right! Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u114	... there are children suffering from this situation. You continue to try to embolden this situation because in recent days more victims have appeared, but you only take advantage of the victims who are sucking. It is regrettable that they do so, because this is too serious. [[NAP protests.]] Domestic violence is already a crime of a public nature and Mrs PAN presents us with a project that tells us that the victim should make statements. We do not know any association of those on the ground who may consider this to be feasible: you consider that, after physical and psychological abuse, a woman — the victim! — you should still have to make statements.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u115	Go inform yourself! Go and study the subject!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u116	You know, Mrs Deputy, the request for declarations for future memory can only condition the judge when required by the victim himself. You put this in a state where those who see us at home and suffer domestic violence can only consider that, here, if you're playing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u118	We cannot understand where you want to go and you will certainly have a lot of difficulty explaining all this. As for the draft of the Liberal Initiative on the obligation to reconcile cases of divorce in which one of the members of the couple has been victims of domestic violence, we agree. However, this was a proposal submitted by the Czech Republic with paragraph 10. It was now presented by you, with paragraph 97, and therefore made a good copy-paste, but they ruined it at some point, when they added that the victim has the right to the boss, immediately, if that is his intention. Now, it should never be the victim who needs to make that decision. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u119	For an intervention, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a number of legislative initiatives, all of them, with the aim of combating domestic violence, which, as we all know, is a national scourge, a social chaga that matters to eradicate. this week, we were devastated by the sad news that 13 women were already murdered in the context of domestic violence. That is, in six months, nearly as many women as in 2021 have been murdered. In 2020, around 27 000 participations were made for the crime of domestic violence, and in 2021, 26,520 women, men and children were victims of this crime, which deserves the disapproval and constancy of our entire society. in this sense, I would like to greet the proponents of the initiatives for once again bringing this issue to debate. However, despite sharing this concern, we cannot fail to say that we disagree on the paths chosen and that, in fact, they have already been debated in this House. As for the initiative to criminalize autonomous exposure of minors to domestic violence, we differ from it for two simple reasons. On the one hand, because the exposure of minors to domestic violence is already criminalized in Article 152. that of the Criminal Code, not autonomously, is true, but as aggravating to the crime of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u122	On the other hand, because the law expressly began to consider children and young people who suffered abuse related to exposure to domestic violence as victims of domestic violence. Therefore, shielded by a false pretext of protection for children and young people, these initiatives only intend to impose heavier penalties, by way of further amendment to the Penal Code. This, with the aggravating that the aggressor would be punished by a crime contest, which would be as many as children exposed to situations of domestic violence, which does not seem entirely reasonable and would indeed lead to perverse and unjust situations. As regards the initiative to make future memory declarations mandatory, although well-intentioned, we have serious reservations about their kindness, since the law already provides for future memory declarations to the victim's request, the request of the Public Prosecutor — which is, in fact, obliged to do so, in accordance with a directive of 2019. Having said that, the desired obligation no longer guarantees the victim's rights, on the contrary, removes a right which assists him, in accordance with Article 134. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is to refuse to testify.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u123	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u124	As for the exemption from the attempt to reconcile the divorce proceedings in the event of condemnation of domestic violence, we do not see any protection to the victim, on the contrary. It is an initiative that reveals a serious lack of knowledge of procedural practice and is detrimental to the interests of victims of domestic violence. Indeed, in these situations, it makes no sense to promote the reconciliation of spouses. Mrs. Members, the attempt to reconcile is a purely procedural process that rarely or never promotes the reconciliation of spouses, but almost always promotes the agreement of the parties to the divorce by mutual consent, when the necessary assumptions have been found.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u125	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u126	To waive this diligence, as it is intended, is to force the victim to pursue a divorce action without the consent of the other spouse. In other words, it is to subject the victim to an endless, painful dispute, but also to the perpetuation of the conjugal bond, because we all know how morbid these processes are. Mrs. Members, it is clear that there is a broad consensus in this House on this issue, particularly as regards the need to resolve this problem and to act firmly and decisively. So we will put aside the demagogic policies and treat this social cancer with the seriousness it deserves. Let us then do more and better, because that is our responsibility, that is our duty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u127	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have a number of bills dealing with domestic violence, which I will group in three blocks. There are two new projects, of the Liberal Initiative — the others are requisitioned! — on the appointment of an employer to the victims and on the waiver of the attempt to reconcile marriages without consent when the other spouse has been convicted of domestic violence, which deserves some attention. We see some merit in the abandonment of the concept of attempt to reconcile, because we should not try to reconcile the inconclusive, although we admit that it may be useful that there may be a moment in the process for solving questions relating to parental responsibilities or to the home of the family, and therefore this solution must be analysed with great rigour in the speciality. Then we have other bills that want to clarify that exposure of children to contexts of domestic violence is a domestic violence crime. To deal with this matter, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it requires us to look at the deepest suffering of the children who fall asleep at school because they can't sleep at home, the boys who have marks in the body because they put themselves in front of their father when he was going to hit the mother or the teenagers who cut themselves with shaving blades, arms and legs, because they need a quick suffering that distracts them for moments of much greater suffering. This is a horror that we cannot and do not want to ignore, but we will not face it by criminalizing what is already a crime, and the law that we have adopted to clarify this issue has less than one year. I refer to Law No 57 / 2021 of 16 August, which does not allow doubts as to the possibility of children exposed to domestic violence to be victims of an autonomous crime — underlining: an autonomous crime! — domestic violence. Let us turn to statements for future memory and to the claim that adult victims of domestic violence are compulsory. First, statements for future memory are already possible in domestic violence processes. Secondly, the Public Prosecutor's Office is already obliged to promote them. Thirdly, in past legislatures there was in this Parliament anyone who wanted to force victims of domestic violence to testify against their aggressors, but that was not the case. He now insists on this way, wanting to bring in the window what did not, eventually, enter the door to challenge the right to refuse testimony against spouses or former spouses, as provided for in Article 134. the Code of Criminal Procedure. On the contrary, we believe that the autonomy of adult victims of domestic violence should be strengthened. In the fight against domestic violence, we do not want to suffice with easy answers that do not cost money, which are the mere changes contained in the criminal law. We're not looking for face-to-face answers. We need to face this horror and we need to do it in two planes, and we want to talk about them. The first is prevention and domestic violence prevents the promotion of autonomy, because each woman is truly free to make her choices and leave her husband when she can support herself and her children. Therefore, all measures aimed at equality in education, access to work, equal pay for work, reconciliation of personal life with the professional and all measures to access housing or free of charge at day care centres, by contributing to true autonomy, prevent domestic violence. Women with more training, more income and more support from the social state are more autonomous women and therefore less vulnerable. We want to deepen this path, which is the path of the social state. The second is the reaction to domestic violence crimes that have already been committed and, in this context, we need integrated responses, therapeutic responses oriented to healing and criminal justice responses oriented to the protection of the victim and to the removal of the aggressor. We need more electronic bracelets to ensure the removal of the aggressors, more and better foster homes, more efficient responses from the police and the courts, effective support in the promotion of new life projects. in the same year of 2022, many of these answers are already being given or under construction. I give just one example of that which is the right way: by the end of 2022, three residential structures should be built for elderly women victims of violence, with 120 vacancies, in the Center, North and Alentejo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u129	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u130	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that in recent days two women have been killed in the tragic circumstances that we all know. We will honor your memories only if we find better and more efficient answers to all other victims of domestic violence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u131	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to address some aspects, starting by saying that this discussion is more than justified, given the incidence of the crime we are talking about. The new Annual Internal Security Report notes that, despite a slight decline, domestic violence against spouses or analogous spouses continues to be the most abundant criminal typology. So of course there is a need for a more effective fight, and on that we agree. We just don't always agree on solutions. We believe that there is a tendency to put an end to discussion in the legislative amendments, when we need to understand that this crime has a dimension of deep social problem that it is urgent to realize, beyond the law, that it is not being able to prevent. Often, the legislative amendment is easier, but it is less effective and has less practical results. We do not deny that there can always be changes and aspects improving. In fact, we do not absolve the idea that everything is done by law or by law. Even in the PCP, we have contributed at various times to changes in the positive sense for the victims. We would like to say that, from the point of view of the standards that exist today, the issue of child protection is guaranteed in the current formulation. It is not the empowerment of the crime that gives it more or less protection or rests us for having more or less criminal dignity. With regard to the issues of parental education, they are important, but they are also necessary technicians and psychologists, particularly for the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services, and this concrete proposal, for example, was plunged into the State Budget. I am referring to one last question, which has to do with the fact that there are no victims if there are no aggressors. This is an important issue on which we must act, and hence the importance of social reintegration in a crime with a very high incidence, which is one of the main problems we face. If we know what risk factors — health issues, problems that have solutions, that have therapy and that can be combated — we must act around there, and do not continue to allow the perpetuation of cycles of violence and the repetition of behaviors of this kind, from generation to generation. Specifically about the empowerment of the crime of exposure to minors, we do not follow the initiatives because we believe that it is not the absence of the autonomous crime that has been lacking to children, since the exposure is expressly planned in any way. Recently, in the case of children and young people, clarification has been introduced regarding the allocation of victim status, for example. We may talk about other shortcomings and shortcomings, but this is not the question that will make the difference, we believe.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u133	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u134	I will finish, Madam President. With regard to the issue of parental counseling programmes, we feel that this is justifiable, but we believe that the other party, which again has an impact on the issue of a change of wording, is unnecessary. On the obligation of victims to make statements for future memory, such does not seem appropriate to us and may have perverse effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u135	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u136	I will now finish, Madam President. On the dispensation of reconciliation, someone who is a victim of domestic violence and whose spouse, from whom he or she intends to divorce, has already been condemned for this very reason, does not have to confront the aggressor again. Finally, all information and all knowledge about the different stages of the process must be stimulated and we must follow the appointment of patron. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u137	Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Domestic violence in the privacy of the home is, for decades, fueled by violence against teachers in the privacy of the classroom. The regime always attacks the consequences and ignores the causes. Those who transformed schools into centers of socialization of maleducation, indiscipline and violence were left. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If we don't solve what's going on in the privacy of the classroom, we're going to go around with this problem and we're not going to solve it. Therefore, the question of combating what is happening in the privacy of the classroom is absolutely decisive. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u139	To close the debate, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on the autonomous criminalization of exposure to domestic violence by minors is giving us reason. There are Members to say that it is an autonomous crime and that it is an aggravating and cannot be autonomous. However, this clarification is absolutely necessary and this empowerment must be expressed in the law. More: Mr. Members would have had access, as I had, to the Order of Lawyers concerning Bill No. 96 / XV / 1. the, in which they say so, in point 2: « It agrees with the proposed amendment, adhering to the reasons set out in the preliminary draft. Indeed, it seems to us that it is not justified to maintain the demand of the spouse, the victim of domestic violence and the applicant for divorce action without the consent of the other spouse, to participate in an attempt to reconcile. The spouse who is a victim must be able to avoid confrontation with the aggressor spouse when it clearly does not want reconciliation. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, with regard to our proposal for an attempt to reconcile, I would like to ask the PSD whether the Advocates' Order is demagogic, because they sincerely agree with our measure and therefore it is a good measure. As you will well know, domestic violence is a crime that kills thousands of people in Portugal and does not choose socio-economic conditions or ages. The Annual Domestic Violence Monitoring Report for 2020 indicates that in 31, 7% of registered cases of domestic violence there is exposure of minors to such acts. On the other hand, it is also relevant to note that domestic violence caused victims of minor injuries in the order of 35 % by 2020. As you will well know, domestic violence takes several dimensions. Concretising violence in numbers, psychologicality was present in 82 % of situations, physics in 68 %, social status in 15 %, economics in 8 % and sex in 3 %. Unfortunately, the numbers show only a part of this scourge that we cannot ignore. In recent decades, this Parliament has made a recognised effort to approve legislation that combats the reality of domestic violence, which still exists in our society. We have sought to ensure that all victims of this crime are properly recognized and protected and we believe that the three diplomas presented by the Liberal Initiative are another step on this path, which is still long. We are convinced that the approval of these projects is fundamental: in order to implement the protection of children who are exposed to domestic violence and who are too often forgotten; in order to protect the victims of this crime from, at another stage of such a long process, they have to relive memories that will leave them marks for the rest of their lives. The spouse who is a victim must be able to avoid confrontation with the aggressor spouse when clearly he or she does not seek reconciliation, so we must equip the victims of domestic violence of the faculty, if they understand it, to be exempted from the attempt to reconcile. Therefore, we would like to point out to the PS to approve this initiative, discussing the procedures of the procedure in the field of expertise. Finally, it is essential to ensure that these victims — when recognised as particularly vulnerable victims — have the ability to exercise a right which is already generally provided for in the Law on Access to Law and Law No 112/2009 of 16 September but which is often not implemented in good time for it to be exercised. It seems clear to us and pressingly the need for this House to approve, without hesitation, these diplomas and we insist that all parties must vote in favour of them. Fighting domestic violence is a responsibility of all of us. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u141	We therefore conclude the debate on the third item on the agenda. We move on to the fourth point on the agenda, which is generally assessed by Law Projects Nos 48 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary linkage of all teachers with three or more years of service up to 2023, 81 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amendment to the Statute of the Career of Children and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, approved by Decree-Law No 139 -A / 90 of 28 April, and 93 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Extraordinary programme for the linkage of teachers. To submit Bill No. 48 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The public school, free of charge, of quality and for all is inseparable from the existence of valued professionals and in appropriate numbers who effectively respond to existing needs, including that of teachers who have their situation stabilized, valued careers, increased wages and working conditions to ensure compliance with the Basic Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Job precariousness is a cross-sectional reality to various sectors of activity in our country, reaching hundreds of thousands of workers, and reaching a significant part of our school teachers, with profound consequences for these workers, their families, students and the public school itself. Years of house-to-back and family-to-back, years of low wages and almost pay to work, years of incomplete hours, years of uncertainty of placement in the following school year, salary or social protection. This is the reality of thousands and thousands of teachers, who spend 5, 10, 15, 20 years in a precarious situation, without entering the career and without the rights associated with the teaching career. The right to work and to safety at work, provided for in the Constitution, ensuring that a permanent job corresponds to an effective work link, must be fully accomplished.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u144	It is urgent to eradicate all forms of precariousness, also for teachers. In the face of the obvious and growing shortage of teachers in schools, something for which the PCP comes, in fact, alerting for several years, and facing a continuing and deepening precariousness, including by failing to comply with laws adopted in the Assembly of the Republic — as in the case of special technical teachers of specialized artistic education hired, who have been struggling recently at the Arroio School and at the Soares dos Reis School in Porto — measures are required to overcome this situation, to ensure that all students will have the necessary teachers in all disciplines and to guarantee more than fair job stability to teachers. in a context where, until the end of the decade, it is expected that more than half of the current teachers will leave schools, by retirement, each year that passes without measures that resolve the situation from a structural point of view is a lost year with regard to the necessary and urgent implementation of policies for recruitment and enhancement of the teaching career, policies that contribute to the rejuvenation of the profession and to the fight against the problem of lack of teachers. We therefore bring this initiative into discussion, proposing effective measures to combat teacher precariousness, providing for the opening of all competitive procedures for an extraordinary linkage of all teachers with three or more years of service, without prejudice to the links arising from the mechanism of the so-called'standard-work', within the framework of the ordinary external competition. The binding is fundamental to the stabilization of the teaching body and to the dignity of teaching work. The CFP has always argued that each permanent job must correspond to an effective link. Teachers are needed every day in schools and are a fundamental part of the public school to have its doors open to receive all children and young people and thus fulfill their constitutional right to education. If they are needed every day, their bond must be effective. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u145	To submit Bill No. 81 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education is a fundamental pillar of our society and, as we well know, teachers are the cement that holds that same pillar. Although they are crucial professionals for our present and our future as a society, teachers have been successively deformed by governments, in particular by the Government of the Socialist Party, with or without an absolute majority. In recent years, the fado of teachers has been the freezing of careers, the low attractiveness of careers and a long wait for years for integration into it, placements to many kilometres away from home, without any support, and of schools without minimally acceptable conditions. Today, the NAP proposes to put an end to an injustice that arose in 2008, during the last absolute majority of the PS, and it was certain that until 2008 and since the 1990s, it was understood that teachers with a master's degree or doctorate should be bonusd in their integration, regardless of whether such training was taken before or after career entry. The effort to carry out training, regardless of the time when this effort arose, was precipitated. However, in 2008, by the Government's office, it was determined that this bonus was attributed only to teachers who had obtained the master's degree or doctorate after their career integration, leaving out those who had obtained this training in the period when they had a term of employment. In other words, without any rational basis, equal situations are discriminated against and, worse, teachers are told that their lifelong training effort has no recognition on the part of the State, not because it is not useful, but because it was taken at the wrong time. Thus, a factor that obviously gives us better and more prepared teachers is purely and simply devalued. In our view, this discrimination also faces the principle of equality and can hardly be considered constitutional. Therefore, the NAP presents this initiative, which allows to correct such discrimination of dubious constitutionality and demonstrates that, despite having an absolute majority Socialist Party, it will have the opportunity in its hands to dignify and respect all teachers. Just follow us up on this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u147	To submit Bill No. 93 / XV / 1. the Left Block has the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that the public school education system in Portugal is based today on the reproduction of precarious contracts and precariousness. This means that there are teachers with 10, 15 or 20 years of service who have never been able to link to the education system, more so to the school where they are teaching. This results in an injustice, an injustice in the system of linking teachers who, from a certain point of view, adopted a norm-work which, at the time, was said to be used to link the permanent needs of the system, but, in fact, by defining these needs, leaving out thousands and thousands of teachers who, every year, were hired by schools, ended up being a brake to the binding and a guarantee that every year there would be thousands of teachers hired. This has caused two problems. One of them is the instability of the teaching body in schools. When teachers are placed after the beginning of the first period or when they do not have full hours or, in the past, when they belong to more than one recruitment group — which, however, the Left Block managed to negotiate with the Government in the period between 2015 and 2019 — they are not considered for the norm-work, therefore, they are not linked, which obviously creates an instability of the teaching body in schools that is not good for educational quality. The second problem is that precarious teachers are teachers without the right to career. Without right to career teachers are teachers who don't win to work. Precarious teachers are those to whom we ask to move and to whom they do not count the years they worked as precarious — unless they link, these years do not count for their wages. Therefore, a precarious teacher who works 10, 15 years, to 15 years. the year, he's winning the same thing as a teacher who just left college and went to school. A system that works in this way and depends on thousands of deficiencies in these circumstances is a system that is not prepared to face the future. Evidence of this is that in 2025 a third of the 7 students. the 12th. the year will not have teachers at least one discipline, because the system was not able to attract, nor was it able to bind the teachers that it needs, in many circumstances, under unfair conditions. I'm going to set the example of a music teacher. Knowing that Music is a discipline with a low hourly load, a teacher of Music, in a small school in the interior of the country, will never have a full hours of schooling. Never! This means that this teacher will never be linked to public school by the norm-work. This type of injustice is reproducing, it is multiplying and this as we think: "Why are teachers who are systematically and consistently placed in schools, year after year, for 10, 15 years, considered temporary needs of the system and are not considered permanent needs? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ” The problem is that we continue to hire precariously those who are permanently necessary to the system and that is what the Left Block wants to correct. It is necessary to correct the bindings for the future, it is necessary to correct the form of hiring, but we must not forget the injustices that have been committed against those who have been hired for years — and they are thousands of teachers! — precariously. That is what this project aims to do: an extraordinary bond. The government knows how to do it, the Socialist Party knows how to do it. We have already negotiated one in the past and it was successful, originated the binding of thousands of teachers and did not create any chaos in schools, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u149	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u150	I will finish, Madam President. It was possible to start inverting a precarious public school path. Why was that road interrupted? Why can't we continue it now? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u151	Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In more than 40 years, the PSD has not been able even to mitigate indiscipline and bureaucracy in schools. It was enough to be right, it was enough the PSD to be a responsible opposition. The Liberal Initiative will not be entitled to a second innocence. There is no market of knowledge that is worth us, if we do not start by restoring the dignity and quality of public school. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Freedom of choice between public and private education is a programmatic principle of arriving, but cannot be fed by the misery of the most deprived and the middle classes, of whom they can never pay a private education. It's not worth making up the wheel. A public education of quality, financially sustainable and with well paid educators and teachers, can only happen with the previous reduction of curricula and school hours. The PCP and the Left Block are obviously resistant. They present bills for the administrative linkage of teachers without criteria to effective school frameworks and school groupings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u153	Go study!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u154	This attitude explains the curricula and schedules we have: bad and extremely expensive. Worse than that, it is psychologically violent to coerce teachers to a pathological feeling of guilt, punishing them with support and more support, plans and more plans, formations and more formations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u156	... reports and more reports, projects and more learning recovery projects for students who do not study. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PCP protests.]] The arrival will not save this regime because of the horrendous failure of the current school idea. The PS, the PCP and the Left Block will never get rid of the inability to deal with the natural order of the facts. They are unable to cope with the cause of the problems, limiting themselves to wasting money and more money on top of the consequences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u158	What matters has nothing to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u159	... precisely because the left is itself the cause of the serious problems of teaching. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u160	We fight for working conditions, for careers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u161	I add that socialist austerity has remained since the time of José Socrates, disguised as a supposed evaluation of teachers. The observation of the classes is made between professional peers who do not have a clear academic hierarchy among themselves. merit assessments, either'very good' or 'excellent', do not correspond to career progression expectations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u163	The access quotas to 5. a is 7. the steps are killing the nature and the collegial identity of the institution. The socialists opened the highway of compadrio in schools, which poisons the mental health of educators and teachers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Within and outside schools, educators and teachers must free themselves from the mental repression imposed on them, for decades, by governments, by this Parliament and by trade unions. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u164	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The day we lose one of the greatest talents, one of the greatest vocations of our country, Paula Rego, may not be mistaken to remember that being a teacher or a teacher is a profession and is a vocation. It is a matter of technique, which is learned, it is a matter of talent, which is stimulated and encouraged. Therefore, it is an area in which the stability of the working bonds, the empowerment and accountability of the teachers themselves must go hand in hand, if we want a teaching system that responds to the needs of the country and is, above all, focused on their students. There are two main angles in this matter: firstly, the age pyramid of our teaching body is extremely old; secondly, precariousness is a scourge. It is essential that schools that need the same teachers year after year can give these teachers a right link. From that point of view, there is no need to multiply the initiatives. Both the Left Block and the PCP are positive and we will follow them, just as we will follow the NAP initiative, because teachers who decide to do the master's and doctorate should be stimulated to do so, should be encouraged in this qualification, and should not be punished for that. But in addition to approving these initiatives, we must also make a joint reflection on the need to value the career as a teacher. If, in 10 years, very different careers, such as that of chefs, have become enormous social prestige, why is it that today, when so many people want to be teachers, the same prestige does not fall upon this career? Oh, my God! This should also lead us to reflect and legislate well-legislated, so that we can combat the scourge of the lack of teachers that so many students suffer in our schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u166	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP, the PAN and the Left Block present proposals on teachers' career, but what we really know is that we are watching the typical extreme-left theatre that takes care of teachers. The left approved six Budgets, from 2016 to 2021. The left of the management, which today presents proposals on the contracts, tomorrow on the steps, again on psychologists or on any other subject, is the same left that, for six years, had the knife and cheese in hand to impose these and other measures, and did not. From 2016 to 2021, the Minister of Education did nothing to prevent current problems. That is why the voters elect the rulers, but not the unions sponsored by the left he received. What did the PCP and the Left Block do? Oh, my God! They have made the Budgets viable. What did the PCP and the Left Block do to link the recruits that are needed in schools? Oh, my God! They approved the Budgets. What did the PCP and the Left Block do in the internal mobility of the QZP (pedagogical zone tables)? They approved the Budgets. What did they do when the Minister of Education did not review the evaluation of teachers? Oh, my God! They approved Budgets. Now they present bills and say the blame is on other governments. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only said that the blame is on others when there is no work to be done. [[PSD applause.]] Whoever signed the contract with the Government was the Left Block and the PCP. We, PSD, are concerned that today we do not know how classes will be provided for all students.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u168	There's nothing to worry about! They want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u169	We, PSD, are concerned about the lack of 7000 teachers and we're just listening to ads.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u170	If they really cared, they would vote in favour of the PCP bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u171	We, PSD, are concerned that there is an external competition of teachers going along and that different results are announced, even though this external competition has exactly the same rules as others. The PSD yearns for a system of education with motivated teachers, happy and concrete students in inclusive schools, where everyone learns what is needed to succeed in life, regardless of their financial condition. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] It is up to us, PSD, to question, to monitor and to legislate for the government to fulfil its obligation. to the government, it is appropriate to govern. Teachers, students and non-teachers may rely on the PSD to examine the action of the government. We are not available to account for or to deceive anyone. The sacrifices of all deserve our respect, not political exploitation. These initiatives do not represent structural ways of solving problems, nor do we consider them to be pure political propaganda. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u172	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These proposals are indeed common. They are parties that have been part of the management or that have supported this governance and are therefore, yes, relevant to the state to which we have arrived. We have a government and government partners that were not reformists and subjects that are not surprising. The aging of the teaching class, the difficulty of retention of teachers, the excess of bureaucracy: all these problems are structural and do not appear from day to night. They are happening, they were predictable and represent a lack of vision and governance. That is why we have come to this situation. With a whipped class, a system of politicians that fails children and teachers, we are facing a set of initiatives on which, obviously, if we do not approve some, they will be ready to cry out that we do not approve them. What they don't say is that they're old-fashioned measures. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] What they do not say is that it is stated in the admissibility note that they are administrative measures which seem to interfere with the exercise of the administrative competence of the Government by the rules in question. This is the quality, or the lack of it, that comes from here...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u174	It's fighting the precariousness of teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u175	Sorry to interrupt, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u176	Aparts are regimental!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u177	The people who are listening to us at this time do not hear the distances, but your indignation and discomfort are simply signs of what they have not done and of the situation for which they are responsible. Education is in this illustrious state because of this government and the parties that supported it. They can cry, they can make apart, but the situation of children and teachers is the one that exists. On the contrary, the Liberal Initiative calls for an effective reformist model of education not of the things that the party is talking about, whose criticisms do not apply in our case. It is necessary, yes, tenders, terms of binding, progress, evaluation. A reform is needed through the participation of schools and effective autonomy. The pedagogical councils and schools must have a voice, the teacher's assessment system, which has been mentioned, namely quotas, should be redesigned, in a way too — I stress, too — and not only to mirror the impact of the teacher's work on student learning. The very ability to teach has to change. It has to change the basic education degree that needs the degree of teacher in order to be able to teach as well as teachers or potential teachers with pedagogical skills who cannot enter the teaching. It is this destructed system that we have today. But to renew this whole wave of teachers, we need, either as a society or as a politician, to be ready for it, but not with political demagogy. Therefore, we really need reforms in a non-centralised system, which, despite the more remedies that it takes, is not finding a cure in a system that is tired, which is overbureaucracy and lack of competition between schools, which is also necessary. It is important to appeal to the reformist sense: attraction, retention, flexibility, freedom and competition in educational institutions. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u178	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To that end, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u179	Madam President, Mrs Carla Castro, just one question: if the public school is such a big disgrace, who made the most qualified generation ever? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u180	Mrs Carla Castro has no time to answer and therefore remains the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u181	The PS can give me time! If you want me to answer, you just have to give me time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Lúcia Araújo da Silva, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects under discussion have as their object the extraordinary program of linkage of teachers with three or more years of service, the recruitment and mobility regime of teaching staff and measures to combat the shortage of teachers of basic and secondary education. The initiatives provide for the opening of a competitive procedure, which is an administrative act which appears to overlap with the exercise of administrative competence of the Government, if we interpret correctly the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. Mrs. Members, in recent years, through the implementation of educational policies of the governments of the Socialist Party, we have seen profound changes in public school, a school where all students count. This is a school that presents strategies that allow learning to all students, and not just some, a fact translated by quantifiable results, such as, for example, at early school dropout levels, where Portugal exceeded the European average, in the remarkable improvement of school outcomes, with a reduction of more than 70% in the retention and withdrawal rates of basic education, or in the increase of secondary school completion in three years. These results allow us to have more students attending higher education. The results achieved are not achieved by themselves, but by means of a set of public measures for education and its application, where — of course! — the action of teachers is particularly relevant and determining. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proponents of the initiatives currently under discussion allude to the fact that the lack of teachers occurs through a set of identified causes, which goes through the aging of teachers and the precariousness and devaluation of the teaching career. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the perception of reality is certainly made by different lenses, since the constant narrative of saying that everything is wrong, that nothing has been done, and the fact that for a long time news has emerged, behind news about unemployed teachers has contributed to creating the idea of teaching career being unattractive, and that has distanced young people from this profession. It is unquestionable that the governments of the Socialist Party have, over the past six years, put the education and appreciation of their professionals in their priority policies. It did so through a set of measures drawn up in the opening of annual vacancies that ensured the entry of more teachers into the frameworks, the more comprehensive approach of the so-called norm-work, the defreezing of careers, the return to progress and investment in continuing training, which are measures that seek to enhance the teaching career. The most recent external competition will allow the completion of more than 3000 vacancies, in order to enable the linkage of teachers who will complete three contracts or two renewals on 31 August 2022 in full time, with a view to meeting the norm-work. Since the whole process of meeting the permanent and temporary needs of teachers for the next school year is already under way, it would clearly be counterproductive to make any changes, taking into account the complexity of these mechanisms. In other words, any extraordinary mechanism introduced at this time would call into question the opening of the next school year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u184	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u185	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Ministry of Education is attentive and committed to finding the best solutions for the lack of teachers, a situation that will only be resolved with solutions that allow for greater agility in the management of new human resources, which should be included in the new legal framework to negotiate with the unions. It is also the intention of the Ministry of Education to review the models of initial teacher training, recommencing the remuneration of professional internships and the scientific-pedagogical updating of teachers who want to return to career, this being a structural measure that will enable the current shortage of resources to be resolved. As a transitional measure, measures are being implemented to mitigate the shortage of teaching resources, such as the lifting of penalties, by refusal of hours, and the authorisation to supplement hours for support and compensation classes, particularly in regions most affected by lack of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is still much to be done, it is true that much has already been done in favour of the valorisation of public school teachers. Thus, as stated in the XXIII Government Programme, the revision of the model for the recruitment of teachers is envisaged, already transmitted to the trade union structures of the sectors, and this being a structural reform, the same cannot be done at cuts, will have to be done in an integrated way to ensure a model of balanced and lasting access to the teaching profession. We cannot repeat the mistakes of the past, when revisions were made to the recruitment model, out of respect, for the appreciation of the teachers themselves, for the benefit of the students and for the guarantee of better education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u186	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have just heard the intervention of the Socialist Party and it seems that education lives in a pink world. However, let us go to the facts: by 2030, some 34 500 teachers will retire; in May 2022, the Minister of Education, who behaves as if he had arrived at the Ministry now, but who has been in office for almost seven years, said he will now take steps to deal with such a serious problem. The lack of teachers is not a new problem, it is a persistent problem, which has worsened in recent years and that the Ministry of Education has pushed the belly. The discourse of dignity of teachers is an illusory speech. We well know that your mantra is: "It was the PSD government that frozen the teachers' career, imposed austerity, etc. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u188	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u189	But it is appropriate to tell the story as it is. It was the Socialist Party that frozen, thawed and froze the time of service again, but it is expected, because it has the knife and cheese in its hand, which solves the matters that were brought here today and which are within the competence of the government. Now, if the government is so idle of its powers and what it claims to be of its decision-making sphere, we are waiting for — “Caesar what is Caesar’s! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We end the pedagogical folklore and solve the real and real problems of students and teachers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u190	To conclude this item on our agenda, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u191	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: Today's debate on the proposals put forward, in particular the proposal from the CFP, concerns the extreme need to ensure stability for teachers of our schools who have been in a precarious situation for many years, which, moreover, has shared responsibilities between PS and PS governments - we remember the PS government of bad memory, and the attack that was made on the teachers by Minister Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues. But, Mrs.Claúdia André, we remember more here: we remember the direct responsibility of the PSD in the reel he gave on 25. the hour, and that took time away from the teachers. Six years and five months of service time... [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u192	Do you remember? Ms. Diana Ferreira ( PCP ). —... that you are responsible for not being accounted for. They gave their hand to the PS at that time, as they gave their hand to the PS at other times,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u193	But it was the PCP that approved the State budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u194	... when they rejected CFP proposals that structurally solved the problems faced by teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u195	But it was you who approved the State budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u196	Madam Member, assume your responsibilities and responsibilities of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u198	Take on the responsibilities of the cuts in wages, the cuts in the Christmas allowance, the holiday allowance that has reached thousands of teachers...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u199	But it was you who approved the State budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u200	It was six budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u201	Take up the words of MP Monica Quintela from the PSD who said, a few weeks ago, that it was to stop paying salaries to the public service and it was a presin! [[PCP applause.]] Teachers are civil servants. What is clear from the remarks made by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular the honourable Member, the honourable Member is not concerned about the teachers...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u202	We are, we are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u203	What is clear is that teachers cannot count on PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u204	They can, they can!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u205	How can they not count on the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u206	It wasn't us who were in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u207	How you can't count on Arrival to solve your problem of precariousness. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] The central question that arises here is whether teachers can or can not count on the Socialist Party and what I use is that the Socialist Party will give the absolute majority it has. Mrs. Members, if you reject this proposal from the CFP, with regard to the resolution of the precariousness of teachers, the message is that they are imposing on teachers a reality in which they have no link, they have no wages, they have no rights. They are effectively denying the appreciation of the teaching profession, which is absolutely decisive. This with all the historical responsibility that you have to bear. Members must devalue the teaching profession and question the public school and its quality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u208	Mrs. Members, let us now turn to point 5 of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of Bills Nos 71 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change specific activities associated with compensation in family health units in order to eliminate gender discrimination in clinical practice and 88 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — eliminates gender discrimination in the compensation criteria associated with the specific activities of doctors. To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They will certainly remember the debate we had not long ago, because an indicator of incentives for family doctors associated with voluntary interruption of pregnancy had a double problem: I made a moral judgment on women who decide to break the voluntary interruption of pregnancy and penalized doctors as if it were a failure of their work in family planning. Well, the working group itself realized that this indicator could not be applied, abandoned it, but there is a data from this debate with the Minister of Health that is important and that we propose to correct. The Minister of Health said, when she was still trying to defend the indefensible, that the 2007 decree of law, which includes the incentives for doctors in the USF (family health units), refers to family planning for women of childbearing age and for others, which distorts and makes everything — reproductive health, sexual health, in general, control of sexually transmitted infections — falls on women of childbearing age. It is a kind of moral judgment about the sexual behavior of women, much more than a public health policy and what we propose is to end prejudice, even because prejudice hurts health. I wanted to share some concerns. First of all, as we all know, reproduction is not just a matter of women. It is a matter of women, it is a matter of men, it is a matter of all people of fertile age. After that, sexually transmitted infections are certainly not a matter of women alone. It is a matter of women, it is a matter of men and it is a matter of all sexually active people, because, beyond fertile age, there is the right to a healthy sexual life. Therefore, there are many mixed prejudices here: a patriarchal prejudice, of judgment of the woman's body, heteronormative prejudice and also a prejudice of age, making the sexuality of people beyond fertile age invisible. This creates health problems. Let's go to the numbers: the last study that was done about young people is worrying, because it says that less condom is used than has already been used. It even says that young people know less than the generations of 10 years ago about sexually transmitted diseases and infections. We already know — that is another debate — that there is no talk of sex at school, there is no sex education and therefore that is another problem. This study also says that boys are the least familiar and also those who ask the least, because of a patriarchal prejudice that causes men not ask questions about their own sexuality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u210	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u211	Therefore, it is denied to boys in school, is denied by prejudice and is denied in access to health. I know that there may exist in theory, but it is not encouraged that there are consultations on sexual and reproductive health in the family health units. When we look at sexually transmitted infections, we also see how prejudice harms health. He only called attention to HIV/AIDS ( Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome ) numbers. Unfortunately, Portugal has late diagnoses, it is one of the most diagnosed countries in the European Union — we must not therefore be happy! — and 90 % of these diagnoses are on men and not on women. I know that men who have sex with other men have some consultations and specific programs on this matter, but, as we know, most infections have to do with heterosexual relations, so they all get off the radar. More: 11% of women infected with HIV/AIDS are over 60 years old and therefore are also off the radar, because they are no longer fertile. What's the Block's proposal? We end up with prejudice and put the incentives where they should be: sexual and reproductive health consultations for all sexually active people—including trans people, who also have obvious difficulties in access to health. It's good for health to end hypocrisy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u212	To submit Bill No 88 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Eliminates gender discrimination in the compensation criteria associated with the specific activities of doctors, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We talk about family planning when we could, and should, be talking about sexual or reproductive health, far from social prejudices or even morals, which have often guided these themes. I am rebuffing the debate that, in some way, we have already had here, in which the Minister of Health strongly argued that the proposal to amend the criteria associated with medical activities in the family health units was not an attack on women's reproductive rights, in this case, but on sexual rights, but civil society — and well— understood that this was not, making it clear that, in fact, the right to voluntary interruption of pregnancy (IVG) cannot be dependent on medical assessment and cannot be removed from an important debate which has to be based on equality. For this purpose, access to sexual education, contraception, emergency contraception, screening tests and, if necessary, voluntary termination of pregnancy should be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u214	It's abortion!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u215	In fact, we must bear in mind in this debate that any limitation on access to this right does not prevent the procedure. It does not push anyone into the procedure, but it does not prevent him — we must have the honesty of recognizing — it only prevents the same from being done without the security conditions that any woman should have in order to carry out this practice. It is a fact that the DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ) and the Ministry of Health may say that this proposal has already been dropped, but until we change the legislation itself, the truth is that there is an burden impeding on women who do not impose on men. We therefore present a legislative proposal for the removal of the burden of family planning solely from the woman, with the word 'people' and not just 'women', because we cannot continue to defend the rhetoric of the boys will be boys and that this prevention continues only in the sphere of women. But I think we should also promote a wider debate. In spite of these legislative changes that we are discussing today, we should begin to talk not only about a family planning perspective but also about sexual and reproductive health, because it is not only in the family context that this information should happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u216	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Cordeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block and the NAP present here two bills that, by changing activities associated with compensation in the USF-B, aim to eliminate gender discrimination in clinical practice. In particular, these two initiatives are intended to amend the current wording of Article 29 ( a ). o Decree-Law No 298/2007 of 22 August 2007. Both initiatives are similar, although they have different scopes. For the purposes of this article, the current legislation refers to Article 29. the annual surveillance, in family planning, of a woman of fertile age. The Left Block proposes that reference should not be made to « family planning », passing the annual surveillance to be carried out within the broader scope of « sexual and reproductive health» not only of women of childbearing age but also of a « person of childbearing age or sexually active age ». On the other hand, the NAP maintains the scope of family planning, changing only the reference "woman" to "people" of fertile age. We understand the intention of the proposers and agree that, whether in the context of family planning, whether in a broader context, all persons of childbearing age and/or active sexual life should have surveillance in primary health care, monitoring this not only in reproductive health, but also in sexual health, for prevention, detection and monitoring of sexually transmitted diseases or infections. Therefore, we agree with a more comprehensive scope surveillance which is based on the unit assessment criteria. However, it seems to us that in order to fully meet its objective, these two projects should also amend Article 38 ( 3 ). the same decree, subject to the penalty that these amendments proposed to Article 29. It may make no sense. It's just, sirs. Members, Article 38 ( 3 ). o — which relates to the modalities of incentives — refers to Article 29. the, which you change, but, if not also changed, will continue to refer — and I quote — to the « surveillance of women in family planning », for the allocation of monthly financial incentives. So, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Liberal Initiative reiterates that it accompanies the concern of the proponents of these two bills in their two essential points, the elimination of gender discrimination and the extent of the scope of surveillance that should be not only in the context of family planning and reproductive health, but also in all sexual health for the prevention, detection and monitoring of sexually transmitted diseases or infections.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u218	They are the Left Block with credit card!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u219	It is, in fact, a relevant matter, which should deserve the full attention of health professionals and which should be careful and weighted on the criteria for incentives and compensation for USF-B. in this sense, the Liberal Initiative will not impede these bills, although we have reservations about how they are drafted, since, as I said, they may not meet their objective with the proposed editorials. I add that we are fully available to contribute so that these bills can be worked and improved in the field of specialty. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u220	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u221	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These bills are nothing more than proof that there is a complete investment of values in the policy of both the Left Block and the PAN. We now have a fully exhausted National Health Service, we have news about an excess of brutal mortality every week, we have queues for access to health, we have more than 1 million and 300 thousand Portuguese without a family doctor and your priority is to come here to rewrite Portuguese legislation so that you can meet your ideological advances. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u222	This is nothing more than a bold attempt at social engineering. They want to try to change biological reality with a language dissociated from human biology. to abortion they want to call voluntary interruption of pregnancy and until now they say only IVG — there is nothing more harmless than a beautiful acronym! Euthanasia, being also a hard reality, wants to "golden the pill" in the true sense of the word, and they call it deferred death, assisted death or early death. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And, in these proposals, say what is the scientific or medical reason for changing « women of childbearing age» to « people of childbearing age»? When we talk about planning pregnancy or health in gynecology, uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes are female organs, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And if you have any doubts, you should go back to 6. the year of education. So you're gonna want to put men in gynecology consultations next? Or women in urology consultations? Have judgment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let the medicine work in peace.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u224	Do you want to force men to become pregnant? Or do you want to force men to abort? No, they cannot come here to propose family planning consultations for women to become « people of fertile age ». This is completely anti-scientific.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u225	Sure! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u226	And here we are, gentlemen. Members, a conflict between medical science and your unicorn ideology. I'm going to give you a biology lesson I: sex is a biological factor and the human species is sex. There are two sexes in the human species. In Medical Semiology we can learn that sex is a basic and determining parameter of the evaluation of the patient in the anamnesis, in the physical examination and in all clinical management of the patient. This one, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a red line that you will not pass.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u228	We know, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, in birth certificates, there are only children and girls. And, for example, with the COVID-19 pandemic, when we look at the epidemiological bulletins, we also see only, in mortality, men and women. Therefore, the biological truth of the human being is not alterable, not even by decree. [[Congrats from the CH.]] At this bench, we reject — and I repeat — this anti-scientific, anti-cultural agenda and the destruction of the natural family. Your benches make a permanent attack on our roots, on everything that characterizes us as women and men, with a personal human identity. For the Left Block and for the PAN, when ideology does not really matter, the reality changes; it completely overturns itself, and by decree even, the biological and anthropological reality of the human being. Then, this project of the Left Block assumes, in its title — see well — that it is “to eliminate gender discrimination in the compensation criterion associated with the specific activities of doctors” — cited. Now, he assumes that there is discrimination, but, Mr. Members, throughout the medical career, supplements, incentives and salaries, all of this is completely blind to the sex of doctors. The pay tables do not discriminate between the sexes of physicians, nor do the analytical criteria in clinical practice. [[BE's protests.]] It's true! For all this, these projects will finally have a party and a political force in arriving which is a wall of steel against your attempts to destroy our civilization. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u229	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u230	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they won't pass! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u231	Mr President, the Bureau records the registration of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real to make a request for clarification, to which he will not be able to answer, because he has wasted his time. Still, you have the floor, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u232	Madam President, I shall leave the question to Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão because it seems clear to me that the honourable Member and the honourable Members. arriving Members do not know the distinction between gender identity and issues related to biology. [[CH protests.]] That's not what we were talking about! He asked why we included the expression « people of fertile age ». Well, we're not just discussing gender identity issues, we could be doing it, but that's not the case! That I know, Mr. Deputies, a child does not make himself alone and the burden of prevention must not be solely on the woman. This is the masculine and patriarchal vision that has prevailed, but be aware that they can try to build steel walls in our country that will not pass away, because we are a democratic, inclusive society that respects the human rights of men, women and also trans people. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u233	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block initiative is good and deserves support. It identifies discrimination which was in the law and which had practical consequences, corrects it and therefore does what is to be done in the framework of legislation. As everyone in this House knows, but outside this House many people do not know, the only Members do not have the same privileges as the scheduling of initiatives and therefore their initiatives should be dragged. When we saw the Block initiative, we sought to see if there was any need to add or decrease what it contained, but there was, just as there was no need to seek synonyms or add or decrease commas. That is, the debate that began with the metric of doctors should not be confused with the metrics of Members. It is with great pleasure that we will vote in favour of this initiative. We see with some wonder that a party that had on the program that the family was the unit created by a man and a woman, in fact, was the only time that the word woman appeared in that program, now I think that in family planning consultations, men should not fit. I don't know if they're still going in time to fix your program, but it's certainly worth consulting you so you don't get into blatant contradictions when you try to do...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u235	You have a hearing problem! That's not what was said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not engage in dialogue. I ask Mr Rui Tavares to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u237	One thing is the hyperbole of trying to make a legislative amendment to the fall of Western civilization, but now try not to do so by entering into blatant contradiction with your own programme that you have been presenting for four months. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u238	For an intervention, Mrs Berta Nunes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the establishment of the technical support group to review the model of the organization and functioning of the family health units, whose report we expect to know by the end of this month, this does not prejudice our participation in the discussion of the initiatives in attendance. We follow these proposals in general, as these issues of sexual and reproductive health and gender equality are central to the policies of the Government and the Socialist Party. We intend, as a specialist, to contribute to the improvement of the criteria of specific activities associated with compensation for Type B FUS, namely the current criterion of surveillance in family planning of women of childbearing age, extending their scope for monitoring sexual and reproductive health of a person of childbearing or sexually active age. This will eliminate gender discrimination that assigns women responsibility for family planning and includes man as an active and responsible element, in family planning and sexual health, particularly in the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, which implies the use of condoms, and this is the use of the responsibility of man and woman. It is also intended, in this monitoring of a person of childbearing age or sexually active age, to include sexual health not solely linked to reproduction, but also to the well-being, in the definition of the World Health Organization, health as a state of physical, mental and social well-being and not only to the absence of disease. It is also possible — and we believe — to replace the word « surveillance » in the criteria for specific activities by the word « follow-up », including the person as an active and informed part in the maintenance of his/her health or in the prevention of complications of chronic diseases included in the criteria such as hypertension and diabetes in the present case. These initiatives for the genesis of a law that avoids gender discrimination and does not only link sexuality to reproduction deserve our agreement. We intend to contribute, in the specialty, to improving the scope of the laws now presented, based on the values of gender equality and respect for people's autonomy and self-determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u240	For an intervention, Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The technical group supporting the review of the model of organization and functioning of the family health units proposed that the indicators associated with voluntary interruption of pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases should be included in the evaluation of the clinicians of the FHS Model B. In the specific case of the proposal presented, it was determined that the lower the number of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases in women, among other indicators, would be the better the evaluation of teams. Indicators of absence of IVG and absence of STI(sexually transmitted infection) allegedly aimed to promote more effective intervention by family physicians in sexual education and family planning activities. The technical group considered that it did not intend to undermine the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy, namely freedom and the right to choose women, but that is exactly what it did. The PSD Parliamentary Group today considers, and since the first minute, that this is a disrespecting proposal for women's rights and a highly penalizing one for health professionals. In the face of the outrage of the PSD bench, Ms. Minister of Health, in the hearing held in the context of the assessment, in the specialty, of the State budget for 2022, argued that the fact that the voluntary interruption of pregnancy entered the evaluation of family doctors, and I quote « obviously, does not penalize neither users nor the doctor ». With this statement, the Minister did not demonstrate any flexibility in relation to second understandings and even expressed her indignation at the PSD's position in defence of the rights of women and family doctors. We are not surprised at this attitude because the lack of humility of guardianship has been repeatedly demonstrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u243	Fortunately, the proposed technical group had another sensitivity, welcomed the various feedbacks and decided well to withdraw the proposal 24 hours later. In fact, on the day following the presentation, the technical group intended to withdraw the indicators, absence of IVG and absence of ITS, from the proposed revision of the criteria for assigning weighted units to the specific activities of professionals included in Model B USF to be recognised, and I quote that ‘the indicators concerned are susceptible to undesirable readings’. In the words of the coordinator of the group for the reform of primary health care, João Rodrigues, and I also quote, «there are technically good but socially bad indicators, and these were cases of these ». The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes this step back and the request for an apology made by the technical group, and I quote « to all the women who felt offended with this proposal ». We would like to have seen a similar attitude on the part of the Minister of Health who, after a thorough defence of the indicators, did not mention the subject again after the proposal was revised. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group agrees with the need to defend measures that encourage family planning and ensure access to information and effective methods of contraception for women and men, but other indicators that do not deal with fundamental rights acquired or result in the criminalization of health professionals will have to be found. We reiterate that the way to develop is primarily through the promotion of the attractiveness of the SNS to health professionals. Attracting doctors and loyalty to them is only possible with decent working conditions, incentives and, above all, respect for the profession and professionals. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no reform of primary health care, without doctors. Nothing will serve to reformulate evaluation grids if there are no professionals to assess, which is, today, the great problem of the SNS, a problem that needs to be solved in order to ensure the universal access of Portuguese to health, meet the aim so repeatedly postponed to assign a family doctor for each user and ensure the quality of care response in proximity health care. May this be the main focus of reforms for primary health care because, yes, for the PSD Parliamentary Group, this should be a national wish. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u244	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The two bills we are considering today provide for changes associated with compensation for the specific activities of the doctors of the USF. in the first observation, the CFP is very concerned about these models of care based on productivity incentive payments. It's just, sirs. Members, the provision of care based on models that presuppose productivity forgets those that are the actual needs of the users, because it does not see the user according to the need for health promotion and disease prevention, but rather, as another number to fill out Excel leaves to obtain indicators at the end of the month and at the end of the year. This is a concern, even because users should be seen on the basis of user-centred results and not in processes or, in particular, in acts. What counts, in these models, are the acts and not, in itself, the results of the benefits of health gains to the population. in this sense, it should also be noted that this model indicates the path of privatization of primary health care, particularly of the USF model C, which is very dangerous. It makes another deeply unfair thing that it is to create discrimination, mainly inequalities in pay conditions, depending on what is a functional unit, the USF, as opposed to other functional units, as if other functional units, such as USP (public health units), or even the UCC ( community care unit) or the URAP ( shared care units), did not provide the same care. In all of them, the CFP has argued that there are no discrimination, inequities in terms of remuneration. Returning to the discussion of family planning, which is a fundamental component in the provision and access to health care, this represents a conquest in terms of the rights to sexual and reproductive health of men and women, but, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of the woman. Mrs. Members, they are the ones who support unplanned or unwanted pregnancies, they are the ones who bear the guilt they are attributed to because of the failure of contraceptive methods, and many even have to do with man, they are the ones who suffer the damage to their professional career. What I mean by this is that we understand and accompany the concern that there is a need to extend this involvement in family planning to men. It is necessary to do this, but the challenge that lies before us, and considering the position that the PS here assumed to take to the specialty the work of this project, is how we will be able not to lose the gains that we had in relation to the woman in terms of family planning and to be able to win...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u246	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u247	I'm done now, Madam President. As I said, above all, the challenge is to ensure that these changes to the law do not mean to devalue the family planning that was achieved for the woman, but that they allow to win and extend the man's involvement in this same family planning. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u248	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate. To conclude, Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I note that, with the exception of a single parliamentary group, we all agree that there is a need for sexual and reproductive health issues to cover all people, men and women, without discrimination. There was only one strange intervention here that was the intervention of the Arrival and, if I understood correctly the intervention of Mr.Lega, nor does it pass from his head that a man is called to talk to a doctor about family planning or sexual health and sexually transmitted infections, which is extraordinary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u250	That's already happening!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u251	Mr President, I was listening to your statement and thinking as follows: Does the honourable Member of the Kingdom not know that men also reproduce, which are also part of reproduction? Do you not know that men may have sexually transmitted infections? In fact, there is a study that tells us that 60% of the boys in Portugal have many doubts, but I think the percentage is higher on that bench...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u252	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u253	That is why access to sexual and reproductive health consultations for men and women in this country is so important for the health of all, even for those who are unable to conceive these matters as central. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u254	Holy ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u255	I would also briefly like to say the following: of course, in the specialty this project must be improved, we think that yes, a problem has been detected and we are trying to correct it. In fact, we are trying to correct one of the many problems we have in this area, and even in this legislation there will be more questions. We understand the need to increase coverage without diminishing women's rights, and this is also one of our concerns, but we believe that women are also more defended the more men are called to sexual and reproductive health issues, of course. Having said this, I am glad that the Socialist Party also agrees now, but it would also be good if we were to agree to assure everyone that these consultations would be a reality. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u256	We have reached the end of our agenda, but not the end of the session. And, therefore, I give the floor... [[CH-protests and BE-protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no dialogue. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] Mr. Chaplain, please. There is no dialogue, because we are at another stage of the session. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to give us the usual information.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform the House that you are a member of the House. Deputies Pedro Cegonho, of the Socialist Party, Emília Cerqueira, of the Social Democratic Party, Luís Capoulas Santos, of the Socialist Party, Ana Isabel Santos, of the Socialist Party, and João Torres, of the Socialist Party, attended the work by videoconferencing, because they were in prophylactic isolation. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-08.u258	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary meets again tomorrow at 3 p.m. The first item on the agenda, which was required by the PS, consists of the joint discussion of Bills Nos 74 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable, and amends the Penal Code, 5 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code, 83 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code, 111 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code, in general, and draft resolution No 62 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Conduct of a referendum on the decriminalization of assisted drug death. At the second item on the agenda, we will have a vote on the Rules of Procedure. We are now at the end of our session. I wish everyone a good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 6 minutes.]]
