ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. It is up to us, the largest parliamentary group in this Chamber, to observe the parliamentary tradition that, in the case of the outgoing President, he does not find himself present, to designate, in the light of the Rules of Procedure, the one or one of us who will preside today at the sitting. First, however, I would like to stress that this is a moment of beginning for all of us and, consequently, I would like to greet the 230 Members elected by the expression of popular, free and democratic vote, as only April 25, 1974 allowed us. This moment, which is a moment of beginning and beginning, also has this symbolism — 230 representatives of the freely elected Portuguese people — so each of us has not only the responsibility and duty to represent those who voted in us, but also the duty to contribute, as always, to make Portugal a better territory, with more effective public policies and happier citizens. This is also a time when we should remember who left. And, from this bench, we must not fail to mention President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, a president in whom we are proud to have voted and who we believe, ethically and republicanly, has fulfilled his mandate in a single way. [[P.S. and PS.P.D. Ms Lina Lopes.]] Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues came to the path of other presidents of this Chamber — from different political parties, one must point out — that they have honored the Portuguese Republic and democracy. Therefore, this parliamentary group wants to express not only gratitude but a strong recognition to Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues. As I said, what I am going to do is indicate that or that of us, who will preside at this first session. Thus, highlighting her, very rightly, for all the work she has done and also for having been a copy Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic in the previous Parliament, she welcomes me, on behalf of the Socialist Party, to invite Mrs Edite Estrela to preside over this session. [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]] [[With the consent of the Assembly, he took the presidency of the PS Edite Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u2	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials of the Assembly of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and Mr. Officers of authority, whom I thank for opening the galleries, please. In my capacity as President-in-Office and in accordance with the parliamentary procedure, I ask the two largest parliamentary groups, the PS and the PSD, to indicate two elements to join the Provisional Bureau that will ensure the conduct of the work. Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u3	Madam President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group indicates Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u4	Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u5	Madam President, I welcome you and the other colleagues. The PSD Parliamentary Group indicates Mr Duarte Pacheco to assume the seat of Secretary of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u6	I therefore invite Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha and Mr Duarte Pacheco to take part in the Bureau. Also with the Assembly's consent, those Members occupied their seats in the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, when starting the work of this XV Parliament, I greet the Members of Parliament and the Members of the six parliamentary groups - PS, PSD, Arrival, Liberal Initiative, PCP and Left Block - and the only Members of the PAN and the Free Book. to those who have been re-elected I dedicate to them the verses of Miguel Torga :"Recommence... (...) / As long as you do not reach/ Don't rest. - Of no fruit you only want half. Do not keep on seeking. ” Allow me a word of welcome to those who for the first time have the privilege and responsibility of representing the Portuguese people in this House. I wish everyone a good mandate. This House is a demonstration of the quality of democracy. I therefore wish that, together with respect for the plurality of opinions, we can contribute with our action, with our example, to the progress of the country and the improvement of the quality of life of our fellow citizens. Let me also say a special word of thanks to the former President of the Assembly of the Republic, Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, of whom I had the privilege of being Vice-President. As has already been said by the leader of my parliamentary group, Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues honored democracy with his example and honored this House. I think we all have a debt of gratitude with him. I wish Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, Dear Friend, the greatest happiness and thank him once again for what he has done over these six years for democracy and for the Assembly of the Republic. I repeat my vows of good command to all and to all. In accordance with today's agenda, and according to Parliamentary practice, we must check the powers of all Members and all Members and, very important, the election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Let us immediately proceed to the reading and voting of draft resolution No 1 / XV / 1. a ( PS, PSD, CH, IL, PCP and BE ) — Establishment of a Possible Credentials Committee of the Elected Members. I call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read out the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Draft Resolution No 1 / XV / 1. a ( PS, PSD, CH, IL, PCP and BE ) — Establishment of a Possible Credentials Committee of the Elected Members is of the following content: « At the 29th day of March 2022, the Members elected to the XV legislature of the Assembly of the Republic shall decide to set up an eventual Credentials Committee of the Elected Members in accordance with the report contained in the general minutes of the National Elections Commission, which shall remain in operation until the committee responsible for this matter is established. The Committee shall consist of the following Members: Nine members appointed by the Socialist Party : — Carlos Pereira; — Philip Neto Brandão ; — Francisco Rocha; — Hugo Pires; — Isabel Rodrigues; — Jamila Madeira; — Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos; — Maria da Luz Rosinha; - Pedro Delgado Alves. Four members appointed by the Social Democratic Party : — André Coelho Lima ; — Catarina Rocha Ferreira; — Duarte Pacheco; - Monica Quintela. A member appointed by the Party: - Bruno Nunes. A member appointed by the Liberal Initiative Party : - Patrícia Gilvaz. A member appointed by the Portuguese Communist Party : - Alma Rivera. A member appointed by the Left Block : - Pedro Filipe Soares. It is up to this Commission to elect its Bureau and, in conjunction, to appoint a rapporteur. Its purpose is to prepare a report to be submitted to the vote and approval of the plenary, containing the declaration of verification of the powers of the elected Members and thus the relevant replacements of the elected members (derived or exercising positions that determine the suspension of their mandate, or the requirement of their own) by the non-elected candidates of their respective parties who follow in the order of precedence, in their circles and lists. The other facts having an impact on the verification of their powers should also appear in the report. The report concludes with a formal opinion, to be put to the vote and approval of the plenary. Do not keep on seeking. ” This draft resolution should be voted on, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this draft resolution. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us interrupt our work so that the Commission can meet in Room 7 and prepare the report. We'll go back to work at 3 p.m. [[It was 10 hours and 23 minutes.]] Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We're going to restart our work. [[It was 15 hours and 1 minute.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries and ask Mr Pedro Delgado Alves to proceed with the reading of the report and the opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, then, to read the report and the opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Members elected, which is of the following content: « 1 — At the 29th day of March 2022, for 10 hours and 30 minutes, in Conference Room 7 of the Palace of Saint Benedict, the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members met in Conference Room 7 to carry out the verification of the powers of elected Members on 30 January 2022 for the Assembly of the Republic — XV Legislation. 2 — At the beginning of the meeting, the Commission decided to elect the Bureau of the Commission, constituted by the President, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and by the Vice-Presidents, Mr Monica Quintela, of the PSD Parliamental Group, and Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Coming Parliamental Group. 3 — The rapporteur was then appointed Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group. 4 — The procedure and the other elements sent by the National Elections Commission, in particular the minutes for general clearance of the elections to the Assembly of the Republic, included there, was found to be the formal regularity of the allocation of mandates, in accordance with Official Map No 1 / 2022, of the National Elections Commission, published in Diário da República, I Serie A, No 60, of 26 March 2022. 5 — The Commission has unanimously been of the opinion that the powers of all the Members listed therein should be judged as being verified. 6 — In the light of the applicable legal provisions and requests for replacements submitted, the Credentials Committee of the Elected Members has made the relevant replacements of the Members exercising positions determining the suspension of the mandate ( Articles 4 ). o and 20. the Statute of the Deputies) by the non-elected candidates of the parties which follow them in the order of precedence in the lists of their electoral circles, except those which on this date are subject to impediment or have applied for suspension: ( a) Article 20 ( 1 ) ( a ). the Statute of Members, beginning on 29 March, is replaced by the following: Socialist Party — PS : Electoral Circle of Aveiro — Pedro Nuno de Oliveira Santos replaced by Rosa Maria Monteiro Venâncio. Electoral Circle of Bragança — João Alberto Sobrinho Teixeira replaced by Jorge Manuel Nogueiro Gomes; — Berta Ferreira Milheiro Nunes replaced by Catarina Afonso Pinto. Electoral Circle of White Castle — Ana Maria Pereira Abrunoosa Trigueiros de Aragon replaced by Paula Maria Fernandes Custodio Reis; — João Paulo Marçal Lopes Catarino replaced by Tiago Soares Monteiro. Electoral Circle of Coimbra — Marta Alexandra Fartura Braga Feared by Almeida Simões replaced by Rosa Isabel Cruz. Electoral Circle of the Faro — Jorge Manuel Nascimento Botelho replaced by Tatiana Henriques Man de Gouveia. Electoral Guard Circle — Ana Manuel Jerome Lopes Correia Mendes Godinho replaced by Cristina Maria Figueiredo Almeida de Sousa. Electoral Circle of Leiria — António Lacerda Sales replaced by Jorge Gabriel Duarte Catana Monteiro Martins; — Catarina Teresa Rola Sarmento and Castro replaced by Cláudia Cristina Avelar Santos. Electoral Circle of Lisbon — António Luís Santos da Costa replaced by João Miguel Macarico Nicolau; — Mariana Guimarães Vieira da Silva replaced by Ricardo Jorge Monteiro Lima; — José Duarte Piteira Rica Silvestre Cordeiro replaced by Vera Lúcia Raimundo Braz dos Santos; — Grace Maria da Fonseca Caetano Gonçalves replaced by Diogo Feijóo León Campos Rodrigues ; — João Saldanha de Azevedo Galamba replaced by Pedro Miguel Machado Anastácio; — Ana Sofia Pedroso Lopes Antunes replaced by Cristina Maria da Fonseca Santos Bacelar Begonha; — Mary of Fatima of Jesus Fonseca replaced by Paulo Jorge Duarte Marques; — Miguel Filipe Pardal Cabrite replaced by Alexandra Nunes Esteves Tavares de Moura. Electoral Circle of Portalegre – Ricardo Miguel Furtado Pinheiro replaced by Martina Pires Marcelino de Jesus. Electoral Circle of the Port — João Pedro Soeiro de Matos Fernandes replaced by Paulo César Araújo Correia; — João Veloso da Silva Torres replaced by Maria João de Abreu Mena Guimarães and Castro; — Eduardo Nuno Rodrigues and Pinheiro replaced by Antonio Pedro Teixeira de Castro Lopes Faria. Electoral Circle of Santarém — Alexandra Ludomila Ribeiro Fernandes Leitão replaced by Francisco Fernandes Dinis; — Mary of the Heaven of Oliveira Antunes replaced by Fernanda Maria Pereira Asseiceira. Setubal Electoral Circle — João Titterington Gomes Cravinho replaced by Barbara Andreia Gonçalves Dias; — Jorge Filipe Teixeira Seguro Sanches replaced by Gil Manuel Antunes Figueiredo Costa; — António Manuel Veiga dos Santos Mendonça Mendes replaced by Ana Isabel Correia dos Santos. Electoral Circle of Viana do Castelo — Tiago Brandão Rodrigues replaced by Annabela by Jesus Sousa Rodrigues; — Marina Sola Gonçalves replaced by Dora Maria Ramos de Abreu Brandão Machado Cruz. Viseu Electoral Circle — João Paulo de Loureiro Rebelo replaced by Maria da Graça da Mouta Silva Reis. 7 — The Commission unanimously accepted all the substitutions in accordance with the documents submitted. 8 — Having examined the facts available, the Commission was of the opinion that the powers of the so-called substitutes should also be judged as being verified and thus legitimised for the substitutions in question. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, the reading of the report is concluded.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members is under consideration and I ask the House whether there is any objection to the report that has been submitted. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, it is thus confirmed that the mandates are regular and that the 230 Members and Members are elected. We therefore reach the last point on our agenda — the high point — which is that of the election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, in accordance with Article 13. that of our Rules of Procedure. The Bureau received a single nomination from Mr Augusto Santos Silva, presented by the Socialist Party. As a rule, we shall immediately proceed to the vote in the sitting, which is at the top of the table in the centre of the Chamber. The services have already provided the distribution of ballot papers and the Members and the Members. Members will be called alphabetically and nominally. I draw attention to the fact that this call will also perform the function of recording presences and absences in this first parliamentary session of the 15th Parliament. Is there any objection to this procedure? [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, then let us proceed to the vote. I ask the Secretaries of the Bureau, starting with Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, the Secretary of Parliament, to initiate the call in alphabetical order of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who will vote. The call and the vote were taken. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the following: the list of all 230 Members delivered to the Bureau does not appear to be updated, i.e., there have been substitutions that have not been taken into account and, therefore, we are, with the help of the services and the extent to which it came from the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of the Elected Members, trying to see if there is indeed any overlap or failure. I ask all present that, if there has been anyone else, besides Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, if not called, do the favor of signaling to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u11	Madam President, I'm sorry, I wasn't called.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u12	All right, Mr. Ricardo Lima, we have already noted this failure. [[Pause.]] I ask Mr. Jorge Lima to vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Jorge Lima seems not to be present. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u13	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u14	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u15	Madam President, I just wanted to clarify that my name is Ricardo Jorge Monteiro Lima. Indeed, in the register and website of the Assembly of the Republic, this is how my name is, i.e., Jorge Lima, but I am Ricardo Jorge Monteiro Lima. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u16	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a little more patience. The Bureau regrets what happened, which is completely different. The lists got us wrong and, therefore, when the call is being made, we do not have the conditions to check whether or not the name corresponds to the person and whether or not there are duplicate names. Only at the end of the vote can we reach conclusions. So, as long as this question is not clarified, we cannot move forward. [[Pause.]] I would ask Mr Ricardo Lima to do the right thing to vote. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to move forward, the Bureau proposes that the call be made again to confirm who voted and who did not vote and what names are being exchanged. For example, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura is listed as « Nunes Moura ». Neither she nor the Bureau could ever identify who she was referring to. So, so that it all starts running with the previous normality, the gentlemen. Bureau Secretaries will proceed again to the call. We only ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who signal if they are present and voted earlier. Again, the call was made. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the vote, we shall interrupt the session for 15 minutes so that you may have the opportunity to speak. Members of the Bureau may vote. [[It was 16 hours and 21 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to resume our work, so I am grateful that they occupy their places. [[It was 16 hours and 42 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to announce the results of the vote. I ask the Secretary-General Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to the reading of the minutes of the poll which he and Mr Duarte Pacheco have taken together with Mr Duarte Pacheco. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the text is as follows: « At the twenty-nine days of March of two thousand twenty-two days, the election of the President of the Assembly of the Republic was held and the following result was found: Voters — 230 Candidate proposed — Augusto Ernesto Santos Silva Votes ‘yes’ — 156 White votes — 63 No votes — 11 In accordance with applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, the candidate proposed is declared elected to the President of the Assembly of the Republic. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. The returning Members, Duarte Pacheco — Maria da Luz Rosinha. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS (on foot), PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u18	On behalf of the Bureau, I welcome the new elected President, Mr Santos Silva, to whom I wish a good mandate and, of course, I invite you to take up the Presidency and lead the work. The elected President, Augusto Santos Silva, addressed the Bureau and was congratulated by the President-in-Office, who, after the exchange of compliments, took his place at the PS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u19	I thank Mrs Edite Estrela for the conduct of her work. It is another service that Parliament owes it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, without forgetting a very special thanks which I owe to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, who proposed my candidacy, I address myself to everyone, because I will be the President of all. Thank you for your confidence, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom you have just stated to me, electing me as President of the Assembly of the Republic, that is, choosing me for the prestigious and demanding position of first of all. I would like to pay the honour that you have granted me, by exercising an impartial, contented and glutinating Presidency, by preserving the individuality of each Member and every Member, by respecting the independence and agenda of all parliamentary groups, by defending the role and image of Parliament, and by ensuring everyone the best conditions for the full and productive exercise of their mandates, whether in plenary or in committees and working groups, whether in essential direct and permanent contact with the voters. I greet the officials of the Assembly and the elements of the security forces that serve here. They also want to ensure a fair and effective Presidency so that professional achievement continues to be the best way for organizational performance. I greet the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, whose information and mediation work is so important for knowledge and scrutiny of what we do. I also greet the regulators, councils and commissions that work with the Assembly, promising them the best collaboration. Finally, I welcome the Presidency of the Republic, the Government and the courts, with which Parliament will continue a relationship of harmony and mutual respect, in scrupulously fulfilling the constitutional precepts and the Portuguese democratic tradition, as well as greeting the autonomous regions and their assemblies and governments, local authorities and their associations, the Armed Forces and security forces and services, the social partners, all religious confessions practiced in Portugal, the educational, science and innovation institutions, the non-governmental organizations and other structures of civil society, and especially, all political parties, without which there is no pluralist democracy. Faces and Dear Colleagues, it is an honor that surely exceeds the personal merit, this, which you give me, to occupy the same chair in which, after the liberating morning, Henrique de Barros sat and to follow me figures like Almeida Santos, Mota Amaral, Jaime Gama, Assumption Esteves and Ferro Rodrigues, only to quote those who presided over this House in the last quarter of the century. I have made a particular mention of the last, not only because I am the one directly succeeding, but above all because Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, with whom I share a political journey for more than four decades, is, for me, as for so many others, a greater inspiration of civic commitment, political coherence, demand, ethics and personal integrity, a living example of Ricardo Reis's maxim : « To be great, be complete». [[P.S.'s applause.]] You have chosen me, and in my circumstances, it has a political significance that transcends me and I must concentrate on it. As far as I know, I will be the first President of Parliament with origin, professional activity and permanent residence in the city of Porto. This would deserve reference, because it is also a way of demonstrating that the whole nation and its territory is represented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u21	However, far more relevant, from a political and symbolic point of view, is the fact that today it is the inaugural day of the occupation of this chair to be made by an elected member by an emigration circle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, the parliamentary representation of the 2 million and 300,000 Portuguese citizen card holders living abroad and, when we add to these their descendants, of the more than 5 million we estimate to form our communities reaches its full, because it is also assumed by whom, in addition to honourable Member, it is President of Parliament. The personal dimension of this process is irrelevant. I am only the first blow of a wind that, I am sure, will last, but the institutional and symbolic dimension, this, is absolutely decisive. Today's act, better than anyone else, expresses the truly national representation that the Assembly constitutes, either in the diversity of ideas or in the variety of territories. It is one of the best ways to tell compatriots who live and work outside the country, on all continents and in almost all nations, that we hear them, that we think of them, that we take care of them, that Portugal is also made of them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, electing for your President a member elected by the communities, not only strengthen the national unity, but strengthen our capacity for international projection and global influence. Whatever the functions it occupied, I was always saying over the years that the explanation for Portugal's influence to go far beyond what would result from the mechanical effect of its demographic, territorial, economic or military dimension was well understood in its history, in the contemporary profile of a democratic, peaceful, cohesive and developed country and in the constancy of an external policy open to the world and defender of multilateralism and international law. But it was also because it had two fantastic resources of soft influence: communities and language. Communities, which signal our presence throughout the world and throughout the world, play a role in what we are, what we want and how others see us. And the language, the language that we share with other peoples; the most spoken language in the southern hemisphere, a language that is one of the most growing; the language that is the daily tool of over 260 million people, serving for the expression of multiple cultures; the language that, being our homeland, is the homeland of others, each people making it fatherly in their own way, so that the Portuguese language is today a factor of building different homelands and at the same time the strongest and perennial bond between these homelands. And to what does this come in a parliamentary speech? Come, and for two fundamental reasons. The first is that it is enough to look at the pluricentric nature of the language in which we express — each in its variety, the relationship of these varieties making the rise of the common language — to understand that patriotism only grows in the fight against nationalism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The patriot, because he loves his homeland, exalts the love of others by their respective homelands and realizes that only in the plurality of the country truly flourishes its own. The nationalist, however, hates the homeland of others, wants to close his contact with others, discriminates who is different and, instead of hospitality, promises ostracism.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u22	And subsidies! Subsidies too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u23	It is therefore enough to think a minute about the incredible strength of this language of so many homelands, which is the Portuguese language, to understand, in the deepest sense, that the good requirement to be patriotic is not to be nationalist, that is, not to be afraid to open borders, to integrate migrants, to receive refugees, to practice trade and cultural exchanges. [[PSP, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PSD Members applauded.]] The second reason I invoke here our Portuguese language is that, of course, it is the framework in which we draw up and express thought. The limits of language are the limits of thought—as is generally known—which also means that the resources of language are powerful resources of thought. This, by your will, your President, who considers that his most noble task is to give the floor to those who ask for it, I would like the freedom of those who are thus invested in the power of the word to be adorned with the care of the language in which the word is spoken. I am sure that other languages will only have to be said what I will mention immediately, but I speak here Portuguese and in Portuguese I speak. Our language, which, to invoke Vergílio Ferreira, Sophia or Eugénio de Andrade, has the vastness of the sea and the clarity of light, the language of Vieira, of Eça, of Drummond de Andrade, of Lispector, of Luandino, of Mia Couto, of Saramago, and of so many others, this language, is no magic to shout empty formulas. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u24	It is a language that has been made and transformed and evolved into encounters, discoveries, miscegenations; it is a poetic language that opens to the other and does not satisfy itself with the evidence, a language that investigates and imagines and in which, therefore, the phrases that throw stones instead of arguments and that blind rather than illuminate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u25	The punctuation sign that the most accurate democracy is from the question point of question; the signal that dispenses most is the point of exclamation, which, contrary to what happens to the fanatics of all luck, as Amos Oz has well shown, democracy should use with great parsimony. Let us leave the certainty to the needs and cultivate without fear our ability to question and inquire. The question shakes the prejudices, opens the way, invites us to hear the various answers, stops the step to dogmatism and intolerance. I have often heard Mário Soares say that his only weapon as a politician was the word. Nothing more sure. The word creates and expresses ideas, shares ideas. The word allows arguing, communicating, understanding, interpreting, convincing, motivating. Parliament is the House of the word, of the free word, so often uncomfortable, aggressive, harsh, of the word necessary and with the extent of the need required by the circumstance. All ideas can be brought, even those that challenge democracy, because that is the obvious advantage of democracy over dictatorship. As many words as they are or seem to be, the expression of ideas by others should be welcomed with courtesy. It is not because it prevents the other from expressing that someone is right. And the ideas themselves do not need to be called, because the quality of the arguments is not measured in decibels. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u26	The only placeless speech here is the speech of hatred, that is, the speech that denies human dignity to whoever it is, the speech that insults the other just because the other is different, the speech that discriminates whatever the reason for discrimination, the speech that incites violence and persecution. Freedom and equality have cost too much so that we can now accept returning to new barbaric times. [[PSP, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PSD Members applauded.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the 15th Parliament begins, in respect of Portugal, at a luminous moment, the one in which the democratic regime finally fulfilled more days than the longest dictatorship Europe has known in the 20th century. [[P.S., PCP and BE applause.]] In 2024, we will sign the 50th anniversary of the Revolution of Cravos and, two years later, the fiftieth anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic. Already in 2022, it passed the bicentennial of the first Portuguese Constitution. All these steps in democratic history will be duly marked in Parliament. But the times we live in Europe and in the world are particularly difficult times. Russia's war on Ukraine and its strategic, economic and social consequences are deeply questioning our conscience. They also call for the reaffirmation of our geopolitical position and the development and implementation of public policies that curate the economy, employment and social cohesion. We have high responsibilities both nationally and internationally, particularly as members of the United Nations, the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance. I welcome in particular the Armed Forces, now called to new tasks which, if necessary, will perform with the dedication and proficiency with which they have guided their intervention in peace missions and other operations abroad. The Assembly of the Republic, which is the par excellence space of the representation of the Nation in all its diversity and plurality of ideas and opinions, in addition to the matrix functions of legislative production and supervision and scrutiny of government and administration, is the real centre of political debate. All relevant topics are brought here and discussed. But the parliamentary debate requires the fulfilment of two basic rules: one rule is respect for all mandates resulting from the free expression of vote by the Portuguese, whatever their electoral representation or programmatic proposals; another rule is respect for popular will, as it materializes in the aggregate sum of individual votes and expresses itself in the relative greatness of parliamentary groups. On the one hand, the number of Members of a group is not enough reason to question the free exercise of each mandate, with the necessary means and under the regulatory conditions. On the other hand, the rights of each Member or Member should not serve as an excuse to want to impose distortion or disrespect on the majority that the people have constituted. This is the understanding I shall follow as President, confident that this is also the understanding of the House. These difficult, complex times, in which some of the basic assumptions of life in Europe were suddenly questioned and in which uncertainty seems to be the determining feature of the economic and strategic environment, are times conducive to all kinds of manipulations, prejudices and messianisms, times when populism can thrive, with its abusive simplifications, summary exclusions, the denial of pluralism and diversity, the stigmatization of the vulnerable and the guilt of the victims, the invention of enemies and the replacement of the debate by insult. Portuguese society is not immune to this virus and therefore Parliament is not. However, the best way to fight is to give it no more relevance than the one the Portuguese people wanted to attribute to it and is to oppose the violence that excludes from its obsessive points of exclamation the firm serenity of those who know how to have the support of people and the comfort of reason, a reason that questions, what problematizes, who hears, who assesses, corrects and is therefore, it is, yes, democratic reason, a critical, tolerant and enlightened reason, to which it will be later, by your choice, my honour to grant the word. Thank you very much. [[PS and L (standing), PSD, PCP and BE applause.]] Mrs. Members, speeches by the parliamentary groups follow. First of all, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u27	Mr President: Allow me, first of all, to congratulate the Bureau, in this case Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, Mr Duarte Pacheco and, with a special affection, Mrs Edite Estrela, who helped us in this first part of the session and who deserve a very warm greeting from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But allow me, Mr President, to underline in this speech, if necessary, the conviction that we have that one of us who is better prepared to face a legislation that is surely challenging while President is our Mr Augusto Santos Silva. His intervention has just mirrored and highlighted three central aspects. First, nationalism, the fight against those who do not trust democracy and freedom as a form of community living. This fight is done using democratic institutions, valuing them and making the debate, arguments, the best weapon to fight the darkness. And in his speech, Mr President, he was able to give shape to this idea that the Democrats — who believe in individual freedom and democracy, who are radically democratic, those who, at the root of their political choice, believe in democracy — know that Parliament and democratic institutions are a heritage that we cannot abandon, on which we must take care. And taking care is to fight with the arguments — the points of question, as I said — against the simplification of the exclamation points. This parliamentary group, which I represent, with 120 Members, is a parliamentary group that has its roots in combating fascism.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u28	What about corruption? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u29	All of us in this bench know why the Socialist Party was founded in Germany and not in any city or village of Portugal. It was a battle fought for decades and, so close to the fulfillment of the 50 years of April 25, 1974, we know that it is not just a time to celebrate. It is a time to evoke this struggle and to defend it every day, with the floor, in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we have a set of challenges, a set of challenges in a legislature that would already have the fight against the harmful effects of the pandemic; it would already have a great need to implement the Recovery and Resilience Plan; it would have to look back at the instruments of support for businesses and families, so that they could recover levels of income, so that they could seek, and of course, seek employment levels. We will have to continue the public combat policies — a fight that has not finished yet — to this severe impact that has had the pandemic in our lives, and this Parliament will certainly have an important word in terms of its follow-up and the initiatives that we will have to develop, as well as in terms of monitoring the government's activities, to ensure that this recovery is done and that it is a just recovery. Third, the war came. And the war came in a particularly difficult situation. The war came with all its impact, with the refugees. The war came with substantial price increases in what is the fundamental shopping stable of Portuguese families. The war came and came again a context which needs an alert Parliament and which also fights nationalism, simplification radicalisms with concrete proposals and an approach to what is the real and real life of Portuguese people. This war is another disruptive event. During the pandemic, this Parliament played a central role in maintaining the regular functioning of the institutions and in monitoring different states of emergency, which, as they are states of emergency, are states of exception. This work which, to a large extent, we owe to all the Members of the XIV legislature and, in particular, to their President, Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, is a work which, in these circumstances, in this legislature, we will have to continue. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party will be in this House as always: radically democratic, in defending the values of our democracy, freedom, to celebrate, in this legislature, the 50 years of April 25, 1974, the 50 years of the Constitution. This party will always be open to the discussion and intervention of all the democratic forces of this Parliament, from left to right democratic — open, plural, as has always been the central Socialist Party since 1974! Mr President, he has this parliamentary group to value this Parliament, this institution, which is the institution of all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u30	Mr Adam Silva, the parliamentary leader of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u31	Mr President, Mrs Secretary, Mr Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : I begin with my words invoking the tragic hour in Ukraine with a great embrace of solidarity of this parliamentary group and, I suppose, of Parliament and Portugal, before this scourge of tyrants who should not be doing what they are doing to a free people like the Ukrainian people. Mr. President, I begin by greeting the 230 Members of the 15th Parliament. We're here because the Portuguese wanted it on January 30th. We're just here to serve Portugal. We are here to find ways of success for all our fellow citizens. In each of us, with the inherent rights and duties, they meet the unacceptable demands of democracy. I would like to remind you that the privilege of being representatives of all Portuguese — everyone living in Portugal and the various million working and living in the rest of the world — is above all a duty. The duty to find quick and fair solutions to their needs and to materialise their rights. The duty to respond to the challenges of the future, particularly by modernising our economy, but above all our society in its various sectors. We need a more competitive, more secure Portugal and not to continue to delay towards its Community partners; a more just and more supportive Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the fourth time in our democracy, the Portuguese gave an absolute majority to one party. It is an exceptional situation, which must be taken advantage of and optimized with intelligence, prudence and smoothness. And it is good to remember that an absolute majority never — and never — can be absolute power.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u33	But it is surely absolute responsibility. Now there is no excuse not to make structural reforms, as imperative as they have been postponed, especially in recent years, which have been marked by tibias and occasional calculus. The PSD has the second largest parliamentary group and we assume responsibility for building modernizing responses to Portugal. Here, in the PSD, in this parliamentary bench, we will know how to meet these challenges. Finally, Mr President, the latter are the first. Mr President Augusto Santos Silva, we have known each other for many years. We nurture up to a mutual estimate that I do not refuse to display and mention right now. But, above all, I would like to leave our full readiness to, by maintaining our differences of opinion and viewpoints — the wealth of democracy — work together to ensure that your mandate is a successful mandate and that Parliament zealously fulfils its constitutional duties for the enlargement of Portugal and the success of all Portuguese people. I shall finish, Mr President: Today Parliament is finally taking up its work. Today, the hope and energy of Portuguese democracy is renewed here. We knew we could meet these challenges. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u34	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first word, Mr President, is not for you or for Parliament, it is for the Portuguese to see us out there, for the Portuguese who have allowed this Parliament to function and that this party - which today is the third largest in Parliament - has had the greatest historic rise ever since 25 April 1974. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u36	This historic rise in a Parliament which so often refused to discuss proposals, listen to the Portuguese, even when they said that these proposals were important. As far as Mr President has said, I want to say that closing the doors to the Portuguese is to make this not the House of Democracy, but the House of those who are the owners of democracy. And that'll never allow enough. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u37	The arrival became the third largest parliamentary force and wants to be the second and the first, when the time comes. But today we have a scenario that is neither first, nor second, nor third, of an absolute majority of the party that has nominated you, Mr President, and that allows, at the end of six years, to continue to govern. An absolute majority cannot be absolute power, but it has to be absolute scrutiny, and it was in this role that the opposition has failed in recent years. A poll that was not of millimetric, nor of taking-la-da- cá, was a daily scrutiny, pointing the finger to corruption, pointing the finger to the compartment, pointing the finger when the Portuguese felt cheated. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr President referred to the communities. I'd have some decoration today to talk about communities. on a day when millions of Portuguese felt disappointed at what happened in Portugal, having to repeat the votes, to move to half the voters, we talk about them here today seems to be playing with who actually left home again to vote. But no! They are as Portuguese as we are, they like this country as much and love him as we do, and we have failed. We have failed in the last legislature, we have failed in the last legislatures, and — let's be frank — we have failed in the last decades, in which we do not defend their rights. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u38	The Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr President, will be the voice of the common Portuguese in this House. It will be the voice of those who have lost their voice in 40 years because of a system that has not allowed them to be represented and will be the voice of a system that loves their homeland, yes, and is not afraid to say. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This mask that all of us, Members of the Arrival, are using, with the flag of Portugal, is the biggest symbol of those who are not afraid to say that they love their homeland. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And we, Mr President, are not afraid to say that we love this country with everything we have. And whoever's seeing us knows why we love this country. It is this positive nationalism that leads Ukrainians today to defend themselves as no one of Russian aggression.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u40	It's love for a country and its institutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u42	... and it is love for those who before us have made this country, because on 25 April, Mr. President, it is not the PS, nor the PSD, nor the BE, nor the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u43	There he is! There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u44	... it is of all those who are here and who have made this democracy, even if they want another one, which is not yours but that of others who voted out there. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This does not mean, Mr President, that you will not have the highest institutional respect and loyalty that the function for which you were elected represents. But now, the Socialist Party has no excuses. If at the beginning it was the pandemic, if it is now the war in eastern Europe and if there is always anything so that the fuels do not stop increasing, so that pensions do not stop coming down, so that the purchasing power goes down to 74% of the European Union average, so that the Portuguese feel increasingly poor and that we have here today, at the door of this Assembly of the Republic, a fireman who receives €219 pension, now this Socialist Party has no excuses. Some say: “Simplification! » Ask the man who is out there if he feels simplified by receiving 219 € per month. It is very easy for all of us to be here and say that it was very beautiful that morning and that liberating morning, it is very nice to speak on the democratic right. Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, it was 500 000 Portuguese who voted... [[Congrats from the CH.]] These Portuguese deserved the respect of the Socialist Party in this House. Yes, Mr President, because this legislation has begun very badly. He started with his party, began with the party that applied him to ignore the third greatest force in this country and to say that he would all receive the third largest political force in this country. If you call this democracy, I'm going out there and I'm coming back, because this is all less a democracy, it's socialist tyranny doing what you've always done. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u45	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u46	Don't say no, sir. That's right. Parliament has failed the Portuguese. As much as we are here today, let us give our hands and let us say that everything is very beautiful, Parliament has failed the Portuguese, has failed the communities, has failed in the fight against corruption, has failed those who wanted to have a little better life, but who pay 2, 18 € for gas oil and gasoline. We failed all those! And perhaps it was more humble, rather than being here with speeches and poems, we began by recognizing this to the Portuguese: we failed! We failed and we're here to improve your life. That would be what, at the beginning of a worthy legislature, should begin by saying. Mr President, allow me to quote you when you said we were here today and you were happy to preside over the Assembly of the Republic of a developed country. I don't know what you think is a developed country, but, you know, a country where there are cops with grants of around 100 €, a country where there are pensioners with 200 €, a country where there are firefighters who receive 200 € and who have half the burnt body, a country where politicians who are arrested receive more than those who are working, a country where everything is prescribed and some say that they have Alzheimer's and are on vacation, if this is a developed country, Mr. President, then it's not in that country where we agree we want to live.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u48	The beginning of this XV legislature will allow us to put on the agenda topics which Parliament has banned in the last legislature. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] With a great deal of regret, Mr President, from now on you will have to discuss issues that are of interest to the Portuguese people, because they are the ones who decide what we are doing here and they are the ones that we have to represent. We spent too many years representing ourselves, spent too many years looking at the party customers and looking at the groups that theoretically represented the Portuguese. Now, there is a group in this House that will fight in the morning at night, and you will not be afraid to do so, to bring the issues that this Parliament has refused to judge and debate. Mr President, you will forgive me for telling you this, but in fact this parliamentary group is not afraid to say that you love your country, that you love your nation and that you are going to fight for it until the end. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And we don't care about anything, Mr President, that you think nationalism is something negative and that it undermines Portugal's efforts. We are proud of our history and do not want to see it again, like others who are here on these benches. We are proud of what was Portugal in the centuries of its history, we are proud of the empire, we are proud of democracy and we are proud of our history, which has led culture to the four corners of the world. We don't look back and we don't say that our story was of criminals and bandits. We are a proud country of your history. We are a great and proud nation of the past that has built and of the past that is proud to have. It is this great nation, it is this proud nation that we want to bring here. Since he likes poetry, Mr. President, he could remember these verses of Fernando Pessoa: "He who saved you created you Portuguese. - The sea and we in you gave us a signal. - The Sea was fulfilled, and the Empire was broken. - Sir, Portugal must be fulfilled! » We are here to fulfill Portugal! [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u49	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by speaking to those who are the reason why we are all here in this Parliament — to the Portuguese, to all, without exception, to those who have participated in the last elections, but also to those who have chosen not to vote and to those who have been prevented from doing something totally unacceptable. I address all those who voted on the Liberal Initiative, but also those who have not done so or even those who have not yet done so. I address all those who live in Portugal and those who live in other countries where they earn their lives, either by choice or by lack of options around here. I address all those who were born here and all those who chose this country as theirs. I address everyone, regardless of age, sex, color, religion or ideology. It's for all of them, it's for all of you here. It's them, it's you, Portuguese, that we're paying bills. [[Applause from the IL.]] It is to think of the Portuguese that we are now in office, playing a fundamental role in democracy: that of critical surveillance to the government that will take possession of tomorrow. And it is an even more important mission because it is an absolute majority government. We have an ambition to contribute so that Portugal, in four years' time, is better than it is today. Portugal must not accommodate the social and economic stagnation of these last two decades. The Liberal Initiative elected eight Members on January 30. It was a clear proof of the political confidence of the voters in our programme and in our proposals. This gives us more responsibility and forces us to be even more attentive. Who guarantees the functioning of the House of Democracy, Mr President to 230 Members, officials, security forces and journalists who accompany this work, knows what is expected of us: maximum scrutiny, constructive opposition and alternative policies. [[Applause from the IL.]] Our guidance lines are known, but this is the right time to reaffirm them. We want more political freedom, being unacceptable the reform of the electoral system, and keeping the vote on a party like the PS, who likes to confuse with the state. That is also why it is urgent to return to the 15-year debates. [[Applause from the IL.]] We want more economic freedom by combating the suffocating fiscal suffocation and bureaucracy that people and businesses are targeted in this country. It is necessary to release the creative and entrepreneurial potential that we believe exists in this country. Economic stagnation cannot be fatal. How do you figure it out? For the Liberal Initiative, the priority is to start by lowering taxes. We want more social freedom, putting the freedom of choice as a cornerstone of the services available to citizens, especially in health and education, without forgetting urgent issues, such as the recovery of the learning of children and young people, the end of the use of masks, especially in the school environment,... [[Applause from the IL.]] ...and the end of the impediments to follow-up, which still occurs, of pregnant women in consultations and deliveries. Over the past two years, with the pandemic, as now with the war in Ukraine caused by the Putin autocrat, the Liberal Initiative has remained firm in the intransigent defense of peace, human rights and freedom as unquestionable value. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u51	These two global crises serve as a warning signal. Portugal needs to be economically sustainable, so it is necessary to put an end to the deplorable financial dependency situation of European tournaments and to examine the options and management of the European funds now available. Having the country growing should be a priority of all, so it is urgent to change the policies followed in the last two decades. Mr President, now that you are legitimized by your peers, we do not expect anything less from you than this: you guarantee that, in this House, the rule of law and its rules will not be ignored nor run; the certainty that liberal democracy and individual freedom are the beacons that inspire us and mobilize us; and, in an absolute majority scenario, repeated attention so that pluralism never fades and the debate of ideas is not disregarded. I conclude by reaffirming that the Liberal Initiative knows what to count on in this legislature and always: maximum scrutiny, constructive opposition and alternative positions and policies. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u52	For an intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, on the hope that, in the mandate which now begins, it will fulfil and enforce our Constitution and that it will contribute to the prestige of the Assembly of the Republic and to the defence of the democratic regime, of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of workers and the Portuguese people, conquered with the April Revolution and enshrined in our Constitution. Thousands of men, women and young people in our country have fought against the fascist dictatorship, including communists, Democrats and many anti-fascists. They were all present in the struggle for democracy, freedom and rights. It is necessary, in fact, that the rights won are defended and that they are in the future of our country and that the living conditions of the workers and the Portuguese people are raised. [[PCP applause.]] In the context of an absolute majority, the President of the Assembly of the Republic, especially in the face of the temptation of abuse that is common to the absolute majority, has a very important role to play in ensuring the proper functioning of the democratic debate. This legislation begins at a time of extreme difficulties for workers and for the Portuguese people. The reality of our country is marked by low wages, low pensions, higher cost of living. Salaries do not reach the end of the month; the accounts remain to be paid; there are major obstacles that prevent families from taking the decision on the number of children they wish to have; precariousness and work instability do not provide conditions and security for young people to be self-sustained. These are problems that require answers, which require concrete solutions to raise these living conditions. It is precisely in this context that these problems are addressed by the intervention of the CFP in the Assembly of the Republic. We are here, as we have always been, to defend the reinforcement, the increase of all wages and the recovery of pensions. In fact, today we still deliver a set of initiatives aimed at increasing the wages of all workers in the public sector and in the private sector. We are here to defend the repeal of the serious standards of labour law, to strengthen rights, to give guarantees to workers, to put an end to precariousness and instability and to ensure working hours that effectively enable the reconciliation of working life with personal life. Here we are to stop the increase in the cost of living, the speculative increase in fuel prices, the increase in essential goods, and we are talking about the food, which, in fact, requires measures that hinder the rule of economic groups in maximizing profits at the expense of the impoverishment of workers and the Portuguese people. Here we are to defend rights: the right to health, strengthening the National Health Service; the right to education; the right to social protection; the right to housing. But here we are also to defend that our country has to increase its productive capacity and reduce external dependence, which is fundamental to our development and our progress. These are aspects that we consider essential in our country. Workers, reformers, young people — the Portuguese people — can count on the CFP: with this determined intervention, with this combative intervention, not only in the denunciation of the problems, but above all in the presentation of solutions to raise their living conditions, which will ensure a future for all, which will allow the development of our country. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u54	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate each and every one of you and, in this respect, all those of us who expect a better country, of progress, of deepening rights and of the future. That is what is required of this House in this Parliament. But since the Assembly of the Republic — this Assembly of the Republic, of our country — the space of the law is also due and it is necessary to have a word when the law is brutally violated, as is happening in international law in Ukraine. Our Constitution defends, and it is our duty to guarantee that people have the right to self-determination, to defend their sovereignty and to maintain their independence. That is exactly what is being attacked in Ukraine. That is why this solidarity message, which guarantees the integrity of the Ukrainian territory, guarantees solidarity with the sovereignty of its people, is coming out of our meeting. We know — we already knew — how many times imperialisms were reasons for war. Once again, it is by the hand of imperialism that war comes to a people who lived in peace. We know and know how many times imperialism comes by hand with nationalism, and the two barbarously attack Ukraine and its people. And that is why, in our Constitution, we also have the attack on this banana nationalism and this imperialist vision that only brings war to the peoples and imposes war, because only that is their way of life. at this first legislative meeting, at this very demanding moment in national and international politics, it is also in respect of our people that we have to say that this House moves for peace and respect for the human rights of all peoples. I would like to give a word to all Members who have ceased their duties with this new Assembly, in the person of their former President, Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues. To all and to all is due a thanks of the Nation. Regardless of different opinions, regardless of differences, however often heatedly the terms discussed, it is true that everyone and everyone struggled in their conscience for what they thought best for the country. I believe that recognition is due to them. And at the moment of the country's life, when a new legislation begins, I will help myself with your speech, Mr President, to check out what is in issue for this House. I'm starting with your mandate. It is known its course, it is public, and we crossed in different ways in the Assembly. And that is why he is so relevant, because, knowing the means of the operation of the Assembly of the Republic, knowing the means of operation of various governments, he knows as well as any of us, perhaps even better, as is necessary the regular and healthy functioning of this sovereignty organ. You know, perhaps even better than we, as so many times he is threatened whenever, on the other hand, there is an absolute majority government, whenever there is that osmosis—that no one likes, but that sometimes exists—between an absolute majority in Parliament and a government that is subject to it. I hope that Mr President, as I said at the beginning of his speech, will guarantee the independence of the Assembly of the Republic and the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic in the name of what is essential: respect for each of the mandates that are here, in these 230 Members and Members. We will be here to follow this independence, with the institutional loyalty that is due and deserved, with respect for the Republic that is due and deserved. But let me say one last word. I believe that there are two ideas that are tied to a stronger idea and sum up what is expected of us: now that radio and clean day is longer than that dark night that our country has faced, that we have fortunately had - and it is something that prides us, I do not know whether to all, but to us very much — on 25 April to bring us democracy, freedom and equality, we must remember that democracy does not, in fact, exist without freedom and equality. Freedom and equality must go hand in hand, because equality without freedom is the suppression of creativity, rights, respect for the individual, and freedom without equality is the same disrespect, because it does not care for our differences, because it seeks opportunities, because it throws each and everyone into individualism. And it is in this trident — democracy, freedom and equality — who knows that he can count on the Block of the Left, because that is the compromise with the Assembly of the Republic and, above all, the commitment with the Country. Freedom, equality and democracy. This is the left that makes the difference, and we are aware that we will also have, in respect of this plurality which is the Assembly of the Republic, the space to make the difference in the next four years. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u56	This intervention concludes the interventions made on behalf of parliamentary groups. There are two parties that are represented by single-deputies and that have asked for the floor. If there is no opposition from the House, I'll-I'll give it to you. [[Pause.]] Mr. André Ventura, for what effect did you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u57	Mr President, leaving it recorded that the Arrival will not oppose this request for a word, I mean here: this same request was made two and a half years ago, when the two single Members were not from the PAN or the Free, they were from the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u59	... and no one in the Assembly of the Republic said they could speak if the others agreed, no group moved so that the only Members could speak. So this has only one word: shame! That's what happens in a House of the Republic when this happens. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And I am sorry, Mr President — I have nothing against whether Mr Inês Real or Mr Rui Tavares can use the word, but it is shameful that the House will expose itself in this way to the country, as if to say: "When it comes, there is no word, but when it is the PAN and the Free, as they do not make any move, they can speak, there is no problem. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] I am sorry, Mr President, but this is no way to conduct work. The precedent will remain open for you in this House. [[PS protests.]] But I am afraid that Mr Pedro Delgado Alves today did not stand up from his chair to say that this grossly violates the Rules of Procedure, which says that only parliamentary groups are able to use the floor at the first plenary meeting, and that we thus pass by the law, as if she did not care, because it is to give the floor to two friends of the Socialist Party. Mr President, I am sorry, but I do not think this is well and honouring democracy in Portugal for the past two years. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u60	Recorded the non-opposition of any parliamentary group, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor for a brief greeting on behalf of the People-Animal-Nature Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I address Mr President first of all, wishing him a good mandate and telling him that the institutional respect that we should all be guided by and everyone in this House will always be reciprocal. It will count on the loyalty and respect of the NAP, shown that it is the respect that His Excellency has also had with all political forces, without exception, in the field of its proportionality. Because if this is the House of Democracy and if in 2015, the only Member of the NAP did not have a voice, it is with great pleasure that we find that today, in 2022, all political forces have respect for and proportionality in what their intervention is. [[CH protests.]] I am also addressing all of you and all of you. Members, wishing for a good mandate, in respect of equality and freedom of opinion, and those who have ceased their duties and have devoted their work to democracy. at a time as complex as we live, when we come out of a health crisis, when we are going through a socio-economic crisis and, now, a humanitarian crisis from the war and invasion of Ukraine by the Putin Government, it is essential, without a doubt, that there is absolutely no respect for democracy and that Mr President is also guided by the values of April, which so well invoked in his speech. Its success as President will undoubtedly be the success of this sovereignty body, which will only be strengthened if all of us are respected. And as a party to people, animals and nature, an ecologicalist force, an environmentalist and progressive force, but also respect for all forms of life, we can only thank and wish for a good mandate for all, within democratic plurality. We will, of course, present a proposal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure so that there can be greater force, clearly, in respect of all political forces. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u62	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a brief greeting on behalf of the Free Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u63	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Mrs. Deputies, Mrs. Members, Madam Secretary, Mr Secretary : I would like to congratulate Mr President on his speech and, more than that, thank him, because his speech raises the demand for language and political content in this House, which we should welcome and cherish, because we owe it to all Portuguese and Portuguese. The Free has, in fact, an individual representation in the Assembly of the Republic, but to quote the same Fernando Persona, whose heteronym Ricardo Reis quoted, we are of the size of what we see, not of the size of any parliamentary group. What we see is a country that has more days of freedom than democracy and some, those who have zero proposals to offer the Portuguese of the present,... [[CH's laughs.]] ...they'd like us to be ashamed of what we've built in these 48 years. We are proud because, in these 48 years, for the first time in the history of almost 900 years of this country, the Portuguese, including those of middle and middle-low class, have access to mass education that they had not before. Those who use the flag, but who occasionally cheat and see it from the bird, as it has just happened before — look at it well! -,... [[PS Members' laughs.]] ... they would like us to be ashamed of democracy, but what we see is a country capable of building a new model of development, is a country able to overcome the mere ambition of convergence with the European Union's average and to be a certain ecological, social, democratic vanguard in Europe. We see a Europe that is at war, but we see a Europe that, united, is able to fight any imperialism, it comes from where it comes from. And, therefore, the first projects we have given in this Chamber are those of Program 3C—House, Comfort and Climate—which rhymes with the three Ds of our democracy... [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] ... and a draft resolution that tells us that, if there are war crimes, Portugal must pass from mere moral condemnation to collaborate with international institutions, because, if there are war crimes, there are war criminals, and they cannot be unpunished. What we see is a free country, in a united Europe, on a sustainable planet and in an entire unity, with dignity everywhere, with human rights everywhere, without being conditioned by the lottery of someone born anywhere on the Mediterranean. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-29.u64	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the speeches. I would ask the parliamentary groups to take note that we will hold a Conference of Leaders immediately below, I propose that at 6 p.m. in Conference Room D. Maria. As agenda questions will be involved, I invite the only representatives of the Party to also participate in this Leaders Conference. The date of the next plenary session will result from my decision, heard by the Conference of Leaders, and will be communicated in due course. Thank you very much and very good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 52 minutes.]]
