ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] As our creativity increases in the time of birth, we have a fairly extensive reading period, so I ask you to do so. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. I will then give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u2	Mr President, very late to all and to all. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. I refer, first, to Bill Nos 390 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 415 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 419 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 420 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 422 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 423 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 424 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 425 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 426 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 427 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 428 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 429 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 430 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 431 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 432 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 433 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 434 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 435 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 436 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 437 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 438 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 439 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 440 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 441 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 442 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 443 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 444 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 445 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 446 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 447 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 448 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 449 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 450 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 451 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 452 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission. Resolution Nos 328 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 329 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 330 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 331 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 332 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, and 333 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. Let's start our agenda. I remember that today at the end of the proceedings we will have votes. The first item on the agenda is the general assessment of the Bill No 42 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Legal Regime of Local Authorities by deepening the regime of metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities. To present this initiative, you have the floor of Ms. Minister of Territorial Cohesion, Ana Abrunhosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Government proposed to the European Commission, within the territory of the Lisbon and Tejo Valley, the following territorial units: a new NUTS (Nomenclature of the Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes) II of the West and Tejo Valley, integrating the current NUTS III of the Medium Tejo, of the Tejo and the West ; a new NUTS II and NUTS III of the Setúbal Peninsula, integrating the municipalities south of the Tejo of the current NUTS II of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon ( AML ) ; a new NUTS II and NUTS III of the Great Lisbon, integrating the municipalities north of the Tejo of the current Metropolitan Area of Lisbon ; and changes in the limits of the current NUTS III of the Medium Tejo and Beira Baixa, with the exit of the first and integration into the second half of the Serbian and Vila of King. It should be clarified that European regulations provide that the first criterion used for the definition of NUTS is the administrative units existing in the Member States. Thus, the proposal to Eurostat implies that the Portuguese law is amended with regard to the establishment of inter-municipal entities, which corresponds to the NUTS level III in statistical terms. The Intermunicipal Communities ( CIM ) and the metropolitan areas created by Law No 75 / 2013 constituted administrative units corresponding to NUTS III. What is the matter with this proposal? The Setúbal Peninsula aims to be an autonomous NUTS III, however NUTS III does not resolve in itself what the territory claims, to the extent that the classification of the regions as "less developed", "in transition" or "developed" is carried out on a scale of NUTS II, as did the Common Provisions Regulation, which is still consensual during the German Presidency. To have access to a higher participation rate, it is not enough for the Setúbal Peninsula to be constituted as NUTS III. The participation rate of NUTS III is defined by its NUTS II to which it belongs, which in particular is the territory of AML in NUTS II, which corresponds to the territory of POR ( Regional Operational Programme) Lisbon. What do we propose? Currently, AML is NUTS III and NUTS II. We therefore propose that the Setúbal Peninsula be NUTS III, in order to be NUTS II in statistical terms. Following this, we propose that Great Lisbon be CIM, in order to be NUTS III, and then be able to be, in statistical terms, NUTS II. In this way we propose to create two administrative units in the AML area, two CIMs. This means that AML is going to be divided into two CIMs, two NUTS III and two NUTS II, however, with the current competences. AML exercises most of the competences of the two CIMs, which at the same time will allow us to have statistical data for both NUTS II, so that they can have autonomous regional programmes in the next Community framework, i.e. after PT2030 ( Portugal 2030 ). Level II, in Portugal, corresponds to non-administrative regions and therefore does not depend on national legislation but only on the statistical classification which is communicated to Eurostat, provided that it respects the hierarchical structure. That is why we do not put in this proposal the constitution of NUTS II which corresponds to the CIMs of the West, of the Tejo and the Tejo Medium, because they are already CIM. What we have to safeguard is that the passage from Vila de Rei and from Sertã to Beira Baixa is done in accordance with what was our commitment to the municipalities, that in PT2030 they would continue at the CIM of the Middle Tejo. This will be guaranteed legally and therefore those municipalities will move to Beira Baixa, but with regard to the commitments already made, particularly in Portugal 2030, will continue in the Middle Tejo. Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u5	He called on all of us to be able to hear how we deserve each other. [[Pause.]] The Minister has a request for clarification and therefore Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u6	Mr President, I welcome you to the honourable Members. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Minister, finally! Finally, today, the region of Setúbal, which for so many years yearns for this injustice to be corrected, can have a response to its appeal. There is an issue that is fundamental and at the moment the region is looking forward to being clarified: when do we have something that moves from role to action? What it seems to be — and tell us if we are wrong — is that this will only materialize further forward, perhaps in 2027 or so. If so, the question is this: how does the injustice that the government has been in the past seven years be corrected so far? How do we correct this path by 2027, which continues to place the Setúbal Peninsula on a path that distances the rest of the regions and which is unfair? So, once we are right to the region—and we must congratulate the region, the autarchs, the entrepreneurs, all those who have engaged in this to happen—how do we now say 'wait until 2027'? Or is there already a way to start doing it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u7	To reply, you have the floor of Mr. Minister of Territorial Cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u8	Mr President, it is known that this amendment only has an impact, in terms of funds, in the post-2027, the territory knows - we have gathered and explained that. In the current Community framework, it is possible to make specific warnings with increased rates to the territory, and we have already done so in Portugal 2020. I also wanted to say that we wouldn't be here if we hadn't finished with Setúbal's NUTS III in 2013, an injustice that we are now correcting. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u9	Made by the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u10	For an intervention, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Joana Cordeiro now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u11	Mr President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Many rounds have been made by the government, many advances and retreats have finally been presented this bill, a diploma that transcends the creation of the Inter-municipal Community of the Setúbal Peninsula and the Inter-municipal Community of Great Lisbon. I say it transcends because the creation of these inter-municipal communities will have as a direct consequence the creation of the NUTS III of the Setúbal Peninsula. However, this NUTS III, in a territory such as the Setúbal Peninsula, is particularly relevant because it will benefit from statistical knowledge and a much better understanding of the social and economic reality of the region, and only with knowledge of reality will we be able to act on it. To add, in the same NUTS III, councils with such distinct realities only hinders the knowledge we have of the country. Having only an aggregate statistical view of the richest municipalities on the north bank of the Tejo, such as Lisbon or Oeiras, and of the poorest municipalities on the south bank of the Tejo, such as the Seixal or the Moita, only serves to hide the reality that exists at the gates of the capital of the Country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u12	But look that Vila Franca de Gira has also been harmed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u13	For this reason, this separation had already been requested by the Liberal Initiative in the past legislature through a draft resolution, which was approved, as well as others, but whose practical consequences only now begin to come out of the paper. However, we must not fail to regret the fact that this whole legislative process has been speeded up and hampered, which forces us to discuss profound changes and substantial impact on our knees. I recall that this bill only last week was scheduled for discussion and that, as soon as this plenary is done, an indexary vote will be taken in committee. For the Liberal Initiative, it is quite clear that this need for urgency would not be necessary if the Government had done its work better and had taken more account of the work of this Parliament, having planned this debate and this vote more in advance. We know that timing will certainly be Brussels, but the government cannot live only with excuses based on external factors.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u15	Finally, we are still concerned that this debate is taking place without any opinion from various entities. In any case, and regardless of all these considerations, the Liberal Initiative sees with great pleasure that the Setúbal Peninsula can finally be emancipated from the vision of Great Lisbon. This allows a much more reliable representation of those who are the needs of the region, which is what the Liberal Initiative has always defended. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u16	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the proposal under discussion, the Socialist Government amends an error coming from 2013, when, by decision of the PSD majority / CDS, NUTS III, Great Lisbon and Setúbal Peninsula, were eliminated. In fact, to tell Mr Hugo Carvalho,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u18	Nuno! That's the second mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u19	... Nuno Carvalho, who mentioned a few moments ago, and ill, that the PSD had been very committed to resolving this problem, that this does not correspond to the truth, until the only draft resolution presented in this Assembly of the Republic, which only requested the replacement of NUTS III, was the PSD. Never, but you never spoke on the issue of NUTS II, which is the one that will effectively solve the problem completely. Today, an important step is taken to ensure justice in access to Community funds by the Setubal Peninsula and consequently national equity in the distribution of these funds is built. When, in February 2021, the Socialist Members elected by the electoral circle of Setúbal — in fact, at the head, was the Minister who is present today, Ana Catarina Mendes — wrote to the European Commissioner for Cohesion and Reform, noting the specificities and differences in development within the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, came from a deep and broad debate on the subject, which involved the economic and social fabric of the region. It has been, and is, the fact that the NUTS II Metropolitan Area of Lisbon is considered the most developed region by presenting a GDP (gross domestic product) per capita of more than 100 % of the European Union's average GDP to 27. However, this GDP hides important economic imbalances within the region. In fact, the Setúbal Peninsula records a per capita GDP of just over 50 % on the European Union average, leaving it completely out of this « more developed » classification. The position given to the nine councils south of the Tejo, with a population of about 800 000 inhabitants, is therefore unrealistic, affecting them in access to European mechanisms for cohesion. The Government, reading well the existing consensus in two areas of the country, proposed to the European Commission a new NUTS II West and Tejo Valley, a new NUTS II and NUTS III from the Setúbal Peninsula and a NUTS II and NUTS III from Great Lisbon. On the move is the construction of a model so that the Setúbal Peninsula can have participation rates defined by its own indicators and not influenced — even broken down — by the indicators of Great Lisbon. To this end, the Peninsula must be NUTS II and, as such, it is indispensable for it to correspond to an administrative unit, including an intermunicipal community, then a NUTS III. That is why the proposed law, which we are accompanying, provides an answer. The new NUTS II West and Tejo Valley, as it has already been mentioned here, does not lack the same procedure, since it already has its formed intermunicipal communities, and Law No 75 / 2013 only deals with this issue and not with NUTS II. In fact, this will then be detailed by my colleague, Mr Hugo Costa. The relevant aspect of the bill relates to the fact that the Lisbon Metropolitan Area remains with the powers and powers it already has. Its constitution is not altered. This was also a requirement of the Setúbal region. It should be emphasized that the subject under discussion deserves a broad consensus, if not unanimity, in the region. This has been a demanding challenge for the Government to respond. We are at the end of the process and we hope that the European bodies will ultimately validate what is just and fair will of a community. This administrative reform that the Government is taking on a major challenge to the Setúbal Peninsula. It is urgent that alternative development policies be created in this area to improve the synergies of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. After all, what we want is to belong to Setúbal, really, and sooner than later, to the most developed group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u21	I end by telling those who have often prophesied here that we did not take the resolution of this problem forward, that here we are concluding it. Therefore, congratulations to the Government of the Socialist Party and congratulations to this Assembly of the Republic, which will certainly accompany this great victory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u22	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u23	I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, and also the Ministers and the Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. With regard to this initiative, I would like to note that, despite having some weaknesses that have been pointed out, particularly in the context of public consultation, there is no longer any legal adjustments to detail, which are relevant, in particular to the Setúbal Peninsula. This proposal implements a measure that is to establish justice, in particular the possibility of municipalities that form part of the Setúbal Peninsula to form an autonomous inter-municipal community within the framework of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, which is relevant with regard to the allocation of Community funds. Treating Setúbal as if it were equal to Lisbon is, in fact, an injustice from the point of view of regional and social asymmetries that still persist. Just look at the other margin to realize that we have neighborhoods, such as the Second Tower, among others, where there are, in fact, minimal housing conditions, to realize that there are still social measures to mitigate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u24	What does that have to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u25	And if we also look at the GDP per capita of the Setúbal Peninsula, we see that we are talking about 4. the poorest region of Portugal, which has a GDP per capita quite different from that of Lisbon, thus losing billions of euros in European funds and not allowing it to carry out a convergence and cohesion process envisaged in the agreements concluded in the European Union was a great social injustice that we had to correct. Therefore, despite those who are the weaknesses of this process, we will follow this initiative for the same reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u26	Of course, you have to follow!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u27	Mr Rui Tavares of the Free House is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u28	Mr. President, good afternoon to all and to all, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Madam Minister, very well, this is an old claim, which the Free has in your programme too long ago and we therefore follow. But we must not forget the horizon for this to call us, that is, more than European funds, more than statistical units, what we must call ourselves here is the following: what is the model of development we want for the Setubal Peninsula? And what development model do we want for the country, in which the Setúbal Peninsula finds its role? Because sometimes we think we're solving a problem, but we're not. We are creating new problems and important problems for 2027 ahead. I come, and my family, too, from the Intermunicipal Community of the Tex Lézíria. I remember what happened when Opel left Azambuja. Not only did they lose jobs; they lost knowledge, lost knowledge, and took years to recover what had been lost. When I think about the Setúbal Peninsula, I often think about what will happen on the day Autoeuropa leaves. I know what I want it not to happen: I want it not to happen the same thing that happened on my land, I want us to be prepared for the areas of economic specialization, electric car, artificial intelligence, robotics, taking advantage of the academy that exists on the Setúbal Peninsula — from the FCT ( Faculty of Science and Technology), from Monte da Caparica, to the Polytechnic Institute — so that the Setúbal Peninsula is a launching point in the modernization of the Portuguese economy. And that's what I'd like to hear from Mrs. Minister ahead.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u29	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u30	Mr President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: It seems that everyone was behind the carrot. This is not about Setúbal. If we're in favour of NUTS? We are, we are in favour of NUTS, but what is at stake here is the new Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course), which is the ongoing process of regionalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u31	Well, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u32	Basically, António Costa had already said, some time ago, that he did not want to know about the referendum for anything, despite the referendum saying that 63 % of the Portuguese population did not want regionalization. What is at issue here today is not the NUTS, which had already been promised by Minister Ana Catarina Mendes when she was a candidate in Setúbal. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Calm down, Mr. Deputy, listen, listen quietly. A year later, finally, they come to solve the problem. What's happening here is an administrative trick, right after we know that the position of the Left Block was also that we should take a step in the Constitution to do regionalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u33	Get judgment!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u34	We have a very clear position on regionalization, we are willing to sit down and talk; we are not willing to do the regionalization of the Socialist Party, which is for tachos and tachios. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But it was everyone behind the NUTS carrot. What happens is that a technical note has been drawn up by the services of this Parliament, which say that this Government proposal does not comply with formal or legal issues because it also amends the law of the local authority. What is here is a kick in the legislation, because the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) — which I know has been a subservient to the PS and has a lot of need to be headed, as a result of the news that has been coming to the public lately — or said absolutely nothing, when it is mandatory to hear the National Association of Municipalities, as it is here in the technical note, is in the law, and when it is mandatory to hear the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u36	But then you realized that you were making a mistake, and so much you realized that, even in the last few hours, after we all received, all the benches received the letter coming from the municipality of Vila de Rei, the Socialist Party made an amendment to the government bill—minutes before we came here to discuss it—because you know perfectly the nest they did. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u37	This proposal should not even be voted on here, and we will wait to see if everyone in this Chamber will enter this game of carrot and NUTS, if they all go behind the NUTS, accepting the kick that is being given in the CIS at national level. What they want to do is regionalization by decree, the ongoing process of regionalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u39	But for us, you don't go this way without explaining what you want to do with this and without the process being completely legal,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u40	...because, right now, it's not. What you are calling into question, once again, is the planning, the rearrangement of the territory. It is the fruit of your incompetence! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u41	To intervene, on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the years, the Left Block has been supportive of the demand for autoarchs, entrepreneurs and actors in the social and economic fabric of the Setúbal region for better rules on access to Community support frameworks. The reason for this claim was obvious, has to do with what has already been said, which is the membership of the Setúbal Peninsula to the territorial unit for statistical purposes, the NUTS, Lisbon, which prevented the Setúbal region — the most peripheral, the poorest, finally, with all the characteristics we have already spoken about — from having worse access to the European funds needed for economic and social development projects. Therefore, after this diagnosis, all parties quickly agreed to the solution: it was necessary for the Setúbal region to switch to NUTS III, autonomous, and NUTS II. However, we must also remember the process, where we came from and the history of this claim. The first thing to remember is that access to European funds is not the only reason for the structural delay of the Setúbal Peninsula — from the lack of collective transport, which is historic, to the difficulty of inter-cohel mobility, to the weaknesses in environmental protection, to urban disorganization, to the serious emergency and housing crisis, to the lack of primary health care, to social fragility. None of this has anything but access to Community funds. Both the PS and the PSD have made access to Community funds alpha and omega of the development of the region, but it was better also to assume responsibilities in privatization and almost dismantling strategic enterprises, such as the Arsenal do Alfeite, for many years, the EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company), for several environmental attacks, for delays in large investments, such as the Sixal hospital or the South Tejo Metro, promised in the last campaign and which has not yet passed on a promise. Returning to the NUTS issue, it was also good to recall the history of this demand for an autonomous NUTS. History begins with the PSD / CDS government, which, without the agreement of the municipalities of the region, has taken the decision, which has so far been contested, of the integration of the Setúbal Peninsula in the Lisbon region, and then, over the past few years, despite all requests for clarification and declarations of intentions of autarchs and PS members elected by the Setúbal district, the Government of Antonio Costa did not undertake to bring the claim to Brussels. I recall that in 2017, the former Minister of Planning and Infrastructure, Pedro Marques, declared that it was impossible to make this claim in the light of the Brussels rules, and was later denied by Commissioner Elisa Ferreira, when he replied that it was only for the Member States to make such a claim and that no request had been submitted by Portugal to the Commission services until 2019. Therefore, between PS and PSD, who try to claim champions of this amendment, neither one nor the other. The only champions of this amendment, when it comes to happening, are the autoarchs, entrepreneurs and institutions of the Setúbal region, who have never stopped fighting for the empowerment of NUTS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u43	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u44	I will finish, Mr. President. By the end of 2020, the Minister of Territorial Cohesion, present here, acknowledged that it was urgent to constitute NUTS III, and from then on began the process to which we arrived today. After so many advances and retreats, we finally arrived, but it is certainly not the PS that is of congratulations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u45	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I know that there is a temptation to try to make any debate on what the Socialist Party's position is in favour of the issue. But there is something here that is essential to clarify and understand. Today, we are discussing a law that is very important, but that only has effects from 2027. Therefore, this law kicks the problem of the Setúbal Peninsula to 2027 and kicks a series of other municipalities from one place to another. With regard to the Setúbal Peninsula, it is important to mention the following: several promises have already been made in the past and this injustice has been recognized several times and what has been produced so far has been zero. And what this law produces, until 2027, is zero,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u47	It's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u48	... unless there is an immediate response of what may or may not compensate the Setúbal Peninsula until there. You may come here to speak to any Member of the Socialist Party or any member of the Government on this matter and try to give us an explanation, but I remember that you governed this law much longer than any other government. The PSD was two years old with this law, you were seven!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u49	It was only two years because they were running!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u50	You like this law much more than any other party, and there is no doubt about that. The question is whether they give the necessary focus to the Setúbal Peninsula. Question : until 2027, what are you going to do with the Setúbal Peninsula? And how will they correct this injustice? That is what matters here to debate. As for other issues that have been raised here, well, it is more of the same. They don't put a smoke curtain on us again. I ask again: what will there be for the Setúbal Peninsula until 2027? That answer must be thorough. The region deserves that answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u51	For an intervention, on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We understand the discomfort of the PSD. Today we are discussing this matter because the elimination of NUTS III from the Setúbal Peninsula was a responsibility of the PSD and the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u53	And very big!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u54	...and penalized the populations and the region. We understand that you want to run away from this aspect and clean up the responsibilities of your government, but we remember. On the other hand, we must also point out that the Government and the PS continue to suffer from the damage with regard to the replacement of NUTS III of the Setubal Peninsula and the reorganization of NUTS II to allow the Setubal Peninsula to be accessed into Community funds. The government is now coming in a hurry to do what it could have done in the last seven years. And he just didn't do it for lack of political will, because there was nothing to stop him. This was also the case sent to the European institutions for the replacement of NUTS III. It was the last hour, at 25. the hour, at the last moment. Congratulations! Congratulations to the region, congratulations to the autarchs, congratulations to the entities involved in this process and who have mobilized to this day we are here to hold this debate. It is important to say that if we are doing this debate today, it is thanks to the Setúbal region and its mobilization.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u56	The Government has been obliged to be here today and to move forward with this proposal. I would also like to point out that this mobilization was dynamized by the Association of Municipalities of the Region of Setúbal, accompanied by the authorities, by the union of trade unions, by the social institutions, by the economic fabric, which were involved and which were mobilized to defend the development of the Peninsula of Setúbal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u57	A lot of work has been done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u58	And now the PS has done everything to dismantle this Association, which is very important for the development of the region, as I mentioned here, and which was at the origin of the elaboration of the Strategic Plan for the Development of the Setúbal Peninsula, with the participation and involvement of several entities. There is, yes, strategy and there is, yes, a perspective for the development of the region. There must also be support and investment in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u59	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u60	throughout all these years, it was the CFP that was present in the defence of the development of the region—at the economic, social and cultural level— that fought and intervened by the replacement of NUTS III and the need to start a debate for a reorganization of NUTS II in the Setúbal Peninsula, so that they would no longer be penalized. Furthermore, a draft resolution of the CFP — which today is a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic — was adopted, which makes a set of very important recommendations, in addition to the replacement of NUTS III, of the need to find a solution for NUTS II and of the need for compensation of the Setúbal Peninsula for the criminalization of which it has been targeted in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u62	There are large disparities between the south bank and the north bank of the Tejo River ; but, on the north bank, among the various municipalities, there are also many disparities, because the reality of Lisbon, Cascais and Oeiras is not the reality of Vila Franca de Xira,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u63	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u64	... nor Amadora, nor Odivelas, nor Loures. There are aspects that need to be taken into account and we believe that the development of the Setúbal Peninsula, taking into account its specificities, should be within the framework of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, with a view from a whole metropolitan territory, particularly in transport, infrastructure and the environment. We also defend that these metropolitan areas are local authorities, a central element for their proper allocation of means and instruments and for an integrated vision and an answer at the level of planning, management and investment policy in the territory, with organs elected by direct suffrage. Finally, Mr President, I would like to take a final look. We understand that municipalities must associate freely and not in a forced way, as is the example of the Inter-municipal Communities — in fact, they are neither considered as authorities nor have constitutional support.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u65	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u66	Nevertheless, the CFP will not oppose this proposal. If there were parties that over all these years warned about the consequences of the elimination of NUTS III was the CFP. And it was the CFP that throughout all these years has been present to actually contribute to the development of the region of Setúbal and our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u67	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation of a NUTS II that joins the current NUTS III of the Leziria do Tejo, Medium Tejo and West is an ancient design and a assumption of the electoral programme of the Socialist Party, a key point that the PS has led in the region. We don't get into speeches from anyone who wants to divide or even fight. Obviously, given that this new NUTS II already has three NUTS III constituted, no new NUTS III must be constituted, as is the case with Setúbal. This proposal thus empowers the development of the region and cohesion in the district of Santarém and in the west region. But, of course, for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the municipalities that leave the Middle CIM Tejo for the CIM Beira Baixa must be safeguarded, particularly in ongoing projects and Community funds. Returning to the central issue, and that some want to confuse, this bill will allow the new NUTS II, which joins the Santarém district with the West, and that is our responsibility. I hope the Social Democratic Party also assumes it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u69	To speak on behalf of the PSD, Mr Luís Gomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative procedure that gave rise to this bill goes absolutely above the fundamental principles of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. In a legislative process that closes a reform of the territory, it does not make sense to listen, in the field of expertise, to those who are really interested in this process. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u71	We have no opinion on this matter of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, we have no opinion on this matter of ANAFRE, we have no opinion of the Inter-municipal Communities concerned, Medium Tejo and Beira Baixa. There is not a single technical study that supports this bill! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u72	On the other hand, yesterday we received a letter from the President of the City Council of Vila de Rei to demonstrate its incredibleness with regard to how this process was conducted, and today we are faced with a proposal for a law which seeks to withdraw your municipality from a CIM to another without the Municipal Assembly or the Municipal Chamber being heard or if they have been able to decide on the case. [[PSD applause.]] That is why it is not up to the head of no one to implement a reform of the territory's organization without listening to the autarchs, without listening to those who were elected by the people, without listening to those who are really interested. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mr President, this muscular imposition is called 'clear violation of a constitutional principle', which is the autonomy of the local power. [[PSD applause.]] There is not a single deliberation of any municipal agency targeted. You like dialogue, you like inclusion, but the inclusion in this bill is zero. by the way, it is to this kind of procedure that the government wants us to get used to. We don't get used to these procedures, we don't get used to lack of dialogue, we don't get used to going over the constitutional principles of local power autonomy, and we're here to denounce it. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u73	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u74	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Once again, I am delighted to know that the Social Democratic Party was also attentive to this issue that we raised and I am delighted to know that you have been attentive to what is described in the technical note. For everyone to understand what we are talking about, the technical note is clear and says: « The Rules of Procedure also provide for Article 141. the, the duty of hearing of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias when the bills relate to local authorities, such as this one under consideration. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate, the party will contact the 13th President of the European Union. the Commission. This Commission has immediately scheduled the vote on this item in the speciality and, after that vote, it had also scheduled a meeting of Bureau and Coordinators. We are going to ask that the Bureau and Coordinators meet in advance with regard to the vote because we believe that this item does not have the conditions to be voted on in the Commission. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u75	To close the debate, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Territorial Cohesion, Ana Abrunhosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we bring you today has two clear and fundamental objectives: to adapt the reality of the West and the Tejo Valley and the Setúbal Peninsula to the administrative organization at the level of the inter-municipal entities and to achieve, with this adaptation, public policies, planning, regional development and use of European funds that arrive at the territories that most of them need. This is an important administrative reform for the territories of the West and Tejo Valley, which systematically live on the border between the Central and...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u77	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u78	... the Lisbon region, depending on a region for some issues, depending on another region for other issues. So here too we rest justice for the West and Valley of the Tagus, each of them already intermunicipal community, asking for its constitution as NUTS II, and, at the various meetings we had with the CIMs, this matter was sufficiently debated to be able to testify here and say that it is consensual. As for the Setúbal Peninsula, we can say that Setúbal is and will legitimately be once again an intermunicipal community. And it will be an inter-municipal community from the moment this House approves this proposal, from the moment that the diploma, after approval, and if approved, is promulgated. Therefore, it is not only from 2027. There is much to do on the Setúbal Peninsula without being with European funds starting from 2027. It is a matter of justice to have statistics again for the Setúbal Peninsula. We can have public policies that do not use European funds from these statistics, better planning and regional development. The management and planning of the territory cannot be done by perceptions. They have to be done with statistics, and that is what this proposal allows. Statistics allow us to evaluate and only with data is that we can plan, make public policies and use the various instruments we have to promote the territory of the Setúbal Peninsula. In conclusion, I should just like to point out that in the current Community framework in terms of State aid, it was the option of the LVT ( Lisbon Regional Coordination and Development Commission and Tejo Valley ) to place the highest rates for business support in the Setúbal Peninsula.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u79	Mrs. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u80	They are public data that can be consulted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u81	So we conclude the item on our agenda. We move on to point two, which is the general assessment of the Bill No 34 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate in matters relating to the deployment of drivers of the road transport sector by transposing Directive 2020 / 1057 and creating its sanctioning regime, and draft Law No 253 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Determines that the occupation of heavy goods and passenger vehicles is considered to be of rapid wear To submit the proposal of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Hugo Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Over the past three years, particularly difficult conditions for European distribution networks, with the global uncertainty generated by the covid-19 pandemic, firstly, and then by the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation, to strongly condition the functioning of the logistics chains. Moments like these have a paradoxical characteristic: processes and people who are invisible to almost everyone when everything flows normally jump, suddenly, to the covers of newspapers. When supermarket shelves threaten to be empty, when a purchase risk takes four weeks instead of four days, when collective mobility in the European space is conditioned, suddenly society realizes how fundamental are all those who have the function of transporting the essential goods that, at the end of the chain, have our homes as destination. Among these people, freight transport drivers have proved, at European level, essential to ensure the integrity of logistics chains. We therefore have the responsibility to defend and value these workers, ensuring dignified conditions for the exercise of their activity. The so-called « road package of the European Union », negotiated since 2017 and approved by the European Parliament in 2020, incorporates a set of measures aimed at protecting workers from the road sector and promoting sustainable mobility and fair competition. This bill aims to transpose into the national legal system Directive 2020 / 1057 of Parliament and of the Council, which is part of this European reform and which lays down specific rules for the deployment of drivers in the road transport sector. The high degree of mobility of workers in this sector requires a specific scheme to ensure the balance between the social protection of drivers and the cross-border provision of services by carriers in an environment of fair competition irrespective of their country of establishment. The fundamental criterion adopted in the Directive to distinguish the types of transport operations to which the rules on posting apply from those to which these rules do not apply is based on the degree of connection with the host Member State. Thus, as in cabotage operations, the whole transport operation takes place in a host Member State and the service is therefore strictly connected to the territory of that host Member State. Non-bilateral international transport operations are also characterized by the fact that drivers carry out international transport outside the Member State of establishment where the company carrying out the posting is located. The services provided are therefore linked to the host Member State concerned and not to the Member State of establishment. It is the workers who provide these services that are intended to protect here. The Government, through this legislative initiative, extends the protection, which is conferred by the Labour Code, to workers seconded in Portuguese territory, without prejudice to their being able to apply a more favourable regime. The administrative requirements and control measures that companies must comply with to prove compliance with the rules on posting are also laid down in order to ensure effective monitoring of these rules. To this end, it will also contribute administrative cooperation and mutual assistance between the authorities of the different Member States. Even in 2021, the XXII Constitutional Government had submitted to the legislative circuit a bill transposing this directive in order to comply with the existing deadline. However, with the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic and the premature end of the XIV legislature, it was not possible to obtain the approval of the bill. In addition, it was used to include in this diploma a sanction scheme applicable to infringements provided for in Commission Implementing Regulation 2022 / 694 of 2 May 2022. For this purpose, the categories of infringements established by the Regulation are adapted to national legislation, with reference to the fines values, the penalties already applicable to infringement of the rules on driving times, breaks and rest times and the control of the use of tachographs in road transport activity. The delay in transposing the directive led to the notification by the Portuguese State of Fundamental Opinion of the European Commission, which will probably lead to the referral of the infringement procedure to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which will start the litigation phase and may even culminate in the application of sanctions to Portugal. The Government therefore calls for this House to be able to do its work of debate and deliberation and to approve, as soon as possible, a balanced law that the road transport sector, drivers and transport companies can benefit so much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u83	Mr. Secretary of State has a request for clarification. Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, we have listened carefully to your explanation of this bill. However, first of all, it is essential to realize why a law of this importance takes so long to be transposed. There must be a reason it took so long. To the extent that, in a related way, it also treats and seeks, or should, of course, seek to safeguard workers' rights. in this case, some of them are even present here, and it was essential to have a word for them. It was essential to have a word for these workers, particularly with regard to the transposition of this directive, explaining why it takes so long to be transposed, since I am sure that no one wants to ignore the fundamental role of the task of transporting goods and goods across Europe. I don't think that's at stake. What is at stake is to recognize the importance and role of this profession and this work, explaining why it took so long in the transposition of the directive. I would say that it is an answer to be given not only to this Parliament and to these Members, but mainly to these workers. As far as the rights of these workers are concerned, it is important to mention a fundamental point. There was a petition brought to this Parliament, which was debated and which is related to the rapid wear and ambitions these workers expressed here with regard to the rapid wear applied to this profession. There is no need to address this without a government word clarifying whether or not there is a criterion for this profession, or for the generality of professions, as regards rapid wear. It is important for the Government to clarify whether it is working on a criterion that seeks to respond to the wishes not only of the professionals who are here today, but of several others who have also mentioned the issue of rapid wear. Therefore, this request for clarification of the PSD is fundamental, since it calls for clarification of workers and their rights to be safeguarded. First, why did the transposition of the directive take so long? Secondly, on the issue of rapid wear in this profession, what does the government have to say? And now you're working on a model for other professions? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u85	To reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u86	Mr President, Mr Member, as I mentioned in the presentation of the diploma, this bill was sent to this House for another year. However, what we all know happened: the previous legislation ended prematurely and, therefore, the diploma that was sent, I believe that in October 2021, it could not be transposed into the previous legislation. With regard to the question of whether this can be considered a quick-wearing profession, it is necessary to find criteria that define, from a technical and scientific point of view, whether this and other professions meet the conditions for being recognized as rapid-wearing professions, and no justification was found that would allow us to accept the proposal that was made. This from the point of view of the petition, because I believe that there is one proposal from another side. At the moment, however, there is no technical and scientific justification to allow us to accept this claim. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u87	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u88	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Arrival presents today, in this Chamber, the Bill No. 253 / XV / 1. a ( CH), which determines that the occupation of heavy goods and passenger vehicles is considered to be of rapid wear. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this recognition will never be a favor given to these workers, but rather the recognition of their daily efforts, of service in order to the common good.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u90	This effort and commitment to the common good was clearly seen in the confinements imposed on the Portuguese during the crisis of the pandemic of Covid-19. We were all at home, but heavy drivers were always on the front line. They went out to the roads from north to south, taking risks, so that nothing was missing in the houses of the Portuguese families. The Portuguese do not forget and will always be grateful to all the workers who have put their lives at risk and who, as I said, have always been on the front line. Heavy-duty drivers have long claimed recognition of their profession as rapid wear. Unfortunately, political power has always turned its back on these men and women. But he didn't turn his back on them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u92	The state's recognition of this claim by drivers is the most fundamental justice for the arrival. Most, who in this House defends the Dignified Work Agenda, cannot bring down this bill of arrival. If you do, sirs. Members, they reveal that dignity does not exist in the dignified work agenda and that it does not go wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u94	Rejection of Bill No. 253 / XV / 1. it would reveal that heavy drivers are excluded from the Dignified Work Agenda and that this discriminates workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the working conditions of heavy-duty drivers are outraged. A freight driver has an average hour charge of 12 hours, which sometimes reaches 15 hours. Adding to the hours of work, he is joined by the physical effort of the loads and discharges, aggravated by the prolonged expectations in the collections and deliveries.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u96	And let us not forget loneliness in international travel, family separation, time-disregulation and nighttime. While we sleep in our beds, in the comfort of our homes, these men and women stay overnight in unknown places, with poor conditions of hygiene and rest. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Whenever they are on the wheel, these drivers must always have the utmost attention, because a small neglect puts many lives at risk. Heavy passenger transport drivers are also subject to additional effort, taking into account the number of driving hours, and they have also been added to other tasks, such as selling tickets or ensuring order within the cars. They are therefore subject to attacks on their psychological and physical integrity. Motorists are subject to constant physical and psychological effort, resulting from the great responsibility inherent to their profession, in particular in matters of the safety of themselves and others, with which they cross the roads of Portugal and Europe. Drivers are faced with working times and conditions that imply a great physical and psychological wear that has to be recognized. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of all this, should drivers not have the right to be deemed to be worn out quickly? Do they not deserve the right to retire at the age of 60 without any kind of penalty? Professional drivers cannot continue to be abandoned. He'll always be by your side. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u97	After the presentation of the proposal and the bill, we are moving to the stage of discussion. Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructure asked for the floor to speak and he had 11 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u98	Mr President, I would like to correct an information I gave recently in response to the PSD Parliamentary Bank : the project has not been sent to the Assembly, it has been in a legislative circuit within the Government. Eventually, if the legislature had not ceased prematurely, it would have been approved a few months ago, but, in fact, it was not sent to this House. I wanted to correct what I said a little ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u99	Thank you for the correction. You now have the floor on behalf of the PSD, Mr Nuno Carvalho, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his clarification. We are, in fact, clear on this matter. It has been a long time, too long, because it is true that there has been a interruption of work in Parliament, but the accounts have been made three years ; three years are not only imputed to Parliament, of course, but this has already been clarified by the Secretary of State. But there is another issue that is important for the government to clarify and should not have come to this debate without that information and without giving that clarification. The first information is, if possible, about the'said' study of the rapid wear professions, which was with which the PSD Parliamentary Group expected the Government to respond, when we mention the issue of the rapid wear professions. There was supposed to be a study, announced by the government itself, which would be going through to deal with this problem, but it was not mentioned by Mr. Secretary of State, probably because no study has been done and because nothing is going on on on the part of the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u101	That, therefore, is a clear sign that it is necessary to put the government to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u103	in this same sense, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a draft resolution, precisely so that this situation, with regard to the different professions, is resolved cross-sectionally and so that there can be a criterion that, in fact, responds to the wishes of the different professionals who claim rapid wear in their professions. Mr Secretary of State, in this area, it is also essential to have a word for the professionals present here. It is essential to have that word, especially when the government announces that it will deal with the issue of rapid wear. There is a petition in Parliament on this matter and we have a government that has delayed the directive, harming the rights of workers, which speaks of a study which, from the outset, does not exist and for which nothing has been done, and the presence of these professionals is undisputed. The PSD once again urges that, at least with regard to what is claimed in this petition, there may be a clear answer. So, by now, try to know what state is that there is the study that you did not know exists, but that apparently was announced and in which so far nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u105	And give a word to the health professionals who are here, because this House has the responsibility to clarify not only the Members, but also the Portuguese, especially those who have made a petition, came to this Parliament and want answers. The response and the demand for reply are on the Government's side and the PSD Parliamentary Group requires that this answer be given with clarity and rigour. It is not talking on a subject without even being informed that there were promises about a "said whose" rapid wear study. Mr. Secretary of State, where are we? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u106	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr José Carlos Barbosa now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I congratulate everyone, as well as the representatives of the workers in the sector. This proposal from the Government is from the outset intended to legislate in respect of the secondment of drivers in the road transport sector, transposing a European directive to the national legal order, and thus to create the respective sanctions regime. The relevance of the transposition lies not only in the fact that the proposed deployment of drivers is central to the objectives set out by the European Commission, as regards the mobility package approved in 2020, but above all because, given the deadline set for transposition, it aims to ensure that the Portuguese State is not sanctioned at that headquarters. Given the characteristics of this profession, it is necessary to lay down specific rules to ensure the balance between the various interests present, which must be harmoniously combined, i.e. with a balance between the free provision of services in the territory of the Union, the free movement of goods, the establishment of appropriate working conditions and also the social protection of drivers. This proposal therefore lays down specific rules for the deployment of drivers in the road transport sector which amend the existing directive as regards the requirements of the implementation and Regulation. Similarly, and in accordance with the implementing Regulation, the Government intends to set up a sanctioning regime with regard to new serious infringements of the rules of the European Union and which may result in the loss of suitability of the intended road carrier. By integrating the road package, the directive in question includes a set of measures aimed at: promoting fair competition between enterprises; improving road safety, as well as working conditions and social protection for workers; communication of deployment communications by other Member States through the Internal Market Information System; administrative cooperation between various supervisory entities of the Member State through the Information System; dematerialization and simplification, with regard to the request for documents, with the taxable listing of the elements that may be requested by undertakings; the possibility of supervisory entities to request information directly from the undertakings of other Member States without passing through the congenerating entity of another Member State; the promotion of the conditions of equitable remuneration of the work provided by drivers within the same Member State in which they carry out the activity, irrespective of the Member State in which the undertaking is established or based. The internal market of the European Union, enshrined in the Treaty governing its operation, is based on other principles: the free movement of persons and goods and, in particular, the freedom of movement of workers, the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services. However, in this law, the Government mentions that the freedom to provide services includes, inter alia, the right of undertakings to provide services in other Member States and may temporarily highlight their workers in order to provide services to them. However, this proposal recalls that it is necessary to distinguish the freedom to provide services for the free movement of workers, which gives all citizens the right to move to a Member State to work there and reside for that purpose. Therefore, the Government believes that workers can and should be protected against discrimination in the area of employment, remuneration and other working conditions vis-à-vis the nationals of those Member States. It is of particular importance to note that under the European initiative which the Government is addressing is the concern to reduce discrepancies for Member States in the interpretation of the application and implementation of Community provisions in the field of road transport. These discrepancies have caused legal uncertainty in the sector and created high administrative burdens for workers and carriers. The legal regime relating to the detachment of drivers is part of the set of diplomas covered by the road package, being generally considered to be prominent drivers when performing cabotage or cross-trade operations. It is thus established the procedure for the deployment of drivers in the road transport sector, with the terms of monitoring and monitoring of compliance with that scheme and the competent authorities for that purpose; the Internal Market Information System is established as a means of cooperation and mutual assistance between the authorities and the different Member States; it establishes the sanctions regime applicable to infringement of the rules laid down for the deployment of drivers in the road transport sector. Finally, Portugal is a geographically peripheral country, we know that a high percentage of national exports are made using road transport. This Government proposal is thus of great importance. It is of the most fundamental justice to watch for the working conditions of the Portuguese who spend two to three weeks outside the country and guarantee a large part of the fundamental logistics to the national economy. It will always be the main objective of this government to monitor the conditions of our workers, in this particular case of our truck drivers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u108	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has been alerting successively to the growing number of professions that claim recognition of rapid wear and also to the conditions under which it works in Portugal. The pace of work has accelerated, the working hours are increasingly long and uneven, deregulated and deregulated, the working conditions are degraded and the penosity of certain professions is not taken into account; professions, moreover, are essential, such as heavy-duty motorists, particularly during the pandemic, but also in our day-to-day. As we have already proposed, and as it is currently under discussion in the specialty, in the working group on the Dignified Work Agenda, this implies a legal and labour regime that extends the protection of shift workers, night workers; it implies the reduction of normal working periods—we discussed this yesterday and was plunged by the Socialist Party and the PSD ; it implies changing the rules on reform because we continue to have the sustainability factor for those who are reformed in advance, which the PS and PSD have rejected. Through a petition, which, in fact, I welcome — I believe that the petitioners are attending the debate — a group of drivers requested recognition of the rapid wear of their profession and, to this end, presented a number of arguments based on the daily difficulties they face. Firstly, pressure and stress, as market economies are getting faster, with shorter delivery times, with error margins calculated per minute. Secondly, by the work of shifts itself, by night work, by work on scales, by variable schedules, by extension and extension of working times in which they exercise their activity, with long stays in vehicles, subject to vibrations, subject to weather and with the physical and emotional wear that this situation obviously takes. Thirdly, because of repetitive, manual and non-automatic tasks, as happens, for example, with the manual insertion of data in tachographs without margin of error—with large associated fines if there is any margin of error—and also, on account of the workload, which has an impact on workers' health, whether in musculoskeletal diseases, whether in kidney problems or hearing, vision, anxiety, depression, daytime sleepiness, among others. For this reason, these workers, who go to Parliament and we have already received, argue, fourthly, that there is a need to recognise the lack of hygiene conditions in meeting basic needs. In most cases, we know that drivers have to use public bathrooms precisely for that. Fifthly, they draw attention to the safety conditions in the overnight or rest periods—and we also know of the reports that there are, that the number of assaults has been increasing. Sixthly, the huge injustice that is largely, if not most, of accidents with drivers are later qualified as road accidents and not as accidents at work, which has profound impacts on the recognition and repair of the consequences of these accidents. The Left Block believes that it is necessary to ensure that workers develop their activities in health and safety conditions at work and that there is a working regulation of this activity that is protective of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u110	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u111	I will finish, Mr. President. Today, too, we are talking about the rules on the posting of assistance between the authorities of the different States, the strengthening of supervision, the effectiveness of sanctions regimes, the fight against discrimination against posted workers, and we believe that all this is important. We understand that all these rules must be improved and that, in addition, the situation of high demand and professional wear should be recognised through the recognition of the speedy wear regime. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u112	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a peripheral country which has neglected international rail connections for several years, road transport plays a particularly important role. Heavy goods vehicles drivers have an essential role in the operation of the country, even though it is often invisible. In fact, it only becomes visible when drivers decide to stop working, as happened in the past, and there, yes, we feel how important heavy-vehicle drivers are for the country's operation. As with other professions, many of these drivers have emigrated to more liberal, more developed countries in order to gain more because they know that conditions in Portugal are not as good as in other countries. Directive ( EU ) 2020 / 1057 can be a positive step towards improving the functioning of the European Union road transport market, ensuring more competition in the sector. The promotion of fair competition and the protection of workers' rights seems to us to be important objectives, and the intention of the directive seems to go in this direction. However, as is the case with many European Union directives, we are concerned that some small and medium-sized enterprises feel some impact on the costs associated with meeting the requirements, and these may be too costly for some SMEs ( small and medium-sized enterprises ). Therefore, it will be quite important to monitor carefully the implementation and impact of this directive, so that, by reaching the desired objectives, it will not have unwanted consequences for stakeholders. In the past, we have seen that the passage of some of these directives has resulted in the creation of a set of counter-ordinations and excessive fines for professionals in other sectors, so it is necessary to monitor very clearly the implementation of this directive in the lives of companies and heavy vehicles drivers. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u114	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The road transport of goods and passengers, particularly in the long course and in international transport, is, by its own nature and characteristics, a sector of activity conducive to the presence and cross-border movement of workers. Often, in this framework of worker mobility, work is done in another Member State than in the country of origin. There are different situations: international bilateral transport; so-called « triangular transport »; so-called cross trade; cabotage operations; etc. When the Government intends to legislate, with the authorization of the Assembly of the Republic, and to transpose Community legislation into national law on this matter, it is therefore necessary to ensure that the measures necessary to prevent social dumping and unfair competition are taken. It should be borne in mind that throughout this process and this debate in the context of the European Union, there have been no attempts to open up the way to more exploitation, to more injustice, and to make this framework even more serious in the sector. Even so, there are issues that deserve our reservations and that require some clarification. We deserve the political option of fixing a whole set of exceptions and limitations which objectively undermine the drivers in question. In our understanding, the detachment begins on the first day of work and from the moment the worker leaves the country where the company for which he works is based. However, this is not the result of this regulatory framework. On the other hand, there is an issue which has been raised about this diploma and which should not in fact continue in the definition in which it is currently found, as is written in the Government's proposal. We refer to Article 4. that of the decree-law, or, rather, of the preliminary draft decree-law, which is annexed to the proposed law under discussion. This Article 4. it refers it to the Labour Code, in particular to the standard on the working conditions of the seconded worker. The problem is that the practical consequences of this referral are to be clarified, and we are talking from the outset about the specific issue of wages and the remuneration regime of drivers, calculation formulas, pay items in force in collective bargaining, holiday allowance and Christmas allowance. It is dangerous to leave an issue of this importance open, Mr Secretary of State, and it is essential that this clarification be made by the Government in the drafting of the decree before it is adopted — until the CFP has been warning about the exploitation and precariousness faced by drivers in this sector on a day-to-day basis in Portugal. So many and so many times are considered almost as if they were the cheapest piece of the truck! It must be said that only those who do not know the sector could claim that Portuguese drivers will work abroad in search of a better life, for countries that are more liberal in these sectors. in these countries, the sector is no more liberalized than here, it is much more regulated. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the detachment of drivers is a serious matter and the legislation that determines this matter too. We therefore find it strange that there are parties that do not have a word to say on this subject, in this debate, and that prefer to anticipate a debate, which must be scheduled, with a petition on early wear.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u116	Who? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u117	at this moment, we will be here to do this discussion, but now the detachment of drivers and the legislation we are discussing is, of course, a serious matter that should not be ignored, as is being done by some. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u118	Ah! For some!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u119	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only one note, for regretting hearing a member of the Government, as well as the management and PSD benches, are now being defended by drivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u121	Huh? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u122	It is time to put an end to the bla-bla-bla-bla and recognize the right claims of the drivers. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u123	You know what he's talking about! Do you ever know anything about what you're saying? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u124	To close the debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Hugo Mendes. [[Pause.]] Mr Rui Tavares would like to sign up?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u125	I was already registered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u126	Were you already registered? Even better. He was registered, but his registration was not visible. He has now become visible, so he has the word. V. Exa has 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u127	Mr President, recently there had been a communication with the Bureau on this matter, to pre-subscribe myself to this debate. The drivers are part of the arterial circulation of the continent and I was a bit surprised to hear the Secretary of State say that there was no scientific basis to consider that it was a rapidly worn-out profession. I can present to you the research of a colleague of yours, a social scientist who a few years ago studied various professions and vocations with a transnational way of life — academics, artists, officials of Community institutions and long-distance transport drivers — and who told me that I had reached two conclusions: one is that politicians, intellectuals and academics think they know Europe, but who knows Europe are the drivers of these transports; the second is that it is a very long-term profession and that obviously has to have a framework. That is why this is no longer the first Community directive which seeks to monitor the need for integrated rights for these professionals. Only one directive — and it is unfortunate that we are discussing it late and late — is only a minimum threshold and it would be desirable for the government to establish the maximum threshold for protection in terms of our national law, both in the case of outstanding workers and others. If we are no longer going to do it in time, then there is the challenge for us to do it through the Labour Code, which has additional functions on this directive. The challenge remains!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u128	Now, to close the debate, Mr. Secretary of State, Hugo Mendes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before answering some questions that have been raised by some Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to remember two or three things. First of all, that this driver deployment project is central to the objectives set by the European Union, with regard to the mobility package approved in 2020, and we are fulfilling our share of this European reform. Secondly, I would like to remind you that these workers, the drivers of the road sector, have so far not had a system of detachment that would apply to them from the sectoral point of view and that it would meet the specificities of their profession, which, as we all know, is marked by high mobility, which also characterizes the transport sector. Finally, I leave one last note, which also answers the question raised, at least in part, by Mr Guimarães Pinto: there is an effort to dematerialize and consequently simplify the administrative arrangements provided for by this scheme, seeking to remove some of the burden which often affects small and medium-sized enterprises and disrupt their functioning. This is a concern of this directive and of this transposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u130	But what he wants is not that, what he wants are other questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u131	On the issues raised by Mr Bruno Dias, two notes: first of all, this legislative work by the Government will be densified on the issue of protection of workers—that is, there are issues that are still open and need to be densified; and, secondly, there are limitations that the directive imposes and that are not on the margin of manoeuvre that the Government has to change. Finally, there is no discretionary space on the part of the Government to make major changes, but in the context of which it can be strengthened from the point of view of labour protection, the Government will, of course, be attentive. I would also like to return to the question that arises about this debate, from the outset, about the professionals and the possible classification of this profession as a rapid weariness. As you know, this is not a matter that is protected by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing, it is a subject that is under the reach of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u132	It's from the government, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u133	The information I have is that the government is not currently developing a specific study on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u134	He's not doing anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u135	However, he is attentive to this professional reality, like many others. Recently, I stressed the need for technical-scientific criteria for the allocation and qualification of a given profession as meriting the qualification of rapid wear and then there is a second very important dimension, which is the dimension of equity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u136	Mr. Secretary of State has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u137	I conclude by saying that it is in view of this dual dimension, technical-scientific and equity, that these issues need to be examined, and I am sure that the Government, through the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, is attentive to this discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u138	Watch out, watch out! They're not doing anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u139	We thus conclude the second item on the agenda. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 216 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Ensures access to the state's institutional advertising campaigns to public communication bodies directed to Portuguese communities abroad, making the second amendment to Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August, 250 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — The third amendment is made to Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August in order to include in its scope the institutional advertising of independent administrative entities, and 394 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Extends the scope of Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August to include Portuguese communities abroad, together with Draft Resolution No 317 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the provisions of the law and publish promptly the order setting out the amounts of support to be allocated under the regional and local social communication incentive scheme. To present the Socialist Party bill, Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor. I am asking for as little noise as possible, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese communities are an integral part of our collective life, through ties with Portugal and its influence at planetary level, through their activities in host societies. It is therefore important to know their particularities and differences well and to consider them always in our political action, as is the case. Today's discussion on the adaptation of Law No 95 / 2015, to allow the media from the diaspora to institutional advertising whenever the campaigns concern Portuguese communities, constitutes an act of recognition of the greatest importance for the irreplaceable role they play and finally for so many years after ending discrimination. The amendments to the law provide for mandatory advertising with minimum amounts for advertising campaigns where they are concerned with matters of interest to the Portuguese communities, regardless of their headquarters abroad or Portugal, with sanctions rules for cases where these requirements are not met. The Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ( ERC ), which already has competence in this area, is called to play a central role in the registration of diaspora social media bodies and in monitoring the effective implementation of advertising campaigns. The fact that there is a centralized register will often end the situation of the State wanting to carry out campaigns aimed at the communities, but then not know what media means to use for its message to produce the desired effect. Another relevant aspect that should be clarified is related to the absolute need not to exclude from institutional advertising the organs that are distributed free of charge, for the simple reason that the overwhelming majority are of free access or distribution. If we didn't, the law would lose all effectiveness. This is an unmistakable reality, due to the lack of human and material resources and the dispersion of our communities, which makes it difficult to access publications and emissions. This is therefore a historic moment of great significance for the communities, because we begin to consider the diaspora communication bodies on an equal footing with the media of the local and regional press, understanding its specificity. We must therefore adapt our structures well, so that the objectives present in this amendment to the law can be achieved, using, where appropriate, the collaboration of the platform of social media bodies already existing in the communities and which gathers about 150 Portuguese-language media worldwide. The diaspora media agencies play an irreplaceable role in disseminating the life of our communities and linking Portugal and its regions. They are the permanent voice in the promotion of Portuguese language and culture and a factor of affirmation, cohesion and dynamization of our communities. They can train knowledge, create opportunities, raise awareness of civic and political participation. Without them, communities would be more exposed to the misinformation of social networks and make their members invisible. It would not be known who they are, where they are, what they do or what needs and expectations they have in relation to Portugal and the host countries. It is through it that we get to know the activity of associations, consular information, companies and entrepreneurs, success stories and those who need help, artists, scientists and Portuguese or Luso-descendant sportsmen who are an important asset in the promotion of Portugal, in economic development and in the approximation between countries. However, despite its extraordinary importance, its life is made of struggles and difficulties and, often, the survival of the diaspora's media depends on the gigantic effort that its directors make and responsible, forcing them, in most cases, to be all at the same time: journalists, photographers, advertising organizers, informatics and distributors; to travel thousands of kilometers to honour their mission. I do not know any responsible for the social communication of the communities that has enriched their activity. I know many, yes, who have succumbed to the difficulties, leaving our communities orphaned. Because of its proximity and audience, there are so many publicity campaigns that the State can do, much more effectively, for the benefit of our communities and the country, such as the dissemination of programmes and other public policy measures, the promotion of Portuguese regions or electoral campaigns, among many other useful information. That is, journalism in the diaspora is often a work of charity and devotion to the community, but which rarely has due recognition. Therefore, these real heroes, who play an irreplaceable role, deserve all recognition, consideration and support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we are doing here today is finally recognizing the fundamental importance of these media bodies, contributing to their robustness and to the strengthening of their relevance to the service of Portuguese communities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u141	To submit Bill No. 250 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Social communication is one of the guarantors of the rule of democratic law and is also a guarantor of the approximation of the real concerns of the people, in particular in the case we debate, of our diaspora. But, along with the initiative brought to us by the Socialist Party, the law of institutional publicity of the State must ensure the balance of the distribution of institutional advertising among the various media. This publicity is of the greatest importance for the sustainability of the press itself and local and regional radios, along with that which is accompanying the diaspora, and should therefore be the subject of greater attention. The proposal that the NAP brings the debate aims to do this, aims to look at a gap that stems from the law and has already been presented by the Portuguese Broadcasting Association. Essentially, outside the scope of this law are independent administrative entities, including regulatory entities, which are entities within the public sector with an important public awareness-raising mission and which, often due to the requirement of the law, have the responsibility to carry out institutional advertising campaigns. While some of these entities, such as the National Elections Commission, voluntarily apply the criteria of the law, it is not acceptable for this omission to continue until today. Therefore, the NAP proposes in this debate that independent administrative entities, including regulatory entities, be included within the scope of the institutional advertising law. The ERC has already voted in favour of this amendment, warning, however, of the need to clarify that the proposed regime will not apply to the ERC or, then, that the current competences given to the ERC are attributed to the Court of Auditors. This is a complex theme, which must be studied and analyzed in hearings in the specialty, to understand which best way this House can find to solve this doubt raised by the ERC, and the position of the Court of Auditors should also be taken into account. The NAP's availability to work on these subjects in the specialty is total. What we hope is that we can strengthen not only institutional advertising, but also the proximity and relevance that all means, without exception, have towards all our citizens, whether they are in national territory or in our diaspora, as well as to respond to a fair demand from the Portuguese Broadcasting Association.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u143	To submit Bill No. 394 / XV / 1. Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival proposes the extension of the scope of the law that regulates the institutional publicity of the State, a fundamental law for Portuguese communities abroad. More than 2 million Portuguese are concerned, referred to in the official UN issues ( United Nations ). The current law limits the promoters of institutional advertising to the direct administration services of the State, to public institutions and to entities that are part of the business public sector. The law also allows only national media bodies. He proposed two amendments to the law. The first is to add Portuguese communities abroad, when recognised by the Portuguese State. These communities exist precisely to add and communicate with Portuguese in their host countries. Second amendment: to include within the law the social communication of host countries, provided that their services are intended for the Portuguese communities and value the political, cultural, economic, social or national environmental life. Calling for the participation of Portuguese communities in elections is only an elucidative case. It is as important or more important to strengthen the permanent link between Portuguese communities living abroad and the national territory, but this should be at the same time as encouraging the good integration of national communities into foreign host societies. To arrive, the matter is sensitive, due to the risks of erosion of Portuguese national identity, which are quite symptomatic in the abusive generalization of the term'migrant'. This is another brainwashing against the national, regional or local identities of Western peoples. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Those who open up the difference between immigrants, with « e», i.e. Portuguese minorities living abroad, and immigrants, with « i », minorities from other countries who come to Portugal, cannot defend or value Portuguese, their identity, culture, history or language, but want to dilute them into an anonymous globalist mass. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is good to remember Galileo, who was one of the parents of modern science and lived between the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries — science is to confront the alienation of the « said he said» with factual evidence resulting from empirical evidence. Galileo observed the astronomical system and found that the sun is much larger than the Earth. Thus, the system could not be geocentric, centered on Earth, but heliocentric, centered on the Sun. It was the Earth that moved around the Sun, the wisdom of the Middle Ages was objectively wrong. Galileo has left us the rule of operation of any living or dynamic system: the system is only functional when small ones turn around the big, otherwise the system implodes. It's an astronomical system, it's a natural system, it's an environmental system, it's also a social system. In the 20th and 21st centuries, the progressive-globalists discovered that it should be the majority walking around minorities. Galileo must walk around in the grave with such gross mental return to the Middle Ages! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u145	Oh, he must, he must!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u146	To resume Galileo is to use the institutional publicity of the State to keep present among Portuguese minorities living abroad who must comply with the laws and rules of the original State and of the host State and who must work and respect the welcoming society, its habits, symbols, traditions and ways of life. But it is also necessary for the Portuguese State to take responsibility and communicate regularly with migrants. A different speech for foreign communities living in Portugal is offensive to Portuguese people who live, work and suffer from problems abroad, sometimes too serious. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I am referring, for example, to the lack of security or the illegitimate abuse of welcoming States, such as extortion from corruption. This kind of xenophobia is very much alive in Angola and Mozambique, but it is always silenced in the news. Still, the Portuguese submit, without question, to Kant's categorical imperative and comply with rules that should be universally valid for all communities living abroad, including in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u147	To present draft resolution No 317 / XV / 1. a, from the PSD, has the floor Mr João Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a number of initiatives related to social communication, a sector that faces a crisis that drags year after year and questions the sustainability of the majority of the sector. A social communication without sustainability can never be a truly free social communication. To challenge this sustainability is to challenge the existence of independent social communication, which is truly fundamental to democracy not only because of the election function of political powers or public and private entities, but also because it can provide information of quality and confidence to citizens. The above initiatives, although they are of some importance, do not go to the heart of the matter, are incidental and palliative measures. What really is the fundamental point? There is legislation in our legal system that, if it were met, would make it easier for the social media bodies, particularly the local and regional authorities, whose fragility is more evident. Our appeal is clear: the Government fulfils the law, enforces its obligation and promptly publishes the order of the support amounts of the State Incentives Regime for Social, Regional and Local Communication. It is provided for in the law, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Are we making laws and the government isn't doing them? Oh, my God! We need them to be met, we need to have a government to meet. [[PSD applause.]] The year is about to end and the total value of these support is not yet known, nor the allocation to the CCDRs (regional coordination and development committees) and regional governments. In April we had the nominations to the State Incentives Regime for Social, Regional and Local Communication, but the portal has not yet been published with the allocation of State support. Mrs. Members, the most serious thing is that it is not possible to decide which projects supported this year, without the publication of the office indicating the funds for the CCDRs. This failure to comply is detrimental to the regular functioning of the social media bodies covered, of course, by the support. They wait several months to know whether or not they are supported, generating uncertainty and increased costs and affecting budget planning. If the government complies with the law and publishes the order in a timely manner, this will have a very positive impact on the sector, much more eventually than the initiatives presented by the other parties. The PS and the Arrival present similar bills,... [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u149	They're the same, they're the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u150	...to give the social communication bodies of the Portuguese communities the same opportunities and visibility as the national, local and regional authorities in the state's institutional advertising campaigns.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u151	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u152	These are weak proposals, Mr... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u153	Weak is PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u154	... but they are proposals that should be reviewed and better worked. We also walk in that direction. We believe that the initiatives of these two parties are beyond expectations, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be in depth. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] There are several open issues that need to be clarified. More and better work, sir! [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] The NAP initiative aims to ensure that the institutional advertising of independent administrative entities, including regulatory entities, falls within the scope of the law. Neither do we oppose, although the ERC, as an independent administrative entity, if it is covered, can open a conflict of interest. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to question the merits of these and other initiatives that can help a sector that goes through difficult times.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u155	Weak, weak!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u156	It is this sector that we have an obligation to protect. The sustainability of the media is the basis of a free and independent society, a plural society and with an active voice. That's the way the Democratic Social Party wants to go. We ask the Government to fulfil its mission, its duty, because, above all, it is important that the Government abide by the law and, in this particular case, the Government is not complying with the law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u157	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Liberal Initiative, social communication works even as a fourth power, being essential in any democratic regime. No rule of law can really exist without social communication. This fourth power is fully exercised only if there is true independence from the so-called classical powers of the State: the legislature, the executive and the judiciary. We are, by conviction, against a subsidized press, thanks to the favours of political power and conditioned by the allocation of funds entered in the State budget. The press actually fulfills its mission only if it works, in the first line, as a counterpower to whom it governs, but also to whom it legislates, as any one of us in this House, and to whom justice is applied in the courts. A subsidized press is a state-of-the-art press; it is a less autonomous press, a less free press, thus making fundamental scrutiny mechanisms more fragile in a democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u160	Without abdicating this firm position of principle, we do not ignore that the existing media agencies, especially in the Portuguese communities in the diaspora, perform other missions, also very relevant. They are fundamental in the dissemination of Portuguese language, in the integration of our immigrants into host societies and also in the encouragement of civic participation and mobilization in Portuguese elections. Moreover, they are a fundamental link between the various elements of these communities, sometimes separated by large geographical distances, reaching them more quickly and more frequently, including, than our diplomatic and consular authorities. This mission has become even more important due to recent migration flows. I have already said it and said it again: we are today the European Country with a higher proportion of the resident population and the one that has been set out there. About 20% of our compatriots live across borders, many are new immigrants, younger generations, but they also need to maintain ties to their country of origin, to the one who is our land. We are therefore not insensitive to the legislative initiative under discussion and that gave rise to this agenda. Expanding the state's institutional advertising campaigns to the media agencies that have as recipients Portuguese and Lusodescendants in diaspora is an initiative that does not deserve our opposition, provided there are, of course, very strict criteria for the application of public money, the taxpayer's money. To this end, we must demand the strict application of the rules of transparency, objectivity and equity for newspapers, magazines, radios, televisions and online publications, without discrimination on the basis of political sympathies or ideological criteria, without covert propaganda, covert messages of recognition and manifest public relevance. The recent experience of the pandemic has demonstrated the risks of government interference in the media through public funding on the pretext of the dissemination of institutional advertising, in flagrant violation of the rules of equity, discriminating the most uncomfortable titles. In the name of democratic transparency, we advocate the publicity of all beneficiaries of state advertising expenditure, as well as of the amounts spent. We consider it essential that all information on this matter be made available to the public in detail and on a regular basis in a timely manner and on easy-to-read digital platforms. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with unwavering certainty, the Liberal Initiative will always be on the front line, in defense of non-discrimination, whatever it is, for respect for freedom of the press and for the strengthening of the fourth power. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u161	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a speech on behalf of the Free Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not easy, sometimes, from our country, from our community in Portugal, to have a notion of the importance of resilience that this press has in the diaspora. When we think that a newspaper like LusoAmerican is going to be 100 years old; when we think that, in Luxembourg, they are the Luxembourg newspapers themselves that seek to have supplements in Portuguese; when, on a transit night, in the United States, we realize that there are radio channels in English and Portuguese, but in no other language; when we hear dogmatic speeches about nationalism and cosmopolitanism here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u163	Shut up! You'd like to know how to give a speech, but you don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u164	...we don't realize that these diaspora newspapers serve Portuguese, Brazilian, Cape Verdean, Angolans...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u165	You're very saloon!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u166	They are a contact point for anyone who wants to know football news from their country of origin,... [[CH protests.]] ... but they are also the place where there are the forums where the parents of Lusodescendants students in high schools in the United States will seek out the pedagogical difficulties of their children and compare notes. Now, the press archive in the diaspora, in Massachusetts, in Dartmouth, has many newspapers that have not survived and in many countries are experiencing many difficulties. Therefore, this initiative on the part of the Socialist Party is well worth monitoring, as we will follow the NAP initiative, which extends the scope of these support, because our communities in the diaspora deserve more and less hollow and empty speeches.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u167	You had a minute and a half to say this! But you'd better be quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u168	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The media largely live on advertising revenues and revenue from institutional advertising, in particular, are essential for the maintenance of the activity of dozens and dozens of publications. Attributing the diaspora social communication bodies the right also to access the revenue of institutional advertising is, in our view, entirely fair. It is important that there be rules for the conduct of institutional advertising campaigns by the State which obeys transparency, non-discrimination and equity in access. It seems to us, therefore, that it is a step towards improving this fairness that the media agencies of the diaspora can benefit from this advertising and these revenues in a transparent way, even by the role, as it has already been said, that these bodies have in information, identity, cohesion, linkage to the national community, membership, dissemination of activities, a citizen being exercised, both in the host country and in the countries of origin. Yes, the Portuguese diaspora, like the other diasporas, is made up of migrants, people who maintain their habits and sociability, who are not or want to be assimilated in host countries and who are often victims of racism. Yeah, they're migrants. It is migrants who come out and migrants who enter all countries. Another issue which is also debated, in addition to the Socialist Party's proposal, which I have already mentioned, is the inclusion of independent administrative entities, including regulatory entities in this institutional advertising regime, as proposed by the NAP. It seems to us that it is a good idea and that it must be welcomed. Finally, on the recommendation regarding the fulfilment of deadlines in the disclosure of support, nothing against. We regret that compliance with the law by the Government must be the subject of a recommendation from the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u170	I would like to congratulate all the Members and all the Members. Members and for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, I shall immediately speak to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We very much acknowledge and appreciate the role played by the social communication bodies aimed at Portuguese communities abroad. They are, in fact, an aggregate element of cohesion and also an element for the promotion of our culture, ensuring, in many circumstances, the access of Portuguese communities to information, ensuring that they are connected to the country, its regions, its lands. We therefore believe that the guarantee of the necessary support for these media agencies should be present in our intervention. The objective proposed here, in particular by the Socialist Party, is also to extend the state's institutional advertising campaigns to social communication bodies directed at Portuguese communities abroad, is a worthwhile objective. In particular, we also talk about advertising campaigns with content that are directed exclusively to these same communities, and whose access to this information by the State is important. There is often difficulty—and we can give the example of the last legislative elections—in bringing information to the Portuguese communities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u172	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u173	...and these campaigns are important. What we do not understand, with regard to the proposal which the Socialist Party brings to debate, is that, with regard to this objective, which is, in fact, as we have just mentioned, meritorious, it has introduced two rules which have nothing to do with the question addressed to the Portuguese communities. in this sense, we liked to understand why. What was the objective and what does the Socialist Party want with these two rules? A first standard is not to allow access to the institutional campaign by the State to local and regional media bodies, which, by majority or minority means, directly or indirectly, have public participation. Why? What is the reason for this issue and discrimination on the part of the media that have this public participation? The second question concerns the possibility of expanding the distribution of institutional advertising campaigns so that they can also be carried out directly through the representative associations of the sector. What is the Socialist Party's objective with this rule? With regard to an initiative addressed to the Portuguese communities, with a very concrete objective in relation to the social media bodies specifically directed to these communities, what is the reason for the Socialist Party to insert, in this context, two rules that effectively have nothing to do with this matter? In addition to these rules, we would like to know what the objective and intention is. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u174	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I now give the floor to Mr João Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD defends and fights for free, independent and free media, capable of being immune to the financial difficulties that the sector is experiencing, in particular with a lack of support and assistance. The Government has an obligation to support, cross-borderly, unequivocally and unconditionally, those who transmit information of proximity and credibility. However, today this is not happening: there are obvious conditions and the PSD loudly lifts its voice against these same conditions, for the sake of democracy and our rule of law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u176	There are parliamentary groups that still have time to intervene, but have not entered the Bureau any entries. We therefore proceed immediately to the closure of this item on the agenda, having the floor, to that end, Mr Paulo Pisco, which will have 2 minutes and 6 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by thanking all the speakers here, particularly those of the Free, the Left and the Communist Party, who have focused on the central issue, related to the importance of the Portuguese communities and to having media bodies that can also benefit from this important support which is institutional advertising. This is a very important recognition for the Portuguese communities and not only for the media. It is not just about benefiting the media with fair support. Above all, it is a matter of strengthening our communities so that they can have a greater capacity for affirmation in their host countries. Actually, this is what's at stake here. Let me say that I also cannot understand that such an important party, with such an important history, such as the PSD, in the area of the communities, has completely deserted this debate and has not said practically a word about the importance of the media in the Portuguese communities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even because the PSD seems to have forgotten to include Portuguese communities when it made the change of law in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u178	Fraquinho!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u179	This is an amendment which the PS is very honoured to bring here, now, to end discrimination. It is necessary to know the Portuguese communities well in order to realize this importance. There are other parties, such as the Arrival, which make a kind of intervention in which it clearly reveals its ignorance regarding the panorama of Portuguese communities. When speaking in the international press, we would like to know if you are talking about, for example, the Financial Times, Le Monde or El País, or any other kind of press of that nature. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] In fact, the project that brings us here is an immense superficiality and is not strictly understood of what they want with the articulation, nor so little with the exposure of motives, speaking much more about television than precisely about the media in the Portuguese communities. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] In reply to the Communist Party, I would just like to point out that, on this very important issue about institutional advertising and this change which, in my view, is historic, we have taken advantage of to clarify some aspects of the issues which you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u180	Did you take advantage? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u181	Being the law being discussed, it's an opportunity...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u182	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u183	...to improve your content. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u184	He wanted to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u185	We therefore conclude the debate around point three of our agenda. We are now moving to point four, which consists in the joint assessment of various bills, in general, and a draft resolution, which I am going to identify: Bill No 135 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the status of the police condition; Draft Law No 136 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Democratic management of the GNR and PSP disease care system ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 158 / 2005 of 20 September ) ; Draft Resolution No 158 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government initiate a study and discussion process with a view to creating a national civilian police force to replace the PSP and the GNR ; Bill No. 147 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Update of the amounts of the fixed component of the military condition supplement; Bill No. 245 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Elimination of the sustainability factor applied to retired public security police officers not covered by Decree-Law No 4 / 2017 of 6 January; Bill No. 254 / XV / 1. a (CH) — assigns officers with police functions of the security forces and services to the qualification of the rapid wear occupation; Draft Law No 256 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 243 / 2015 of 19 October ensuring compliance with the criteria for pre-invoicing and retirement of Public Security Police professionals in accordance with their professional status; Bill No. 381 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Increases the fixed component of the service supplement and risk of the personnel of the security forces and services. in this sense, we passed a grid D to a wider grid of debate, corresponding to a grid C, allowing longer times for a more intense debate, around a matter, certainly, more complex. To open this debate, I give the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents today a set of initiatives to respond to structural problems that affect the police condition and the social and labour situation of its professionals, as well as to promote a reflection on the model of police organization that best corresponds to the needs to safeguard the safety and tranquillity of the population. As a result of the urgency of solving the various problems that have been raised, the political debate on security forces and services is not always done with the depth that would be desirable. But it is precisely because the police face serious socio-professional problems and because the country faces challenges in the structuring of its internal security policy that this debate is unacceptable. It is time to advance the recognition of rights and better working conditions, the dignity and elevation of the police condition. It is also necessary to move forward and take the lead in the creation of a more robust and coherent legislative building, common to all the elements that perform police functions, defining the basis of the police condition. They are security forces and services, so the law determines the PSP ( Public Security Police ), the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), the ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ), the Maritime Police, the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ), the Judicial Police ( PJ ) and the Prison Guard Corps. However, as a result of this diversity of statutes and organic laws, there are not only omitted aspects, unjustified discrepancies and inequalities, such as unnecessary equations. It is therefore necessary to define a minimum body of duties and rights in a status of the police condition. To define this status is first of all to safeguard the rights of professionals. We are talking about aspects as concrete as the establishment of a 35-hour weekly schedule, the remuneration of extraordinary work and the fight against work overload. We are talking about a dignified risk allowance and the elimination of existing disparities. We're talking about the security of accommodation, when the police are displaced from their area of residence. We are talking about aspects of training that deserve homogenisation, with a view to comprehensive training throughout the career, eliminating practices that are incompatible with police function. We are talking about the right to retirement and respect for the age limit, so that it does not depend on the political management of the asset. We are talking about a progression regime in careers that prevents indefinite stay in the same position. We are also talking about other aspects, such as the right to trade union association, the right to health and the democratic participation of professionals in the health care and social support structures, which we also propose today. We are also talking about the burden and use of public transport. Mrs. Members, if the duties performed are police, then there must be a common denominator on the basis of the police condition. This denominator must be based and characterized by subordination to national interest and public interest, by defending democratic legality, internal security and fundamental rights of citizens, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, by subjecting to risk, by subordination to the hierarchy of command and subject to a disciplinary regulation itself, by the existence of a working time, by permanent availability for the service, for training and training, by restriction, only in terms of law, exercise of rights, by personal and professional conduct in accordance with the ethical and ethical principles of the police function, by establishing special rights in the area of risk compensation, health and hygiene and safety at work, in careers, training and other compensations and royalties. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the way is going, but walking is taking steps forward. It establishes our Constitution that security is, first and foremost, a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u188	In its Article 272. it defines matters relating to the police, leaving for the law the establishment of a security forces regime. The CFP considers that security forces and services should be civil in nature and should evolve in this direction, including those still operating under military status such as the GNR, and under the so-called « militarized status », whichever is, like the Maritime Police. If these forces and services share a common mission, it is necessary to put an end to the overlaps of functional competences and replications, potentially generating conflict, and to move forward towards integrated resource management, more functional and rational. The mission of the civil GNR is, to a large extent, the same as that performed by the PSP and makes no sense that the same occurrences are treated by different forces, according to the mere trace of the jurisdictional areas. It does not make sense that, lacking effectiveness, we do not take into account a solution for the sharing and empowerment of infrastructures, means and knowledge, for the release of effective for the police on the ground, reducing part of the administrative work, rather than closing teams, which in no way favours the policing of proximity and prevention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u190	The project that the CFP brings is not a closed proposal, but only the starting point for a discussion that we believe must be made, without precipitation, but with the idea that the organisational model of security forces in Portugal needs to evolve to meet the challenges it has to face. Mrs. Members, these initiatives do not exempt, first, from adding to the numerous proposals that the CFP has successively submitted over the years, from then on the urgent need to improve the remuneration table and supplements, to properly recognize the risk and rapid wear, as well as the right to collective bargaining with representative structures, among others. It's time to value the cops today. We have the opportunity to move towards a more balanced, appropriate and sustainable system based on synergies and based, above all, on the dignity of professionals and the police condition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u191	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification, to which he has informed the Bureau, he will answer together. For a first request for clarification, I give the floor to Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Alma Rivera, we all recognize that it is always possible to do more in terms of valuing the work of men and women of the security forces and services. We also know that this is an permanently unfinished process, whether by improving working conditions or by improving career attractiveness itself. What we no longer think serious is to have a debate here exclusively focused on what is still to be done, on what still needs to be fully improved and ignored all the important steps that the Government of the Republic has taken in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u193	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u194	The gentlemen. Members know — because they cannot ignore it — that, for example, the service and risk supplement in the security forces has a variable component that is indexed to the value of the remuneration. Well, if we had the biggest increase in the base-paying decade,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u195	Whoa, whoa!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u196	... this means that the service and risk supplement also has an increase, Mr. Members, an increase that may reach 7.9%.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u197	How much is that?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u198	This seems relevant to me and it's good that you get it, I repeat, it's good that you get it. It must also be acknowledged that although we are 4. the country—have done this number well! — the European Union with a higher rate of police per 100 000 inhabitants,... [[CH protests.]] ... the Government of the Republic continues to be strongly committed to recruiting men and women for security forces and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u200	For us to have an idea, only this year will be 2400 more cops and guards hired!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u201	How many do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u202	And only this year! To which more than 2600 are already being trained, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u203	And how many do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u204	in addition, as already mentioned yesterday until exhaustion, a huge bet from the Government of the Republic in housing: we spoke of a total of EUR 60 million for the purchase and provision of housing to security forces and services. But also in terms of career attractiveness, there are significant steps that have been taken by the Government of the Republic : we speak of the Law on Infrastructure Programming and Equipment for the Forces and Security Service, which will allow these men and women to make available, in addition to an investment in infrastructure, an investment in the modernization of their equipment, which certainly improves the attractiveness of their career. It is important — for the sake of a serious debate — that all this should be said, at the same time that it is recognised that there will certainly be more to do, like the honourable Member, to ensure that the representative structures of the security forces can have access to and participate in the management of the SAD ( Health Care Service ), having merit in the proposed legislation of the CFP. In fact, Mrs. Deputy was present at the hearing we had here last week to Dr. César Nogueira, as petitioner and representative of the APG (Association of GNR Guard Professionals ), who said well how important this project is for security forces and services. There is certainly a way to go about this. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Therefore, the question I ask you, Mrs Deputies, is whether you are capable of making the same recognition. in the same way that we recognize that the CFP has important proposals, it can recognize the excellent work that the Government of the Republic has done in this area in order to enhance the performance of both functions and the attractiveness of the career itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u205	The second request for clarification by the PSD Parliamentary Group is by Mrs Ofélia Ramos, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not the first, it is not the second, it is the third time that the PCP Parliamentary Group brings the status of the police condition to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u207	Let's see if it's the last one! Is this it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u208	And on this initiative it must be said, of course, that the PSD recognises the goodness of the subject under discussion. However, as we have already mentioned, the CFP initiative is the renewal of an initiative already presented and rejected, in the specialty, in the XIII Legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u209	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u210	It's exactly the same. in this sense, it is important to remember Mr. Members that this initiative was generally adopted with the vote in favour of the PSD, because at the time we understood that this matter deserved a more careful and deeper reflection.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u211	I'm glad you remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u212	But in the discussion, in the specialty, we made clear the PSD's understanding of this initiative and, in line with what we said three years ago, we maintained the same reservations we left here at that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u213	Ah, the question of consistency...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u214	We therefore reiterate that this initiative has lost both opportunity and time. This is because if, in the past, this initiative made sense in view of the government's delay in regulating certain matters, today it is not because these matters, in large part, are already legislated not only in the statutes of their careers but also in minor legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u216	However, and despite this redundancy which may result in derogations from the law, the PSD reaffirms its agreement with certain principles and rules consistent with this initiative, but we cannot, in any way, follow the rules that make the Assembly of the Republic legislate on matters of government competence, which would thus be conditioned and limited in its regulatory capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u218	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u219	On the other hand, the gentlemen. Members know as well as I do, and as someone has already said here, that each force and each security service has different forms of organization, different ways of operation, different ways of acting and that which adapts to each other easily does not adapt to each other. Therefore, this generalisation intended by the CFP should be guarded and dispensed. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] But there is another issue on which we have diverged, and which we have made clear in the previous discussion on the speciality of this initiative, which has to do with the political option of the CFP to include the CNG in this statute, thereby removing it from its military condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u220	What's the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u221	This is not a question!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u222	In addition, this political option also welcomes the other initiative we are discussing today, the draft resolution that recommends the Government to conduct a study with a view to the creation of a national police, of a civil nature, in place of the PSP and the GNR.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u223	Madam Member, let me interrupt you to tell you that your time is already long gone for the request for clarification. It is clear that it can continue because its time is being withdrawn from the PSD Parliamentary Group's overall time. Therefore, please conclude in any way, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u224	Yes, Mr President, let me finish, then, that I will put the matter to the honourable Member at the end. Let me just finish here my reflection on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u225	He's just reflecting!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u226	In short, with this initiative, the CFP seeks a restructuring of the security forces and services that puts an end to the dual pendant of our police system. This is in the wake of the representative structures of the security forces and services and without the promotion of a serious, in-depth and extensive discussion on this matter. This is very serious because it is a very important issue, which should not be treated in this way and without proper preparation and dignity. In addition, a possible paradigm change, such as the one proposed by the CFP, will certainly generate instability and this is particularly worrying at a time particularly difficult for security forces and services, which face numerous difficulties, largely because they have been sacrificed by a government that does not fulfill what it promises, a government that announces and does not do. This government has failed and continues to be unable to train the security forces and to dignify its professionals. It is a government that announces millions of euros of investment for security forces and services and then is unable to execute, as has happened with the programming law, a government that announces a multi-annual programme of admissions to security forces and services of 10 000 effectives and that then is half, or less, of that recruitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u227	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u228	Therefore, Mr President, to conclude, the PCP bench seems to be alien to the criticisms it makes about the government's lack of investment in security forces and services and the lack of dignity of its professionals, but I must remind the honourable Member that for six years...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u229	Six years! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u230	Mrs. Member, I'm very sorry, but you really have to finish. You would like to make the request for final clarification to Mrs Alma Rivera, because the situation is not comportable, Mrs Deputies. I ask you to help the Bureau, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u231	All right, Mr. President, I'll finish. I would like to remind the honourable Member that, for six years, they have been relevant to the government and much of the problems that have been accruing over these years are your responsibility. So I ask: which side were they on at that time, on the side of the government or on the side of the security forces? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u232	In reply to the two requests for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera, who has 59 seconds to do so, with some tolerance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u233	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia for his questions and Mrs. Ofélia Ramos for her speech... [[PCP laughter.]] I would like to start by asking — since no question has been raised by the Democratic Social Party — whether the problems are solved. I also ask whether it is compatible with the speech they make, of valorization of security forces and services, with the idea that everything must be left in it and that nothing must be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u234	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u235	So if the problems stay, what do we have to do? See, on the bench, how does the Social Democratic Party do? Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u236	What did you guys do for six years?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u237	Is it to see the problems and not to present alternatives? No, Madam Member, on the part of the CFP, we have concrete proposals, we defend them because they are good and they are what is now necessary for the country to move forward. [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] Yes, it is necessary to study an alternative. If things are not right, we need to understand why, rationalize resources, take advantage of what we have, in order to strengthen our ability to intervene. And yes, it is necessary to improve, and much, the conditions of security forces and services, but we have not counted on the PSD vote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u238	We can't count, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u239	... in particular in the six years preceding. With regard to the issue raised by Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia, I believe that the Socialist Party should not take into account that it does not realize the situation of enormous and just dissatisfaction in which the security forces are at the moment and...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u241	...that the Socialist Party has not given an answer. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot approve — and now because of a lot of insistentness from the CFP —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u242	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u243	...a risk allowance, undermining the expectations of it to be comparable to that of other forces and services and security...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u244	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u245	... and then continue every year remembering that they made this increase of 70 € when they are paid 100 € of fixed component. Why have they not approved the CFP proposal to answer this question? I give you a question: then does the PS admit that it will approve a proposal for the participation of the representative structures of the security forces and services in its professions? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u246	And now, to present the initiatives of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our military and security forces members know well who is next to them and who really defends them in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u249	They are certainly not those who have been in government for years and do nothing to improve their careers, to strengthen their authority or to give the most basic equipment they need to carry out their mission. It is not even the extreme left which, by mere ideological prejudice, is always ready to point the finger at the police and the military, insulting them and constantly distrusting their actions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u251	The military and the police, who give so much to the country, know that there is a party that always fights for its dignity and valorization: the party arrives. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why we propose today, in this House, the increase of the fixed component of the military service supplement to 100 € per month for the military of the Armed Forces and elements of the military personnel framework of the Navy. With this measure, we intend to correct an injustice and restore harmony between military and security forces. Do our military not deserve this appreciation? We will see who the parliamentary groups will support this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u253	On the other hand, we propose to correct the injustice that about 120 retired PSP professionals are victims, who saw their monthly pension paid by the application of the sustainability factor. For a matter of months, they were not covered by the retroactive application of the elimination of this factor. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are we going to correct this injustice with regard to these 120 agents or are we going to keep looking to the side, as if it were nothing with us? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there are professions of rapid wear and subject to high levels of pressure, there is no doubt that being a cop is one of them, either for emotional wear or for severe or constant physical wear. But the professionals of the security forces and services may only use the figure of retirement and pre-appointment in "debtedly attested health situations" or in the event of reaching or exceeding the limits of age or length of stay in the job or function, or even when, in legal terms, the conditions of transition to reserve, pre-appointment or availability are met after 36 years of service and 55 years of age. To frame the activity in the dimension of fast wear professions is of the most elementary social and professional justice and an imperative of consciousness to which the arrival cannot return the back. Are they going to move from words to acts and follow the arrival in this wish or are we going to continue alone in this fight? If so, that is not why we will give up raising our voice whenever necessary, to defend these professionals who have sworn to give life for us. Now we are 12, but we will be many more, until one day we will be enough to change Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u254	Mr President, the Bureau does not record any registration for clarification, so I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, to present draft Law No 381 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The work that has been carried out by security forces and services cannot be dissociated from the fact that Portugal is considered to be one of the safest countries in the world. However, this work involves shifts, nights, weekends, stress relief, putting themselves in risk situations that result in enormous physical and emotional wear and tear for these same agents. In addition to the day-to-day risk of this profession, the repercussions of shiftwork and night work may also cause various problems, such as sleep disturbances, cardiovascular or metabolic problems, social and family problems, work accidents, sometimes fatal, or early aging, among others that the constant stress may depole. There are data from IGAI ( General Inspection of Internal Administration ) that show us that more than 3000 elements of PSP and GNR have been injured and four have died in service in the last three years. These numbers well reflect the danger and risk associated with the activity of these professionals, which justifies, from the outset, their appreciation and recognition of the right to adequate compensation for the risks associated with their profession. This appreciation and recognition were not ensured, for example, by the increase of the supplement per service and risk, which occurred in 2021. This is not at all a new issue, and has been discussed here several times, both at the level of the State budget and also at the level of the legislative process. But the NAP once again brings a proposal that aims to ensure the increase of the fixed component of the supplement for risk and service of PSP and GNR to the €443, and that it is updated annually. It also aims to ensure the increase of 20 % of round or patrol supplements of the PSP, so that they have adequate correspondence to the risk and physical wear associated with the profession. We cannot want to build a safer, more humanized, closer society without valuing all those who work for the improvement of the lives of the populations and for the safety of them. This is necessarily due to the value of the incomes and working conditions of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u256	The speeches of the parliamentary groups which do not present legislative initiatives on this point follow. The order of inscriptions to intervene is as follows: by the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz ; by the Free Member, Mr Rui Tavares ; by the PSD, Mrs Cristiana Ferreira, and by the PS, Mrs Susana Amador. I therefore give the floor immediately to the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, through Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problems of the security forces are problems of the safety of all of us. And the problems that exist in the security forces at the moment leave us quite anxious.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u258	How many proposals did you make?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u259	They leave us very anxious, because we recognize that it is very difficult to do good work when conditions are difficult and inadequate to the risk of the profession and because we recognize that it is very difficult to do good work when the public takes the worst examples of the security forces and assumes that they represent the whole, which obviously does not correspond to the truth. We also recognize that it is very difficult to do good work when conditions are very harsh and support at the level of mental health is almost non-existent. And we also recognize that it is very difficult to do a good job when, like all workers in Portugal, if you are subject to an absolutely excessive tax burden, always accompanied by the feeling that you are paying beyond the just one, to receive no less than the minimum.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u260	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u261	And yet the security forces in Portugal do a good job, maintain the safety of all of us and pride us daily with their acts of courage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u263	Last week we had the opportunity to discuss issues related to security forces and services. in this same plenary, the Liberal Initiative presented two draft resolutions that were voted on and approved and that I remember. in one of the projects we proposed that the Annual Internal Security Report contain more data that can reflect the reality of the relationship between police forces and citizens, giving this document a greater legitimacy to support the various policies that are being adopted in this area. The implementation of this recommendation will contribute to the promotion of transparency and objectivity in data processing, essential for a good political debate. Only through the crossing of the true facts concerning security forces will we be able to understand how to act in this matter. In the second approved draft resolution, we sought to ensure that police forces function in their maximum capacity, being operational and ready to intervene, promoting street police and reducing the allocation of agents to administrative tasks, which should not be assured by themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u265	The reorganization of the teams is essential, when we know that the Portuguese State cannot ensure the minimum operating and health conditions in most of the existing teams.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u266	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u267	We want better allocation of public resources, more police on the street and a closer and closer response to people's real needs. The proposals of the Liberal Initiative are made to consider improving the working conditions of the security forces and promoting the policing of proximity. When police-related issues are discussed, public security is also discussed. Better police organization means more security for everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u268	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u269	A little longer a month ago this House debated, voted and the PS approved the State Budget for 2023. But, behold, this budget has not cooled, yet it has not even come into force and we are again discussing budgetary measures both on the side of the NAP and on the side of the Arrival. The arrival shall submit new proposals for the pre-appointment and retirement of security forces and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u270	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u271	It should be reflected, but above all, in deciding what is presented in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u272	Should I?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u273	What about IL? Zero! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u274	On the one hand, it makes a bill in which it changes the minimum age of pre-invoicing to 50 years. On the other hand, it presents another bill that aims to attribute an imperative character to the conditions of pre-appointment already existing, i.e., the minimum age of 55 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u275	And did IL present any?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u276	We do not know if they propose that pre-invoicing in police forces occur at 50 or that they prefer and agree, after all, that is at 55 years of age. Moreover, the change that they propose to the professional status of PSP staff is strange. They want pre-appointment conditions to be imperative, but with this, your only objective is quite clear, i.e. they intend to overturn what has been approved in previous budgets, providing that current conditions cannot be changed by any other rule in the opposite direction. We're not surprised, arriving is a master in subversion of rules... [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] ... and in the presentation of projects that run counter to constitutional standards.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u277	The IL has a blank sheet!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u278	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not much to say about this! We have a bill that aims to condition forever the legislator, which is completely unobstructed. The Liberal Initiative will always be prepared for a serious and substantiated discussion, with a reformist and unhindered vision of what state services are, in particular our security forces. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u279	Let's move on to another intervention now. Mr Rui Tavares, from the Free, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the CFP for the presentation of this proposal, for the marking of this debate and for the constituency that it presents over the years in the presentation of these initiatives on the police condition, in which, in fact, it contrasts with other parties who intend to present themselves as friends of the police when they were favorable, in past times, to the greatest cuts to which the security forces have already been subjected.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u281	Are you talking about security forces? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u282	Therefore, generally, we follow the proposals that they make in the field not only wages, but also the protection of mental health, buildings, all the material and infrastructure that the police need. Although we have listened carefully to Mrs Alma Rivera, we do not follow the reflection on the merger of PSP and GNR as well as the same police force. It has deep roots in our history and is a dual system that exists in many other European countries and the rest of the world, such as France, Spain, Italy, but also Poland and Romania. Let us not forget the functions that the GNR has performed abroad with high quality — let us think of Timor-Leste, for example — and of the functions of police cooperation of military origin, but of a civil nature, which it has performed in the case of the European gendarmerie force. From this point of view, I believe that this has not yet been the case that the CFP arguments have convinced us. However, it is a reflection that must be made, because there is indeed duplication of costs and some economies of scale that could be made between the two police forces, with more cooperation and not necessarily confusion. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u283	We now turn to an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Cristiana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD has been alerting us to the need to look back at the military condition, and it is always important to remember that it is the State that has a special responsibility to look after the interests of the military. The Government's failure to update the amounts of the fixed component of the military condition supplement, in view of the updated security forces, has broken the harmony between military and security forces in this area. The PSD considers that the remuneration table for the Armed Forces, with respect to the first positions of the career, is based on a clearly lower remuneration than the security forces, an inexplicable discrepancy, generating misunderstanding and revealing disorganization and lack of a comprehensive view of the Government in these matters. It was based on this disparity that the PSD presented proposals for amendment to the review of the remuneration table. These PSD proposals were rejected by the Socialist Party. in this sense, the PSD cannot fail to agree with the creation of financial and / or statutory assumptions aimed at the appreciation of the military career. With regard to the initiatives currently under discussion on security forces, we must also say that it is known that, if Portugal benefits from high levels of security when compared with other countries, this result is essentially achieved at the cost of commitment and dedication of the elements of the different security forces and services. But this does not mean that there are no structural problems so often referred to here. As a result, the PSD presented proposals aimed at valuing the careers of GNR and PSP, also plunged by the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the PSD can not fail to say is that there are intransmissible political responsibilities relating to people, human resources, career development, remuneration and non-remunerative conditions, which close the discussion of some of the aspects raised by the various parliamentary initiatives, which do not exhaust or exclude them. The difficulties that our Armed Forces and security forces face, along with an erring, diverging and incongruent action by the government, with bold measures, without a real strategic and global vision, further exacerbate the problems of human resources and every passing day gradually increases a growing feeling of discontent on the part of the elements that integrate them. And this is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, which deserves our concern and continued attention. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u285	For an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed again, in this plenary, questions relating to security forces, internal security and, in particular, in the view of human resources and their valorization, and we welcome, of course, all the proponents for bringing this matter so important to the collation. This is, in fact, a priority for the Government, a priority for the Socialist Party and is included in our Government Programme, in the electoral programme and also in the context of successive State budgets. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] The areas of internal administration and the internal security programme show in particular a total of EUR 2601 million in 2023. Members, plus EUR 220 million vis-à-vis the 2022 budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u287	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u288	After that, it is not semantic, it is not rhetorical: the dignification of men and women who integrate the security forces and services goes by improving their working conditions, firstly, with new and re-qualified facilities and with better protection equipment. We therefore executed EUR 340 million of the previous programming law and now we have EUR 607 million for the new programming, exactly for that: for new installations, for requalification and for improving the individual protection of our agents.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u289	Rule is this!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u290	They're not giving anything, it's your duty!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u291	It is a strategic vision, it is a consolidated vision and it has budgetary translation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u292	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u293	And in these areas, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're doing it and we're doing it. [[CH's laughs.]] We want to do even more, better and always in social dialogue. Since the first hour, with Minister José Luís Carneiro, you have been on the agenda to hear our union forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u294	The cops are happy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u295	Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also value the wage mass and, in 2023, our increase, the proposed increase, is the largest of the last 10 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u296	How much? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u297	This is also not semantic, are facts, is evidence, and will be applied predictably in 2024, 2025 and 2026. It is a multiannual perspective in which an average annual increase of more than 5 % of wages is expected by 2026... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u298	Give us the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u299	... which means that, until the end of the legislature, we will have an average salary gain of 20%. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u300	But how much is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u301	There will also be a reinforcement due to the variable component of the risk supplement, which represents, as you know, 20 % of the wage base. By increasing wages and this basis, the variable component also increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u303	And the fixed component tripled, for 2021, from 31 € to 100 €. With the new increase in the value of the supplement per service and risk in the security forces, the value of this supplement is now set between 279, 95 € and 964, 63 €. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to highlight and stop myself in the proposals that are here today in appreciation. First of all, I refer to the challenge posed by the Portuguese Communist Party in its draft resolution for the eventual creation of a national police force. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, it is not an option that is in the commitments made in the Government Programme and we do not meet this challenge, firstly, because our plural model has proved to be effective. In fact, it is this plural model that allows us to be what we are today:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u304	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u305	...a safe country, one of the safest and most peaceful countries in the world. And this plural and dual model is the guarantee of a system that gives us higher levels of self-control and higher levels of regulation. What is our way in this matter? It is to bet on sharing resources, sharing solutions between our forces and security services. Through what? Through a gradual integration of technical support structures, logistical support, of both forces, which allows us to eliminate redundancy, reduce costs, freeing human resources. Where to? To serve and support the people. That's the goal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the status of the police condition, a challenge which the CFP Parliamentary Group also presents to us on its own initiative, is that this proposal covers a whole range of bodies with a very different nature, professional status and operating standards within the same legal framework, which does not seem appropriate. Some of the provisions are difficult to implement in the logistics plan, of great scope, which generates large operational and also financial impacts that are very difficult to estimate. Moreover, as you know, these careers have their own specificities that are already regulated. With regard to retirement, we must bear in mind that currently GNR, PSP, PJ, and Prison Guard staff benefit from a reduction in the age of access to the pension, which corresponds to less than six years regarding the normal age of access to the old age pension, precisely because of the greater weariness that is recognized in these professions. If the proposed legislative amendment of the Arrival were approved, these occupational groups could benefit from an early retirement period of about 11 years from the general scheme. And this, Mr. Members, as you know, also have another impact on the level of human resources breakdown. Just to give an example, with this proposal, about 25% of PJ research career workers would be in a position to move on to availability, which would be, as you know, contrary to government policy in this area, which has been greatly strengthened in this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u307	Finally, in relation to the sustainability factor applied to the pensions of PSP agents retired and not covered by Decree-Law No 4 / 2017, it should be noted that the application of the sustainability factor to staff retirement pensions of the PSP began - as the remaining pensioner universe of the General Pension Fund - on 1 January 2008, as a result of an amendment introduced by the Law of 2007, which raises doubts as to why the elimination of the sustainability factor to PSP staff who retired only from 7 March 2014 until 1 November 2015. The reasons indicated for the elimination of this sustainability factor apply both to retired personnel before and to retired personnel after that date, so, since there is no material reason enough to justify this discrimination, this measure would certainly be considered unconstitutional and would necessarily extend the universe to retired personnel from 1 January 2008 until today. For this reason, there are many reasons why we are skeptical about the impacts that are at stake here and, above all, about social peace that these changes, in terms of convergence and sustainability, have aroused and led, as you know, to a great reform by the Socialist Party, which has maintained or, at least, preserved that same stability. Mrs. Members, we are available to assess these issues, including those of the PCP bill, on the issues of democratic management of the disease care system, always in an extended framework of dialogue. Our priorities are clear, they are obvious in terms of internal security: consolidation of the high security rates that the country has been registering; strengthening of the internal security system; increasing the preventive and reactive response, through the enhancement, always, of our security forces. That is always our way, our course, in search of the just way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u308	The Bureau records Mr André Ventura's registration to make a request for clarification to Mrs Susana Amador, but the PS has already spent time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u309	The government's giving time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u310	How are we going to do this, Mr? Do you keep the question, that you will not have an answer, or will you wait for an intervention, which will come not immediately after Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has spoken?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u311	I speak immediately, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u312	All right. He then asks the question, which actually turns into an intervention. That's what we've been following in this house and that's how we're going to do right now. Mr Ventura has the floor to make a request for clarification, which, in fact, is not, because it is an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already been used by the Socialist Party to use all the time and, therefore, we have to give no explanation on the issues at all. It just seems a bit strange that Mrs. Susana Amador comes to this House to say that, and I quote, "Polices are priority material for the PS." If this wasn't a joke, it was certainly a tragedy, as it is, actually. Mrs Deputy also said that the PS had made the major reforms that the police needed. Mrs. Deputy, this is a serious afternoon, we're not playing here. However, on 30 September 2019, with the PS in the Government, she read : « Police within the limit because the government has not fulfilled 90 % of the promises, accuses the union ». It is not 50 % or 60 %, it is 90 %. from psychological support to risk allowance, career supplement, subsidies for autonomous regions, have not fulfilled a promise, and come here to say that it is a priority matter for the Socialist Party? Sounds like a joke. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The honourable Member speaks of the great reform that the police need. So, why do you now, every time you open a contest, you run less and less? Why, if they're so good? If the men and women who defend us are so good since the PS is in the government, then why don't they compete? How do they compete for operational assistants in municipal chambers, how do they compete for all professions, less for police? You know why? Because what you did was to degrade the police in such a way that no one wants to be a police officer in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Repeat, no one wants to be a police officer in Portugal. That's what they did, nothing else. Subversion of the rules, Mrs Susana Amador? The honourable Member says 'ai and so, it could be unconstitutional', but unconstitutional is what they are doing to these men and women since the government took possession,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u315	... that it is to allow men who risk their lives every day to have no risk allowance, to have miserable supplements and to have to work more than their colleagues across Europe. That would be unconstitutional, and that was what they should be worried about. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u316	Continuing in the speeches, you have the floor by the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u317	The Left Block talking about cops? This is unpublished!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u318	Mr. President, I don't know if I can start... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u319	I'm sorry, I didn't hear it, but you have the whole word, and no one takes your word away from you, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares. [[CH protests.]] I would ask you to respect the speaker. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor. I reiterate, and I would not like to reiterate, that you have every right to use the word at this moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u320	I don't know if they want to fix the finish, but now it's time for the Left Block to talk, so they have to wait.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u321	You have the floor, you have the right to speak, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the Portuguese Communist Party for this schedule, for bringing three legislative initiatives, two bills and a draft resolution, which deserve us a general agreement, and I will detail some aspects of each of them. First of all, we have already followed the proposals relating to the status of the police condition, which unfortunately did not see all of their legislative process completed and therefore has not been transformed into law. We hope that you will now have this possibility, even though there is no parliamentary majority to approve of it because of the demands of the various interventions. But the statute was necessary to ensure homogeneity and equal consideration of equal realities, which are currently present differently in the law, and therefore also with distinct consequences in the reality of the various police forces. Secondly, we have already defended and accompanied, and we will again follow up, the democratic management of both the SAD / PSP systems, both the SAD / GNR systems, but on this subject I must also say that we have a position not only on democratic management but on the form of financing. We believe that the value that is currently paid by professionals, which still stems from the changes made by PSD and CDS during the period of troika, is an abuse, such as an abuse the payment made currently for ADSE (Instituto de Proteção e Assistencia na São Dência ). It should be reduced. It is, in fact, an aspiration of professionals. We proposed this in the context of the State budget, but did not have a parliamentary majority to be approved. However, it was most fundamental justice to follow this issue of payments that, on a monthly basis, the security forces and services professionals do, either for the SAD/PSP or for the SAD/GNR, and the way in which these services are managed and - allow me to think more widely - also about social services, which should be more democratic in this context. I know you are not in the PCP project, but I have heard the party refer to this theme, and we also follow that reflection. There is a more structured debate which is being launched and which, on the left side of the Block, deserves further reflection, which is about whether we should have the model of a civilian police or whether it makes sense to keep the current model, in which we have a civilian police and a military police force, even if we provide civilian services. Our view, which is our historical position, is that we should have a single police officer and that she should have a civilian carousel. That is what exists in several countries and that is what would make sense in democratic Portugal. That is the step that should have been taken at the time of the establishment of the democratic regime, after 25 April, but that was not the choice at the time. We are always in time to review this choice and, on the left side of the Block, we will be part of the majority that rises to that effect, because that is what makes sense in a democratic country of the 21st century, like Portugal. There are a number of other issues going to the debate, many of them recovered from the budgetary debate we had not even a month ago, and our vote is known. We will accompany several of them and I will mention, in particular, one that has had some detail in the debate, which has to do with access to the early reform regime, both in the PSP and in the GNR. We have a law which provides for a right and which, on an annual basis, rejects the practical application of that right is absurd, makes no sense. We look at the PSP Corps, the GNR Corps, and we realize that one of the demands—because they are professions of enormous wear, that have shiftwork, in a rotating way, not always having the same time, and that they do it, often denying the family living space that is given to many other workers—should also have as a reward this early access to reform. In practice, the legislator foresees this possibility and, soon thereafter, year after year, the Government denies that possibility. That's what we reject. We already know what the claim and response the PS brings, because it has already mentioned it in the past: it says that access to reform will lead to a reduction in the number of effects that is not acceptable. But the answer is also obvious: the working conditions are strengthened, the salaries and salaries of security forces professionals are improved and we will be able to have greater attractiveness of these careers, as we will have in the remaining Public Administration. And there we will not have in the police, in the guard, as in other professions of the Public Administration, desert contests.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u323	But something must be done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u324	From that point of view, these remunerations are valued and we will not have this criterion of having to choose between early retirements or we will have a reduced staff of professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u325	For an intervention, the Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival André Ventura, to whom I give the floor at once.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to mention a particular aspect. A week ago, we had a debate here on police — indeed, the setting of a agenda, which is one of the greatest moments in the life of the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic — and the CFP chose to stay out of this agenda, not presenting any initiative,... [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] ...because he doesn't like to mix up when it's to discuss cops. And that's why I wanted to do your own debate today about the police, without doing so at the time that the police needed to be defended. The PCP once again turned their faces. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Moreover, it is always funny what the Liberal Initiative says. It says that some proposals may overturn the rules, others may be absurd, but when we take the script to read the proposals of the Liberal Initiative on Police, they must be so hidden that they do not appear anywhere. So come here to talk about others' proposals, when they do not have one — one! — proposal on police, I think it would embarrass any parliamentary group. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In addition, they voted against the police's allowance for autonomous regions, voted against the prison guard's fixation supplement and even against the pre-reservation and pre-retirement rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u328	That's the truth. You can't lie to the country today, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! When the time came to give money to the police, to give them what they deserved, you joined the Socialist Party and dropped the proposals of the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, if there is a parliamentary group that cannot speak of police is that of the Liberal Initiative. That is the truth of this debate. As for the rest, Mr President, we already know what will be left for history. The attempt on the left, especially the Left Block and the PCP, will remain, hiding this evidence: at the moment that the police were most mistreated, at the most difficult time of their careers, it was not the Reach, nor the Liberal Initiative, nor the PSD that they were supporting the government, were you! Take your responsibility with the Government of the Socialist Party! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u329	And in the truce cuts, who supported it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u330	Are you the ps dog? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u331	It will also use the floor, for a short intervention, of course, the Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative Rodrigo Saraiva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u332	Mr. President and Mr. Members: For a while, I did not want to take refuge in the regimental figure of the appeal to the Bureau. I just wanted to make it clear that this feeling—and I'm going to use a popular expression, much between quotes—is a bit of "poor and ungrateful". In the previous speech, Mr André Ventura even accused him of, last week, not having gone to the game and then came to the top of the Liberal Initiative, which, curiously, was the only party to put forward proposals in that agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u333	What about today? What about today?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u334	He has put forward proposals which cannot be resubmitted this week. It is true that, in this plenary session, only those of the Liberal Initiative were adopted between the proposals of the Arrival and the proposals of the Liberal Initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u335	Ah! It's true, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u336	...but this is part of the democratic game. As part of the democratic game we accept that we can have different views on various themes, on various worlds and that there is no need to shout to participate in the democratic game. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u337	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura has the floor, which, in fact, has 27 seconds to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It is just to clarify what I think needs to be done. Last week, when the arrival wanted to protect the police from the most infamous campaign against them launched in this country, in which they were accused of being racist, xenophobic and extremist, and having the PCP kept silent on this matter, only the Arrival came to the game to defend these men and women who had been exposed, in their identity, by the entire Country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u339	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u340	In fact, the Liberal Initiative came to play, it came. He came to contribute to the RASI (Annual Report on Internal Security) to have the data of those men and women who might have committed hate crimes against others!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u341	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u342	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u343	That is, when these professionals are under fire, the proposal of the Liberal Initiative is to put them even more under fire! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by IL Member Patrícia Gilvaz.]] We therefore fully understand that whoever approved the proposal of the Liberal Initiative was the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u344	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u345	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u346	I tell you one thing: on the day the Socialist Party or the Left Block adopts some initiative coming from the arrive upon police, I am sure that this initiative is so wrong that I should never have entered this House. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u347	Did they ask for proof? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u348	But you're from the PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u349	It's 120, they don't need you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u350	We'll let the plenary sit down a little bit. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u351	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u352	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u353	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u354	Is it a real question at the Bureau, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u355	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u356	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor for a genuine call to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u357	Mr President, this request is very short. I do not think it is necessary to ask the Bureau to redeploy the proposal of the Liberal Initiative on RASI — all Members know where to go to consult it — which refers to one of the new data, and it has been approved in this House, to introduce to RASI, for example, the number of attacks which police are on. That's one of the data.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u358	And what the cops do!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u359	There is one thing that is obvious to all people: no one has the monopoly of police defense in Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u360	I believe that the conditions for closing this point of our agenda are now being created. We therefore give the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u361	Mr. President and Mr. Members: It was really the most important thing to decide when the CFP discussed its proposals or not, especially when it had scheduled this debate. But I am glad that you spoke in last week's debate because it was Mr André Ventura himself who said that the worst ever budget for the Internal Administration was during the time when he was a PSD commissioner, while he was a PSD member, during the PSD / CDS government. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]] I believe it is consensual that there is a lack of effective, lack of professionals, and that there are professionals who are undervalued in the security forces and services. Even the Government acknowledges it, despite presenting a ratio from assumptions that are, in our view, little linked to reality, from the very outset because much of the security forces and services professionals are in administrative functions. In GNR, about 30 % of professionals will be in support tasks and in PSP, the percentage will not be very different either. And, therefore, the number of professionals effectively in police functions, in operational functions is very small. Not to mention the fact that, in the meantime, they accumulate other functions than restructuring in other security forces and services. In addition, you have to count that time passes and more professionals are going out. Therefore, the rests are not being able to supply the lack of professionals that the law of life defines.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u362	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u363	In the face of one of these situations, there are only two things to do. One is raising the police condition, giving better conditions, bringing more attractiveness to the profession, and the other is empowering the forces, because we have to enhance what already exists. It seems to us that there is a very important element, which is to study, know, involve structures and realize the idea of a national police force of a civil nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u364	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u365	With your tolerance, Mr. President. This has obvious benefits and gains, such as the increase in the number of effects available for street police, the reduction of administrative departments, the reduction by 40% of staff affected by the support area and the extinction of territorial overlaps and conflicts, a new model that is much more rational. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to add, with regard to the issue of the lifting of the police condition, because it is another of the issues that is at stake here today, that the status we propose allows the right to health — the right to health which will also be high by the participation of the professionals themselves in the management of their SADs — and allows them to homogenize, raising, for example, by improving working hours, access to reservations and pre-intention, housing, risk allowance, the right of association with the trade union, the use of public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u366	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u367	So the question here is: what is the question of approving these proposals from the CFP? In conclusion, the most direct question I make to the Socialist Party is: how can you say that there are no conditions for moving forward to a proposal of these, if the need for change of status is evident? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u368	Mrs. Member, I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u369	Will the government not also pretend that the extinction of the SEF was not in its Government Programme? Therefore, this is not a valid motivation to argue here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u370	The fourth point of our agenda is thus closed. We move on to the fifth point, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 252 / XIV / 2. a (António José Ladeira Soares Neto et al.) — Against the construction of the new Montijo airport and in favour of Beja airport, in conjunction with Resolution Projects Nos 109 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government develop a national airport plan subject to strategic environmental assessment, 114 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — By boosting passenger transport at Beja airport and 308 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Taking advantage of Beja airport in its various dimensions and potentialities. Let us therefore begin this debate and begin precisely with those Members. Members who have initiatives for discussion. We therefore give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think we all agree that the decision on a new airport infrastructure to be built in the region of Lisbon cannot be a back-up or a casuistic decision. We all agree, but the truth is, it has been. And, in addition to avulse and casuistic, delayed and endlessly seen. It has been because the country has not been able to equip itself with the appropriate instruments to then make the decisions that matter. For a long time, the Free have asked — like other parties, like many elements in civil society — that the decision on the new Lisbon airport not only be subject to an environmental impact assessment but also to a genuine strategic environmental assessment, which could take into account several alternatives and thus give a broader basis of arguments and facts for the decision. Finally, after much delay, the Government and the major opposition party agreed to make this strategic environmental assessment. But there's a problem. It is that a strategic environmental assessment is a central element of an existing plan, i.e. an airport plan or national programme setting out the framework with which a strategic environmental assessment can be made. The one that was decided between Mr. Prime Minister and the president of the major opposition party ends up being a coxa strategic environmental assessment, conditioned to some locations and without taking into account how before and after there is a new airport infrastructure in Lisbon, the airports we have on the continent and in autonomous regions can function in a coordinated manner to perform the missions and services for which the country needs them. In other words, do not invest in an airport axis strategy in Lisbon, when that axis is bad, dissipating the capacity we have in port, in Faro, in autonomous regions and also in Beja, which is the subject that the petition brings us and that, with a strategic environmental assessment and a national airport plan, like what we will have at the railway level, we will finally be able to do. We hope that other banks will follow this need to finally hold the debate with heads, trunks and members and to frame a decision which is already late, but which must be well done and in appropriate conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u372	We shall immediately speak to Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u373	Mr. President. Mrs. Members : I would like to greet the petitioners on which we agree on two points which require discussion in this Chamber, the first having to do with the dynamization of passenger transport at Beja airport. The history of Beja Airport is known. As a result of an adaptation, civil use, of Air Base 11. It is an airport with a very significant size: although it corresponded to a relatively modest investment of EUR 33 million, it resulted in an airport with an airport capacity equivalent to two terminals of Portela airport, and this is its main advantage. It was inaugurated in April 2011, with an inaugural flight to Cape Verde. In the first years of operation, he made connections between Beja and London and Beja and Germany. This passenger transport solution ended up having no continuity. It was then used for charter flights to the whales. By 2020, it had a total of about 2500 passengers moved, and therefore the passenger transport activity was decreasing, and today serves practically only for flights called premiums, with destination to the Alentejan coast or luxury units in Beja Town Hall. At the same time, ANA — Airports in Portugal has determined that other activities outside the airport are developed outside the transport of passengers, which relate to industrial activities, medium- and long-term parking and maintenance of aircraft on a smaller scale, in the private aviation and cargo segment. By itself, there is nothing wrong with this development or the development of this activity at Beja airport. The problem is that the promise of airport construction was not this. The promise of the construction of Beja airport is that the activity developed by passenger transport would bring more territorial cohesion, more development, more employment and better economy to the Beja district and to the Alentejo. ANA assumed that it directed and directed Beja airport to industrial activity, as it has been doing so far. And what we are asking is: what is the role of Beja airport in the national airport system and, above all, who defines it and what criteria? We want to know whether it is a private company — in this case, Vinci — to define the role of Beja airport or whether it is the country that defines what criteria is that Beja airport is inserted into the national airport structure. Are we talking about an airport to develop the region or are we talking about an airport just to make profits to the dealer? Are we talking about an Alentejo development engine or are we just talking about a short-term source of profit for ANA? It is logical that developing the airport of Beja for the transport of passengers and goods means electrifying the railway line, implies ending the IP8 ( main route No 8 ), implies a set of infrastructures that are not yet made. But that is precisely why we need to think about the development of the region in an articulated way. This is what the Left Block recommends to the Government: to integrate Beja International Airport into the national airport system and to develop it in the passenger transport aspect. Briefly, the second point we agree with the petitioners is that we are against Montijo airport, an environmental crime that is not a solution, but rather a trick, an authentic trick that has been done only for Vinci's business. We defend that a new airport solution should include the new airport in Lisbon and the use of the airport in Beja, in an articulation serving the country rather than the interests of Vinci. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u374	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, let me welcome the more than 10,000 petitioners who have come to defend in this House the airport of Beja, wanting to see it with permanent use for air traffic operations. The PCP has brought to this House several times measures in defense of Beja airport, because it is structural to the district, to the region and to the country. The airport of Beja is a decisive element in promoting territorial cohesion, with repercussions on the wealth and employment it generates and which, due to its characteristics and conditions — by its location in a strategic geographical position between Lisbon and the Algarve — in the present table, assumes strategic importance for the country and the region, and may be one of the important levers for its development. What, in fact, prevents the use of Beja airport is the total lack of political will for its use, which is not beyond the process which, meanwhile, resulted in the privatisation of ANA, which handed over to the French multinational Vinci the management of the airport network on the basis of the criteria of profit and not in the development of the country and territory. Accessibility is a key element in the consolidation of the airport. The quality of an airport and its influence go through its integration into the territory through a good road and rail transport system. It is therefore important to mobilize financial resources, taking advantage of the opportunity given by the Recovery and Resilience Plan, the new multiannual financial framework and the use of State budget funds. There are therefore all conditions for, from a public infrastructure programme, the dynamisation and diversification of the economic base, with Beja airport operating with a good network of accessibility, taking advantage of all existing potential and resources. The creation of a logistics platform next to the airport, as defined in the Beja Municipal Management Plan, as well as its connection to the rail and road network, will allow the installation of new economic activities and transform this important infrastructure located in Beja into a development pole. The improvement of the rail and road network is essential for the region and should be implemented as soon as possible. Mrs. Members, it is therefore essential to modernise and electrify the entire line of Alentejo, including the connection to Beja airport, but also to ensure the conclusion of the IP8, between Sines and Vila Verde de Ficalho, as a whole. The PCP adds that the development of Beja airport is not contradictory, first compatible with the phased construction of the new Lisbon airport in the Alcochete Shooting Camp and with the progressive dismantling of Portela airport, which makes it even more necessary to recover the public control of the management of national airports. in this sense, we also said that the Montijo option does not serve either the Country or the territories. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u376	For an intervention, Mr Filipe Melo has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Allow me - let the petitioners health because they bring us a really important issue for the country and which is also of high regional strategy. Let me tell you that, of course, the airport in Beja would bring to the huge valleys district, namely the growth of non-existent infrastructures, the improvement of others who are in a precarious situation and possibly a significant increase in tourism in the region, with all the implications that this would bring to the dynamism of that territory. We understand, and it is legitimate, this ambition of the people of Beja and, in this case, of the petitioners, as we also perceive the other districts that, of course, see in this opportunity to build the airport a possibility of local development.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u378	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u379	We understand that the fact that the airport is not yet in Beja, Alcochete, Montijo, or even Santarém, as we have said recently, is not due to a lack of popular will but to a complete inertia of this socialist government, which has promised, promised, promised and nothing fulfilled seven years ago. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We can't forget either, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have not been alone in this inertia for the past six years. They had the support of the extreme left, which now came forward with proposals, but which allowed them to drag, drag and drag a subject which was not of their own convenience either. But they are not alone in this fault: this airport issue has been for decades and the PSD cannot wash its hands either.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u380	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u381	The PSD also contributed to the drag, contributed to this undefined situation in relation to the airport. This mess is already coming from behind, but it has been aggravated with this socialist government. Otherwise, let's see the constant joke that's been the airport. The Prime Minister says there is no plan B, which is Montijo and none more, regardless of the pros and cons. A few days ago, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, who has this guardianship, came to say that, perhaps, that solution would be better than Montijo. And Mr. Prime Minister is coming to give you a brave draw of ears. As we play and continue to play at airports, it is the Portuguese who pay this bill, it is the Portuguese who are paying for strategic environmental assessments on top of each other, with losses of millions. It is the Portuguese who see their country being penalized because, while there is no definition and a construction of the new airport, tourism does not grow. On the contrary, it retreats because TAP has already cancelled hundreds of flights due to lack of airport capacity. And we are going to continue in this branch, putting forward a question that should have been settled for years, of which the country needs but the Socialist Party definitely has no will, no drag, no ability to move forward. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u382	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to thank the petitioners for bringing this petition to the House, which allows us to discuss, once again, the options not only of Montijo airport but also of Beja airport. This is a debate on political options, but political options that are clearly harmful to the country. I would say that this is more than a joke, because, in fact, what successive governments have done is, on the one hand, to close their eyes to the need for territorial cohesion and development — what Beja’s option would allow, ensuring the links and inclusion of Beja in a national strategy of airport solutions — but on the other hand, to take a bad political option by insisting on and persisting in options such as Montijo airport. Recently, we had the airport in Lisbon flooded, and I would say that better trailer was impossible, to advertise what will happen in the Montijo. Therefore, a successive and repeatedly insisting on this option is clearly a government that is closed to the needs of the people, whether from the point of view of local development or in the fight against the effects of climate change, with the rise of the average levels of water and also of extreme climate effects. But, moreover, it was by the hand of the NAP that this option was introduced in that which must be a strategic environmental assessment for the whole country and that must be done, instead of coming up with the narrative to pass over a decision of Parliament itself, which included all the options and not just a few, as has been the narrative often used. I'll finish by greeting the petitioners once more. It is essential that the narrative of territorial cohesion should not remain in the vain words, but that it should start to emerge from the role and policies pursued in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u384	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, from IL, has the floor for an intervention. [[Pause.]] Not being present, we move forward. For an intervention, Mr Nelson Brito of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From now on a hug to all petitioners, in the person of Antonio Neto and then from all others who followed him in this petition, as well as to the Free parties, Block Left and PCP for the draft resolutions. Faces and Dear Members, I am under-alentejan and I remember - well the time when the Coelho Pass Government wanted to make Beja airport a flag of the alleged expenditure of the socialist government. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u386	He said Steps Coelho, and I quote: « Beja airport is of no use, since there is no interest on the part of economic operators in diverting flights there that can give aid to the infrastructure. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD protests.]] It was a cottage at the expense of the sub-Alentejans, and I don't forget it. They used Beja to serve a policy strategy to discredit the previous government, then PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It is for these and other bad decisions that, in the region, for every young person under the age of 15 we today have two people over 65. The PSD at the time decided to sacrifice Beja, using the airport as a symbol of the misuse of public money. [[PSD protests.]] And I ask: how was it possible for us to do this? What a lack of good sense! [[Protests by PSD Member Antonio Cunha.]] And the saga of evil continues, repeatedly ignoring that the costs with the adaptation of this military infrastructure for civil purposes have made Beja airport the cheapest in the world. It is the same common sense that is lacking when trying to convince the Portuguese that it is the government itself that decides where the new airport will be located and that it will do its construction, when, in fact, who will pay and do this construction will be a private consortium. Well, the PS, unlike the PSD, does not give up Beja and Lower Alentejo. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Check it out!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u387	Today, in Beja, civil flights have already landed; some, due to their size or characteristics, can only land on that track, as many premium flights, as has already been said, looking for Beja for its comfort and centrality to South Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] New aircraft maintenance companies have already been set up in Beja, which have already created more than one hundred jobs, meaning qualified employment in a strategic sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u388	What about the highway? The road is a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u389	It is possible to expand the airport platform, which has its exhausted capacity to accommodate more business infrastructures, increasing its potential for transport, maintenance, logistics, storage and distribution operations. [[Protests by PSD Member Antonio Cunha.]] Beja can be an important cargo airport and a supplement to the airports of Lisbon and Faro, at passenger level, removing some pressure from these two airports and at the same time giving a positive input to the development of Lower Alentejo. With good sense, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be left out of politicism at the expense of the Bajo-Alentejans and with an absolutely vital issue for the country. Beja has land available and approved territorial management instruments that allow the expansion and enhancement of the airport, and has no autorcas against its expansion. Beja also has the proximity and tourist potential of Algarve, Lisbon and the region itself. Beja and Alentejo dream and live with the hope of valuing this airport. In good sense, we should convince partners, ANA and Vinci, responsible for managing Beja airport, to find a solution to create value for the region. [[PSD protests.]] As far as dialogue is concerned, let me praise the position of the City Council of Beja and its President, who have consistently and fairly sought to promote the balance points that enable this development vision integrated by the airport. With the improvement of road and rail accessibility, which are essential interventions to leverage the airport on mobility, Beja airport can be an important development axis at regional and national level, benefiting from the proximity of synergies with the Port of Sines, with Alqueva, with the Atlantic coast and the border with Spain, as well as centrality on the Lisbon-Algarve axis. Allow me to invoke the moment in which we live, when the process of decentralization is under way, putting new and complex challenges that cannot be carried out only from Lisbon. Whether at the level of decentralization or at the level of the programming of large public investments, this time is an opportunity to give a clear demonstration of a change in the attitude of the State towards decentralization. Betting in Beja via the airport, the necessary road and rail accessibility is a matter of intelligence. Decentralizing is intelligent, because it means betting on companies, institutions, higher education, entrepreneurship and science. It's smart, because it shows that we want to reverse the country's development model, which has been inclined for decades on the coast. Decentralization is intelligent, because it is necessary to deal with new demographic issues in order to transform problems into opportunities, whether for large urban centers or for low-density territories. Dear ladies and gentlemen, many of us are from precisely the sites of this country. Portugal is much more — I repeat: much more — than Lisbon. Let's have good sense, let's be smart! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u390	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for some silence, because not all speakers have the fiber of the sub-alentejans. [[Laughing.]] You now have the floor, for an intervention by the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, which is already present.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u391	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Nelson Brito, I would like to welcome the efusive speech on behalf of decentralization, which is clearly a cause we share, but Beja airport is not a good example of this. This is definitely not a good example. The airport in Beja is, on the contrary, a good example of "putting the wagon in front of the oxen" because, perhaps, that region needed much more before an airport. I needed many, many more things before the airport, things that could possibly make the airport necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u392	The airport is in Beja!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u393	Unfortunately, we have a problem in Portugal. Before we make a political decision, we have to have all scientific and technical information to make that decision, but what happens in Portugal — and the airport is one of the extremes we have — is that technical and scientific information is not there, there is no way forward for political discussion. We have heard of many studies of environmental impact, of economic impact, but, to date, I have not yet seen a single study that presents us, side by side,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u394	It was done in 2008 by LNEC (National Civil Engineering Laboratory )!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u395	... the five or six airport solutions to Lisbon, which compare them one by one, and tell us, side by side, what the economic impact of these solutions, such as the tourist impact, what the environmental impact. Only by having this study can we move forward to what is a political discussion. Unfortunately, what happens is that we started a political discussion without having the arguments, without having the technical facts and making what should be a scientific and technical discussion a political discussion. Today, we will be defending Portela plus Beja, Montijo or Alcochete without having a single comparative study of these options is absolutely ridiculous. It's no way to make politics.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u396	Get to know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u397	This is not the defense of technocracy, it is the defense that, in order to make politics in a decent and true way, the first step is to have a set of technical studies. And that, until today, we don't. [[Talk!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u398	This isn't conversation! I know the PS doesn't like looking at the numbers, but we have to look at them. We have to have the numbers in front of us and only there is that we can make decisions, because otherwise we will spend the rest of our years evaluating these petitions, evaluating draft resolutions for which we do not have an answer. And we don't have an answer why? Because the first step, which is to have a comparative technical analysis, does not exist! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u399	Mrs. Joana Mortagua asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u400	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u401	Please speak to the Bureau, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u402	Mr President, I will not ask to distribute, so that we do not spend paper, but I would like to point out that the comparative strategic environmental assessment study is available in the LNEC repository. [[IL protests.]] Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto is not listening to me, but I would like to recommend the study available in the online LNEC repository, Strategic Environmental Assessment of the « Study for a comparative technical analysis of the alternatives to the location of the new Lisbon airport in the Ota area and in the area of the Alcochete Shooting Camp ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u403	Not all locations are there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u404	It is a study that gave rise to the Alcochete solution, which was then abandoned, when public investment was criminalized in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u405	They only distribute your literature!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u406	There is no economic analysis!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u407	It's just environmental! What about economic studies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u408	Mr Rui Cristina now has the floor to speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u409	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to make a previous point which causes me, I would say, some strangeness. Today, at the initiative of the popular will of more than 10 000 citizens, we discussed Portugal's airport capacity. But that's not why I'm weird. That is reason for greeting and I therefore leave my compliance, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, to the petitioners. Strangerness is another. Where's the airport minister? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Yes, in a debate of this size, of this importance, it makes it strange that the airport minister is not present. [[PS protests.]] So quickly to hurry, so quickly to order works in Portela, so quickly to decide by Montijo, so quickly to choose Alcochete and, after all: nicles, zero, « ball»! [[PSD applause.]] Minister Pedro Nuno Santos is, after all, ashamed to appear publicly to discuss one of the main issues of his protection. [[PS protests.]] I understand him well! After that public disauthorization, after that public appearance, I would also have. [[PS protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate does not start here. It is true that for more than 50 years Portugal has been discussing the need to have a new airport serving the region of Lisbon and the country, but it is no less true that, as in everything, in the last seven years, the country has stepped up. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u410	The Socialist Party and the Government of Dr. António Costa made the country lose seven years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u411	What about the conclusion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u412	Yes! They had all the conditions to do so, but they slashed the partners of the far-left coalition. It is therefore important that this first message be clear here. You can say what you want, you can say what you want, you can even have ministers who decide on the same day three airports and then "put the rape in the bag", but the point is only one: the Socialist Party has made the country lose seven years! Seven years, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u413	Mr President, I leave a second note: the PS did not have the ability to decide on its own and, if not the sense of state of the President of the Social Democratic Party,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u414	...we would still be deciding what to do with your incompetence and your incapacity. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It's the usual! The PS does not govern, the PS manages day-to-day and, when it has to decide structural transformations, it is not able to do. [[PS protests.]] Having arrived this day, 21 December 2022, there is a technical committee that has a deadline, a methodology defined and an objective : to provide the politicians with all the data to decide on the new location of the airport in the Lisbon region.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u415	In Beja!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u416	While this work takes place, we cannot ignore that there is already an infrastructure in Beja,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u417	... and the airport capacity offered by Beja airport should be taken advantage of. For the Democratic Social Party, the exploitation and dynamization of low-density territories are done by public policies. That is why the use of Beja airport is crucial, it is crucial to give a boost to that region. Investment has already been made and must be cost-effective. Of course, this is not done with demagogy to the PCP, like "make everything fast and at large". [[PCP protests.]] Don't! It is done with strategy, sustainability and respect for the generations to come. [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa.]] We have no great faith in the government being able to do. what Portugal needs is that the Government of the Socialist Party is up to its responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u418	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u419	Mr Filipe Melo, would you like to use the 3 seconds to which you are entitled? Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u420	Mr President, if you can have a little more of your tolerance, like the sole Party Representative, I will speak for another 3 minutes! [[PS protests.]] Just to tell the honourable Member... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u421	Mr. Filipe Melo, you, who has a good tone of voice, is from Braga and knows the popular aphorisms, have a little patience. [[Pause.]] Now that you have silence, please, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u422	I will be brief, Mr President, but I could not let it be clear what the Socialist Party Member said, there in the rostrum, by doing so much, but so much publicity to Beja and Beja airport, which defends so much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u423	You don't know where Beja is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u424	Mr. Deputy, be serious! Be serious with the Alentejo people and explain why you come here to defend both Beja airport when your parliamentary group rejected all proposals for re-qualification of roads, the creation of new motorways and new railways to serve the Beja district. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u425	Look at the time, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u426	Mr. Member, be serious, because whoever is at home is watching and you certainly know that you have refused all the proposals that would allow the airport to be in Beja. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u427	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u428	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Nelson Brito, there are two kinds of speeches that we, in Beja, are no longer wrong. One is that of those who say something in Lisbon, but arrive at Beja and say another.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u429	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u430	The other speech is that of those who say one thing and then do another.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u431	These are you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u432	Now, see what the butterfly is for you! How do you want Beja Airport to fly if you don't have the necessary infrastructure? Oh, my God! Without the conclusion of the IP8! Without the construction of the railway with connection to the Algarve, Évora and Europe! How do you want me to lift the flight keeping it in Vinci's hands? Oh, my God! Now say there, Mr Member, if you did not make that speech, but then in practice defend something else that is not to defend the airport of Beja! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u433	We are thus at the end of this item on our agenda. We have moved on to the vote on the Rules of Procedure — in practice, this is a vote. I call on the services to activate the system of attendance registration and to the ladies and gentlemen. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. I ask the services to report the result of the verification. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, so we can vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u434	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u435	Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u436	Mr President, to make an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u437	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u438	Mr President, it is just to say that we are going to vote on this initiative and the House would like to draw the attention of the Bureau in particular to the following point: the point that we are going to vote sickly on all the incapacity and irregularities which the law can attribute to voting on a procedure in this matter. Before the vote takes place, I would like to make it clear to the Bureau that what is indicated in the bill that we are going to vote is not correct because: first, there was no agreement with the municipalities — that is false; second, there were no statutory hearings, contrary to what is said here. Therefore, there is a disorder, a legislative mess and only the rush to approve things at the last hour before Christmas leads to this initiative being voted on today by us in this House. We recognize the importance of this vote from a political and material point of view. It will not be opposed to this vote, but we do not want to mention, for consideration and to make it clear that we are before a screaming, flagrant violation of legality when we start and finish this vote. As I say, we will not prevent this vote from happening, because it was the consensus that we gave, like all the parties, but we did not know, as I think none of the parties knew, that, at the moment we were voting, there would be a brutal, obvious and objective failure of legal requirements for voting to take place. We want to make this clear, both to the Bureau and to Parliament as a whole. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u439	Mr Filipe Melo asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u440	Mr President, just to inform the Bureau that I cannot register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u441	But I was here, I confirm!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u442	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. This is not the first and will certainly be the last legislative process to be dealt with urgently in this Parliament. There is an own article of the Rules of Procedure which the Government or other proposers can invoke, and there is also, in the parliamentary practice, with regimeal coverage, the possibility of the question being put at the Leaders' Conference and, having no objection from any parliamentary group, of correcting between us more expeditious deliberation processes. These procedures sometimes focus on the three stages of voting — generality, speciality and global end — at the same plenary session, sometimes the agreement of the respective committees is made by means of indexary votes in the committee or by myself authorizing the committee to meet, sometimes during the plenary session itself. At the request of the Government, we examined at the Conference of Leaders the urgent question posed in this bill and we all agreed that the subject matter and the benefit that would come to the country, in particular for the Setúbal peninsula, of the early approval of this bill justified our urgent use of it in its assessment and vote. The admission note—which is given to me whenever proposals or bills are presented and which, like the honourable Members, are presented to me. Parliamentary leaders know, I am still very scrupulously, that there was no obligation that the bill would not comply with. It was not necessary to hear the autonomous regions, it was the first time that the initiative was presented, there was no provision of the Rules of Procedure or of the Constitution that seemed to be violated, and therefore the proposal was admitted by myself and taken to the Conference of Leaders. The information I have is that the Government has consulted with the entities and the Assembly of the Republic has also applied for opinions from relevant associations. As regards the results of the consultations, I believe that, if it has not circulated them, the Government will circulate them and the opinions requested have not yet arrived. in these circumstances, I believe, once again, that the benefits that we have withdrawn from the approval of this bill, in particular the region I have mentioned, justify that we make an effort to see if we can complete the process by the end of this month. This is certain that, according to the Constitution and the law, there will be further moments when issues of formal constitutionality or material can be examined by those in law. I therefore hold the vote. I understand Mr Ventura's statement and I note that this statement proves that it maintains the consensus that was the basis for this process at the Conference of Leaders. I'm sorry about the time I took, but it was for all of us to keep the same information as I own. We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u443	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u444	Mr Luís Gomes also asked for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u445	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u446	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u447	Mr President, it is to be noted that the PSD will also present a statement of vote on this subject, and that we must not fail to point out the following, following what has been done: the PSD will of course not hinder access to very important funds for the Setubal peninsula, but it can also point out that the minimum formal statutory requirements for this process to be consistent have not reached the Commission or the Members who are part of it. We continue with doubts as to how one can move forward with a process of these without, for example, the municipalities of Vila de Rei and the Sertã have given consent to be transferred from the CIM of the Tejo medium to the CIM of Beira Baixa ; as well as we do not have any formal consent of any municipality of the Setúbal peninsula to integrate the CIM of the Setúbal peninsula. I could not fail to point out this aspect, this regimental clash that the Socialist Party and the Government have made with regard to this legislative initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u448	The honourable Member made the vote before the vote. I just wanted to say the following: as far as my responsibility is concerned, there is no rule of law that has been forgotten or violated. As I said, the process under way was agreed at the Conference of Leaders and, because it involved a change to the agenda, I follow the principle—that I continue and my predecessors have followed—that only allow it with the consensus of all parliamentary groups, which has happened. Last attempt: we shall proceed to the vote on the Bill No 42 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Legal Regime of Local Authorities by deepening the regime of metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PAN and the L and abstentions of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and of 6 PS (Eduardo Alves, Luís Capoulas Santos, Nelson Brito, Norberto Patinho, Pedro do Carmo and Ricardo Pinheiro).]] The bill was passed and dropped to 13. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u449	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u450	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u451	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on behalf of the honourable Members. Members of the PS Parliamentary Group elected by the electoral circles of the Alentejo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u452	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Pinto also asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u453	Mr President, it is to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u454	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Is there anyone else who wants to make statements of vote? [[Pause.]] If not, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the dossier. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the more patients we are now going to finish the work more quickly. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u455	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Planning of the Territory under the Counter-ordination Process No 1037/18, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies delivered an opinion to authorize the Member of the PS João Miguel Nicolau to give written testimony as a witness. It is necessary to vote, Mr President. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u456	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, but, as you already know, for me the voting time is particularly solemn and therefore anyone who wants to participate is accommodated. We shall then proceed to the vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are thus at the end of the agenda. Tomorrow, Thursday, we will have a plenary meeting at 3 p.m. and the first point is the joint assessment of Bill Nos 99 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Adopts specific provisions for the performance of forest police functions of the autonomous regions of the Azores and Madeira, 390 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By the approval of various faculties inherent in the activity provided by the flowering guards of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores and the harmonisation of their retirement arrangements, 395 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Scheme for the performance of forest police functions by workers in the autonomous regions'lifeguard career and 396 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the special regime applicable to the performance of forest police functions of flower-guard careers of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira and to the amendment to Decree-Law No 55 / 2006 of 15 March 2006. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u457	Let's sit down! It's not over yet, it's disrespectful! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-21.u458	In the second point we will have the joint assessment of Bill Nos 309 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to improve access to medical boards and expedite the issuance of multi-purpose medical certificate, 246 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recasts the criterion inherent in the assessment of disability of persons with disabilities, 385 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Set the date on which the multi-purpose disability certificate produces effects and the dates involved in the necessary hierarchical remedy of the disability assessment, and 392 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Agileisation in issue or renewal, extension of validity and freeness of multi-use certificates. At the third point we will proceed to the examination of Petition No 255 / XIV / 2. a ( Luís Filipe Ponche Rocha et al.) — Fire Prison Movement for Survival of Portuguese Pyrotechnia, together with Bill No. 388 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves a moratorium for the use of pyrotechnic articles and consequent replacement by silent artifacts, light games or similar, considering the negative impacts of traditional pyrotechnic articles on people's health, animal welfare and environment, and the Resolution Project No. 309 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Establishment of a line supporting the treasury of micro and small enterprises in the pyrotechnic sector. Finally, we shall have a regular vote. Good winter, which starts today, for everyone. The session is over. [[It was 19 hours and 9 minutes.]]
