ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have a working quorum, with all the parliamentary groups represented, so we can start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. The first item on the agenda is the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 99 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Adopts specific provisions for the performance of forest police functions of the autonomous regions of the Azores and Madeira, 390 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By the approval of various faculties inherent in the activity provided by the flowering guards of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores and the harmonisation of their retirement arrangements, 395 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Scheme for the performance of forest police functions by workers in the lifeguard career of autonomous regions and 396 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the special regime applicable to the performance of forest police functions of flower-guard careers of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira and to the amendment to Decree-Law No 55 / 2006 of 15 March 2006. To present the PSD bill, Mr. Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u2	H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members: There is a legal vacuum in the exercise of forest police functions in the lifeguard careers and a discriminatory situation with regard to the exercise of these functions, both in the Azores and Madeira, which should be resolved. In the continental territory, the National Forest Guard Corps was extinct and integrated into the Republican National Guard ( GNR ), but this did not happen in the autonomous regions. In addition, a new statute was published for the lifeguard career, and the same applies only to the effective in-service in the GNR. To the Florist Guards of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, diplomas are applied that do not take full advantage of all the decisive aspects of the lifeguard career. We refer to the use and carrying of weapons, the power of authority, the use of force, the right of access and the ability to conduct magazines, searches and seizures. The full exercise of functions by these professionals, if we want it effective and dignified, implies the power of authority and all these prerogatives. The lack of legislation in this area has repeatedly provided danger situations for these professionals resulting from the behaviour of the offenders, without the legal mechanisms of the forest guards and police officers to carry out their mission and to be able to exercise their burden and principles. It is our duty, it is the duty of the Assembly of the Republic, so we are next to these professionals, giving them stability in career and legitimacy in action, in the same way for everyone throughout the country. We want no more or less, we only want all these professionals to be treated fairly and fairly compared with those who perform the same functions in mainland Portugal. With regard to the retirement of the staff of the Florist careers of the autonomous regions, it is intended to safeguard the possibility of requesting a change to the situation of retirees under the exact same conditions as the Florist guards of the continent, i.e. not losing any rights or suffering any penalties in the calculation of their pension, provided that I have fulfilled the guarantee period of the general social security scheme. Again, here too, we want no more or less, only that the same rights are guaranteed to these professionals in their retirement, with guarantees identical to those of other professionals in the rest of the country. As you can see, we are not asking for anything extraordinary, unless the first design of a State is fulfilled: that the State is the same for all its territory and that a Portuguese, of this or any other profession and career, is not abolished just because it lives in an autonomous region. Today, we have the opportunity to further correct this injustice of pure discontinuity and social disappointment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u3	To present the draft law of the Arrival, Mr. Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Arrival today presents a bill that aims to regulate the police functions of the elements of the flowering bodies of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, amend the retirement rules and ensure that these professionals have the same instruments as they enjoy their fellow workers in continental territory. First of all, we want the elements of regional lifeguard bodies to have the power of authority, of use of force, of arrest, of use and of carrying weapons, as is the case with any police force. These are the old demands of the Florestal guards of the autonomous regions, not only because of the risk associated with their activity, but also because they need to be dignified in their functions. We refer specifically not only to what I have already said, but also to the right of access to public facilities and services, as well as to private companies and facilities, provided they are in service and to carry out supervisory, preventive, research or judicial co-help. The exercise of forest police functions will also enable these professionals, where they are present in the practice of an infringement, to determine a counter-ordination or seizure of live goods or beings and documents which have served or were intended to serve the practice of an illegal offence or where such goods or living beings pose a danger to health and safety or there is a serious risk of their use for the practice of a crime. All seizures are subject to validation by the judicial authority within a maximum of 72 hours, applying the corresponding regime of the Code of Criminal Procedure in everything that is not specifically provided for here. What we are now proposing is for the sake of the dignity of the careers of the professionals of the Florestal Guard of the autonomous regions, but also of their safety, authority and recognition, in order to harmonize the status of these professionals with that of the Florestal Guards of the continent. As regards the retirement scheme for workers integrated in their careers, there is also a disparity, the result of the same original sin, which resides in the fact that the Florist guards of the autonomous regions have not been integrated into the SEPNA (Natural and Environmental Protection Service). in this initiative, the arrival pays particular attention to the criteria of retirement of these professionals, ensuring, inter alia, that professionals of the lifeguard careers of the autonomous regions may require their retirement at 60 years of age, without any rights or without the application of penalties in the calculation of their pension and that the charges for retirement or old age pensions, between the date of commencement of the pension and the date on which the pensioner makes the normal age of access to the old age pension in force in the general social security scheme, are fully borne by the funds of the State budget. We feel that, with this initiative, justice is done to the men and women who are part of the careers involved, filling the existing gap. We are also proud to be one of the parties which in this House of the Republic has made more proposals for the autonomous regions, because we do not forget that the Azores and Madeira are also Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u5	To present the Socialist Party bill, Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u6	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The Florestal Guards perform criminal police functions, whose qualifications and skills are a greater value for the protection of the environment and kinetic, fish and forestry richness. In 2006, the National Forest Guard Corps was transferred from the Directorate-General for Forestry Resources to the National Republican Guard's Nature and Environment Protection Service, integrating this security force into the national civil protection structure. In 2015, a new career status was approved, taking into account the General Law on Public Works, increasing the respectability and public confidence that this activity should have, safeguarding its specificities, in order to improve the functioning of the organization and thus dignifying the career of guardians-flowers. However, this context did not alert the situation of all professionals employed, in particular those in the autonomous regions, in particular in view of the exercise of powers by the governing bodies themselves, arising from their respective political and administrative statutes. In the autonomous regions, the career exercise was regulated by regional diplomas, not ensuring relevant aspects such as detention, use and carrying of weapons, use of firearms, densification of authority powers, use of force, right of access to office or ability to conduct magazines, searches and seizures. That is, we are talking about matters that are within the sphere of reserved competence of the Republic, which are indispensable for the full exercise of the functions of forest police, especially in the face of danger situations and confrontation with non-compliant agents or which generate moments of potential tension in the framework of the control activity. It is therefore important to address this regulatory failure, as with respect to the performance of functions in the continental territory, while also ensuring equity in the retirement scheme by conditions of operation in a penosity context, to which the outermost regions are added. The regional governments and Parliaments, the Order of Advocates, the Higher Council of Magistracy, the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which, in general, took a favourable position and whose participations will certainly enrich the process of expertise that is envisaged. Thus, the meaning of the proposed initiatives will allow to address exactly the conditions of inequality in the exercise of the lifeguard activity in the autonomous regions. thus, it is proposed to confer on workers affected by these functions in the Azores and Madeira the same rights and prerogatives, in par with what happens with workers in the lifeguard career in the GNR, pursuing the fulfilment of the principle of equality throughout the national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u7	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before this intervention, on the special regime for Florist Guards, I would like to give a word to the many girls and women who in Afghanistan have no longer been able to attend higher education. Today 460 days have passed since they were unable to go to school, which has now also been extended to higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u9	He's running away from it! It can't be, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u10	Obviously, the NAP will not fail to present its initiative, but it could not fail to speak a word of solidarity to these women. With regard to Florestal Guards, which is what brings us here, this Parliament is discussing today a very specific problem of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. I am talking about the lack of regulation of the lifeguard career in the autonomous regions, which leads to issues relating to the exercise of powers of authority or to the role of forest police. We know that there are other issues related to the national lifeguard career that are still to be resolved, but, in this case in particular, there is inequality between the autonomous regions and the continent, which is not a minor issue, quite the contrary. It is that, in some cases, this puts the life of these Florestal guards at risk. A good example is the supervision of illegal hunting in autonomous regions, a function within the competences of Florist guards, but whose exercise involves great risks, since, due to lack of regulation, these professionals do not have the right to use and carry arms, or so little may proceed to the seizure of their own weapons or even to confront those who verify in the course of illegal activities. at the level of labour rights, we also have situations of inequality in which the Florist guards of the autonomous regions have less rights than the Florist guards of the continent, which are integrated within the scope of the SEPNA. We cannot continue to accept a country at two speeds, whose social and regional asymmetries persist, and where we have first and second officials, even more so when the less rights-bound Florestal guards are those who have to face the problems and difficulties peculiar to insularity. For this reason, in order to put an end to this situation and to the lack of regulation and justice, the NAP brings the debate to a legislative initiative which aims to create a special regime for the exercise of forest police functions in the Florestal Guards of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. This initiative gives greater security to the work of these professionals and guarantees equality of rights vis-à-vis professionals on the continent, integrated into SEPNA. We hope that, on the side of the other political forces, there will be a willingness to follow us up and, in the field of expertise, we will be able to mitigate and solve this problem once and for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u11	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this subject, the Liberal Initiative has a clear position and I would like to invite you to reflect on it. As we all know, Portugal has two constitutionally established autonomous regions, whose legislative competence and political autonomy must be respected by the continent. The autonomous regions are an expression and a good example of decentralization of political power, legislative power, but also of administrative power. In terms of administrative decentralization, it is important to remind the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently in a process of decentralization of competences which aims to decentralise central power and bring it closer to citizens, voters and taxpayers. Despite all these good principles and intentions, we find ourselves today in this plenary discussing matters that could be dealt with and discussed at regional level. Centralism is this, ladies and gentlemen. Members : it is having the Assembly of the Republic, it is having São Bento to regulate the careers of professionals in the autonomous regions. We therefore wonder if we should not be — as House of Democracy and as representatives of the people — thinking and reflecting on why this matter is being discussed in this House and not in its regional legislative assemblies. What degree of autonomy do we want to grant to these regions which are so-called autonomous? Should it not be as specific as this subject to be dealt with within the competence of the regional political power? The answer to these questions seems obvious to us and should leave this debate today, but this debate will only be proven the incapacity of the Socialist Party, which, over the past 25 years, has ruled the Azores for 24 years, and which, over the last almost three decades, has ruled our country. All this time, the Socialist Party has shown no interest in solving this problem and is now, very quickly and in due course, trying to resolve the matter. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I just wanted to say that if there is a problem with the regulation of this career, there is only one person who is obviously guilty, and that person is the Socialist Party. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u13	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have several proposals on the table that aim to ensure decisive aspects of the lifeguard career and that are essential to the performance of forest police functions in autonomous regions. This inevitably leads us to a discussion that gains relevance with the advance of the years and with the succession of problems affecting the forest, especially with regard to fires, but also with regard to the injustices that affect the Florestal Guards. In the background, we have here evidence of the error that was made with the extinction of the National Forest Guard Corps in 2006, decided, perhaps by the PS government of the height, without studies or participation of those concerned. It was a precipitation, sir. Members, and irresponsibility. The PCP claimed that the entire extinction process was immediately suspended and that the necessary dialogue with these professionals was opened to find the most appropriate solutions, taking into account the respect, recognition and dignity of the professionals of the National Forest Guard Corps. This did not happen and the result is in sight: a total disparity of situations and inequality of rights. We have a fragmented and dismantled career, with the following scenario: the Florestal Guards of the continent are integrated into the civil framework of the GNR, in the SEPNA, corresponding to a special career without application of the single pay table (TRU ) ; the Florestal Guards of the Azores are integrated into the Regional Directorate of Forest Resources; those of Madeira are integrated into the Institute of Forests and Conservation of Nature and, between them, with different remuneration regimes within the single pay table. We also have the guards of the Monsanto Forest Park that are integrated into the Municipal Police of Lisbon, as a career not reviewed and without application of the TRU. Mrs. Members, a criminal police — as has been recognised again — who makes police and forest control, hunting and fishing, investigating the causes of forest fires and who can restrict rights, freedoms and guarantees, cannot be subject to this multiplicity of regimes and careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u16	That is also why, as it has always defended the PCP, the Florist Guard Corps should be reconstituted, as it had already happened when the government ended up ignoring the PCP proposal, after the major fires of 2017, setting out the timetable for the reconstitution of the PCP. The fact is that the government has done nothing and the Florestal Guards are still fighting — and well! — to require the opening of a negotiating process on the approval of the specific remuneration table, career, the allocation of remuneration supplements, the definition of functional autonomy of the Forest Guard Corps, SEPNA, and better working conditions. The projects under discussion today go in the right direction, which is a regime itself and end with unacceptable and incomprehensible disparities between the autonomous regions and the continent, and cannot at any time mean the constitution of regional police — this must be well-sensed — but rather a step towards the objective of reconstitution of this much-needed National Forest Guard Corps. We understand, in fact, that all these projects are part of this objective. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u17	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that we will follow the various legislative initiatives that are on the table, for discussion, and that will be voted on from time to time. We will make this positive vote for two main reasons: one first, because it is almost Kafkian the process currently vetoed by the Florist Guards Corps, either in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, or in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, by unsolicited form — not to go further — as they were treated by the Central State. In fact, initially there was a national lifeguard career of the National Forest Guard Corps. Already in 2006 there was an amendment — which we can discuss, and I am going to do so in the second point — that, for those who took on the role of Florestal Guard on the continent, had an impact on the transition to the height of SEPNA. However, they seem to have forgotten the responsibility that stood before the lifeguard careers both in the Autonomous Region of the Azores and in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. This forgetfulness is critical because they are people who have dedicated their lives in the name of fundamental goods such as sustainability and safeguarding the environment: something that is important for the world as a whole, for the country as a whole, but especially for autonomous regions that have protected areas of strategic and so fundamental interest. That is why this deresponsibility which has existed on the part of the State can now, in part, be healed by these legislative initiatives and, therefore, we will follow them. The second reason I would like to mention is that these initiatives should add to the improvement of the National Forest Guard Corps career and its reconstitution. That should be the way. We should think about safeguarding environmental interests — which is what guarantees us, in part, the Florist Guards Corps — in a structured way, at national level, and not in a de-responsibility of the Government of the Republic to its obligations, because they exist. However, we know that this has not been the structural choice of the Government of the Socialist Party, which prefers, in some areas, to lay down responsibilities for the autonomous regions, for the associations of municipalities, in other matters, and for the municipalities themselves, in other matters. All of this is done on the basis of an idea that is contrary to the general propaganda of the government, which is to say: « We have a great deal of environmental concern, we are in the leadership of combating climate change and no one does like us in defending our environmental value ». However, we see that the government does exactly the opposite. It is a government that tries to take responsibility for its obligations. Therefore, it is important that these initiatives serve to take a 180° turn in the government's strategic choices with regard to careers related to safeguarding environmental interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u19	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President, and good afternoon to all. It seems that we are here discussing a matter of relative detail about the status of Florist guards in the autonomous regions when, in fact, we are discussing one of those typical mistakes in which simplification brings more confusion and in which the rationalization of costs ends up generating a much more difficult reality to manage. Then we're doing a uniformization that's just going after the damage. We should recognize that in 2006 we hurt the country, it hurt the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u21	It's Christmas!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u22	What was most precise in the 21st century was an autonomous, specialized and prepared Forest Guard Corps for the challenges of the new century and for climate change, which we already knew were coming there and which, both on the continent and in the autonomous regions, have additional challenges.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u23	It's Christmas!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u24	What we are doing here and what we support is trying at least to standardize something in the confusion created. What we should do, however, was truly restore a Forest Guard Corps...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u25	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u26	... under the protection of the Ministry of the Environment, having the necessary powers of authority, but for this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u27	It's always this! Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u28	I don't know if Mr. Filipe Melo means anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u29	Finish it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u30	Would you like to add something to the debate? [[CH protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here, in the Parliamentary Group of Arrival, our head table watch! [[PS Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u31	It's VAR(video assistant reference), it's VAR!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u32	Mr. Filipe Melo, I'll tell you something. My grandmother had a watch on the head table that was equal to you, but at least she was right in the hours and added something to the debate. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u33	The Bureau does not record any entries for intervention, so we will close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u34	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u35	After all, Mr Pedro Pinto is asking for the floor for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u36	Mr President, we have reached the end of this debate, because I know that, after my intervention, some member of the Socialist Party elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira will speak. I would like to say that during this week — the last working week of the year, before Christmas and before the new year of 2023 — six proposals were made on the autonomous regions, both the Azores and Madeira, and we did not have any intervention by any member of the Socialist Party elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u38	This means only that the Socialist Party has zero proposals for Madeira, has zero ideas for Madeira, and it will be curious to see how they will make an election campaign there. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We also had today the intervention of Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, the Liberal Initiative, who almost demanded the autonomy of the Azores and Madeira. But this is not the case, Madam Member: the Azores and Madeira are autonomous regions, but they are still Portugal, they are Portuguese like us here, and that is what we have to say and claim. [[Rice from IL.]] That is what we are proposing today, and it is very important for the autonomous regions. In conclusion, I would like to say to Mr Rui Tavares the following: since your grandmother had a watch, what we realized is that the grandson has not learned anything from her because she always exceeds intervention time in a lot, a lot. Thank you very much, Mr President, and a happy Christmas for all, because today, of course, I will no longer intervene. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u39	If you would add something to the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u40	For an intervention, I now give the floor to Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u41	I knew it! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin precisely by what I think is important following Mr Pedro Pinto's speech. I would like to say that with regard to the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the contribution of the Members elected by Madeira, it is clear that you do not know or know very little, because what I find very important and truly relevant are the results. in this sense, I invite Mr. Pedro Pinto to evaluate the results of the work of the Members elected by Madeira, who have generated dozens of solutions to issues affecting Maderians. And that's really important. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u43	Five palms! Not even those of Madeira beat their hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u44	But I would like to begin by saying that, during the discussion of the State budget - and I think it is important to say this here in the Assembly of the Republic - the Members elected by Madeira said in their region in the Autonomous Region of Madeira that this issue of Florestal Guards should and should be resolved. This equation, all of you. Members have spoken in this House, it is absolutely essential that this happens. At the time of the State budget, we said that it could not be settled in the State budget, there were no conditions for it to be resolved there. And we also said that the budgetary procedure would not be over, and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would present a diploma, precisely to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u45	Then vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u46	And here you are, ladies. Members, the Socialist Party has presented a diploma and the question will be resolved, because the Socialist Party wants to solve it. And this is what the Socialist Party distinguishes! [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u47	Are you going to approve?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u48	And this is what distinguishes the Members of the Socialist Party of Madeira, who when they commit themselves, when they say it is to solve, when they say it is not right, present and resolve.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u49	Trusted conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u50	This is the difference between the other Members who are here in this House. I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that it is truly essential and remarkable to observe what has been the course of this Socialist Party Government in resolving issues that were not resolved, in dealing with issues that were not resolved, even by the Socialist Party,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u51	Where's the proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u52	... to resolve urgent questions, because the conditions have changed. So it seems very obvious to me that the Madeirans who are hearing this debate today understand that not everything can be solved at the same time, not everything can be solved to kill horses, but the solutions are appearing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u53	Seven years! Seven years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u54	... the results are appearing and never as now—I repeat, never as now—there were so many resolved things that they were about to do in the Autonomous Region of Madeira as with this Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u55	Now, yes, to close the debate has the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time we were able to schedule this debate and create the conditions for solving another Madeira problem in the Assembly of the Republic. This is an excellent news for Madeira and about 70 Florestal guards in the region, who so well care for and preserve our forests and our Laurissilva Forest, World Heritage Site. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finished the last plenary this year in the best way, with the feeling of duty accomplished,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u58	...with excellent news and an excellent gift for our Florestal Guards. After a lot of work and a lot of dedication, we were able to return rights to these professionals and allow them to access the reform at the age of 60 without any penalties. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we were able to do justice and equate the specific characteristics of these professionals'activities with GNR's lifeguard career, recognizing an exception regime and access to reform six years before the general retirement regime of the Public Administration. We have managed to ensure important aspects for the proper and effective exercise of their functions as regards the use and carrying out of arms, the power of authority, the use of force, the right of access and the ability to conduct magazines, searches and seizures, which are essential to the performance of the same functions as staff in Madeira and the Azores. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, regardless of what has been said today and what has even happened in the votes, the Madeirans, in general, and the Florist guards, in particular, know well who has been, from the first hour, on their side,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u59	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u60	... you know well who never gave up and everything to solve another Madeira problem. They know who they can always count on, not only in this matter, but in all matters involving Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, unlike the Socialist Party, we do not say something in Madeira and do something else in Lisbon. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, unlike the Socialist Party, who had been here unfortunately yet to vote against Madeira,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u61	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u62	... to vote against the insularity allowance, to vote against the status of the student-athlete of the outermost regions, we are always, but always on the side of Madeira. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] Be calm, Mr. Carlos Pereira, because we are always on the right side and that side is Madeira. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u63	We thus conclude the first item on our agenda. We move on to the second, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 309 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to improve access to medical boards and expedite the issuance of multi-purpose medical certificate, 246 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recasts the criterion inherent in the assessment of disability of persons with disabilities, 385 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Set the date on which the multi-purpose disability certificate produces effects and the dates involved in the necessary hierarchical remedy of the disability assessment and 392 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Agileisation in issue or renewal, extension of validity and freeness of multi-use certificates. To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In June this year, some medical boards were calling who had submitted the application in 2020. They are more than two years of waiting to access a medical board, when the law says they have to be marked up to 60 days after filing. We are not talking about a case of two or three, and even if it were, the situation was already serious, because there is a flagrant violation of the law and the rights of these people. But unfortunately, we are talking about several hundred, if not thousands, cases in this country outside. Only during the year 2022, the Ombudsman received more than 260 complaints concerning late medical appointments, most of which were required during 2020. This situation has serious consequences for those who have a serious illness, for those who have suffered an accident, for those who are in a particularly weakened situation. All these cases are being denied rights under the law. All these cases require a medical joint to, for example, have access to a multi-use certificate, which is essential for such important things as having support in the purchase of an adapted car, benefits in the IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) or even in order to be able to access social benefits for inclusion. Without access to the medical board, none of this is possible. And the truth is that there are now thousands of people in Portugal who would have access to this and other support and who are not enjoying their rights, because the government does not want to know whether or not medical boards take place, if they take a long time or take a little longer. There are laws that are being violated, consecrated rights that are being denied and people in very vulnerable situations. to whom no answer is being given. And the question is simple and direct: why the Government and the Members. Members of the PS want this to be so? Why do they want to deny rights, want to prevent access to social benefits, support remains and others? Why do you prefer this state of affairs? Because it's an option. Two years ago, the Left Block brought up the debate a bill to make it all faster. For more than two years we have proposed that diseases and serious situations, which always represent an allocation of 60 % or more incapacity, should have an automatic issue of the multi-use certificate. From the diagnosis of the disease, the person had access to the attestation, being exempted from presenting himself to the medical board. We have been hearings on the subject and the honourable Members. Members, if you remember well, you know that the Directorate-General for Health has said that it is perfectly possible and that they have already worked on a stratification of clinical situations for this purpose. This proposal did not pass because the Socialist Party's vote, and the PSD's abstention, made it plummet. They preferred to keep people forever waiting, with their denied rights. But we don't. We want the services to function quickly, people to access medical boards within the legal deadlines and to enjoy their legitimate rights. We do not accept that if we wait two years to eventually have access to a multi-purpose certificate. We do not accept that someone with multiple sclerosis, cancer or other serious illness, when it will require a medical joint, listen, on the other hand, that the waiting list is very large and that it will have to wait two or two years or a half years. That is why we propose again that the multi-use attestation be issued automatically in case of diagnosis of pathology which generally confers an incapacity of 60 % or more; that, in other situations, depending on the clinical situation, the physical presence for the medical board may be dispensed and, lastly, that the validity of the multi-use attestates be extended to the realization of a new medical board, because people cannot be harmed by the delays of the services and by the inertia of the government. Today we can repair this injustice. Today we must do it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u65	To present the bill of arrival, Mr. Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I don't know if all the Members read the citizen's mail. I read and the topic of medical boards is recurring in the requests for help we receive. On June 13, this year, I received this complaint about the time limit of medical boards: « As you can verify, in the response from the medical board of Póvoa do varzim, that my father will have to wait for 28 months». This is only in a third-world country!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u68	Like this complaint, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have more than two dozen citizens' mails. Like this complaint, there are already almost 300 cases in the Ombudsman about the difficulties of access to the multi-use attestation, only between January and May this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u69	And they're gonna do what? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u70	The Portuguese Disability Association confirms that there is a worrying and abysmal delay in the conduct of medical boards, and they even say to be aware that only a few medical boards are now calling people who presented the request in 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u71	I've talked about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u72	More than two years of waiting for a medical board is a long time. This reality is very clear and shows, in a very transparent way, the state in which the Portuguese Republic is and, above all, what socialism is. Shows the right accounts of Antonio Costa, always adding taxes, and the degradation of public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u74	And this is what they want us to get used to. Socialism is always the systemic degradation of the living conditions of a people and the limitation of their freedom. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the law is crystal clear and says, in their words: 'The medical board assessment must be carried out within 60 days from the date of application' — lex, this is the law. But the reality experienced by Portuguese workers, who face a situation of illness or accident, is not this reality described in the law, but a very dramatic reality. At the time of their lives when they should be protected and cared for by the government, what they find is contempt and abandonment. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] In Portugal, the only concern that the Socialist State demonstrates towards the working class is to charge taxes for two reasons: the wrong and the right and for everything and for nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u76	at a time of distress and difficulty, Portuguese workers wait more than 730 days for a medical board, which, by law, should happen up to 60 days. What a shame, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! But the responsibility of this situation must also be borne by management partners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u78	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u79	... by approving all the PS Budgets, which only served to aggravate the situation of all Portuguese. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u80	It's you, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u81	Also because they have whitened reality with the pandemic problem, when we all know that this problem is very prior to the crisis caused by cowardly 19th. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, here we come to a confrontation with reality, the resolution of this problem is urgent. The Government should ask the Minister of Education how to act, since he himself was able to award 7500 medical boards to monitor teachers' casualties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u84	Unfortunately, the Minister of Education, in a pre-eminent and persecutiond attitude towards teachers, promised to solve the problem of lack of teachers with the award of 7500 medical boards, in a clear attack on teachers, accusing them of fraud.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u86	They can solve the problem of lack of teachers, but they cannot solve the problem of medical joints for disabled and sick people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But it is not just Mr Education Minister that the government should ask for help. The Government may also ask for help from the Left Block and the Liberal Initiative because for them, ending the waiting list and delays is easy because they can guarantee care within a maximum of 20 days if the patients ask for euthanasia in the SNS (National Health Service ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u87	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u88	Today, in this Parliament, the Government is asking the government to end the two-year delay in waiting for a medical board. Our bill reformulates the criterion inherent in the disability of people with disabilities. Our project aims to alleviate the delay in the responses of the medical boards, simplifying the procedures. We therefore propose that the simplified disability assessment regime be maintained which has been implemented exceptionally during the pandemic, and the same in the case of renewal of the certificate, so that a person must only undergo further examinations if, in fact, his or her situation is likely to have a different framework than he currently has. The lead of our proposal, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be an attack on workers and will demonstrate the ideological blindness of this majority. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u89	To present the draft law of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we must mobilize today is that citizens with a special vulnerability, to whom we promise, by law, certain rights and guarantees, do not have them because we do not assess their situation in time. For someone with an oncological disease, a two - year delay may mean help not to arrive on time. For someone who was born with a genetic deficiency, from the cognitive order, for example, delays of two or — as is my personal knowledge — three years, may mean, for parents who do not have their own resources, the loss of the time needed, in those crucial years, in which cognitive deficiencies can be mitigated and filled. It is an intolerable situation and it is added, in fact, a layer of totally absurd bureaucracy. For example, there are diseases of genetic origin that are known to be incurable and that do not even need medical joints, as it has already been remembered, just showing an examination of chromosomes, but regular medical joints are required to know if, in five years' time, a person can be cured of a genetic disease for which, at the moment, there is no cure. The Book has been committed to helping resolve this problem, as in fact several other parties represented in this House. Through the State Budget for 2022, we managed that more medical joints could be made available by the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Labour Solidarity and Social Security. In the State budget of 2023, we had a proposal, approved, to define what conditions they need even from a medical board and what conditions they do not need, thus saving work and cleaning up waiting lists. We now demonstrate our commitment through this proposal, with the creation of a better system for the citizens, which does not penalize them for delays, determining that the attestation takes effect on the date of delivery of the application for the board, with the guarantee that, since the state of health is aggravated, the degree of disability is updated on the date of the requirement for the board and setting deadlines for appeal, which are omitted by law. Let us hope that there is a mobilization of this House and that it represents the sense of injustice that everyone out there feels when he knows about these situations, which are not corrected as they should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u91	To present the PCP bill, Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents a draft law which aims to create conditions for speeding up the issue, renewal and extension of the validity of the multi-use certificate, considering also a very important aspect which is the freeness of the multi-use certificate. As it is from the knowledge of all, as it is known and admitted by many, rights and benefits are being denied to people with disabilities. Not because of their own responsibility, but because public services are not equipped with sufficient professionals to meet the requirements laid down to them. It is not enough for these Portuguese to have access to this attestation, as difficulties are created, leading many of them to have waiting times longer than two years. But I would like to recall the benefits and rights to which these people can access: special IRS scheme; exemption from payment of the single traffic tax; exemption from vehicle and VAT tax (additional value tax); parking card for persons with disabilities and conditional mobility; credit for purchase and construction of homes; exemption from the payment of moderate rates; participation of medicines and access to non-emergency transport of patients; priority in public service; access to the special quota and scholarships in higher education; discounts in telecommunications; discounts in public transport; limitations on increasing household income. The multi-use certificate also allows access to social benefits such as the bonus of the family allowance or special education allowance. There are, however, other support that are also very relevant, such as social provision for inclusion and allocation of the status of the informal caregiver, having this as a necessary condition the verification of the condition of the person caring for the situation of dependence. Mrs. Members, the CFP identifies that measures are necessary to allow early access, which can lead to benefits and rights, which contribute to the integration and inclusion of the person with disabilities, are effective. We also bring here measures aimed at attacking the financial cost with access to this multi-use attestation. in this sense, we bring a project that determines and seeks the assignment of this certificate through the medical board that is mandatory scheduled and carried out within a maximum of 60 days. As regards the degree of disability assessed, when this degree is not susceptible to variation, i.e. when the disability is irreversible, the multi-use disability attestation is automatically renewed, without the need for a new medical joint assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u94	We intend that the issue of the multi-purpose disability certificate be free of charge, that the multi-purpose disability medical certificates, whose validity period has ended on 31 December this year, without being marked new medical board for renewal, shall have the validity automatically extended for a period of one year. And, because applicants cannot be held responsible and charged the lack of the multi-use certificate, for the purposes of social, economic and tax benefits, the validity of the medical certificates of multi-use disability issued is also extended, provided that it is accompanied by the evidence of the medical board's requirement for disability assessment and, where applicable, a medical Board of Appeal for the corresponding re-evaluation. Mrs. Members, there are clearly difficulties, obstacles and injustice that are placed in front of the person with disabilities. We have the opportunity today to be able to correct these impediments. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u95	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gabriela Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The four bills here under review, the Bloc, the Arrival, the Free and the PCP, generally aim to speed up access to the medical certificate of multi-use disability in view of the increasing increases in access times to medical boards, those times that affect fundamental rights — economic, fiscal and social — of these people, already weakened. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u97	Since 2020 legislative initiatives have been presented and voted on in Parliament on the conditions for access to the multi-purpose disability certificate. The PSD, already in the previous legislature, presented a legislative initiative in this area recommending to the Government the simplification of the legal regime for issuing multi-purpose medical certificates and the adoption of urgent measures to speed up their issuance and revalidation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u99	This draft resolution of the PSD was approved as well as other legislative initiatives related to the subject under consideration. Despite these approvals and the Government have stated, more than a year ago, to have a draft law decree in the legislative circuit, the fact is that users diagnosed with incapacitating diseases continue to have to wait for long and painful months, or even years, by a medical board. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u100	The PSD monitors the concerns expressed in these initiatives, without prejudice to changes in improvement in the field of expertise. But the approval of them depends on the Socialist Party, which has never been sensitive to this matter, because, as a rule, it did not vote favourably. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u101	The speech of the Government and the PS are inconsequential in view of their performance. They appreciate the good functioning of public services, but in reality — the fruit of bad policies or wrong policies, which have nothing to do with the dedication of public servants — the Portuguese hope and despair when they need them. [[PSD applause.]] I want to believe that this is how they show coherence between what they announce and what they defend in practice for the disabled or disabled. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u102	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation that brings us here today is absolutely unworthy. What we're talking about, sirs. Members, it is fragile people who, because of the inefficiencies of the State, for lack of solution, of the responsibility of the Government, add to their situation of fragility the perception that the State has abandoned them and that it is unable to give them what is theirs by law, by absolute inability to manage the services. The PS bench here has a moral obligation to take a position in relation to an absolutely unacceptable situation of bankruptcy of the State services for which it is solely responsible. We're talking about a situation that was dragged before the pandemic. It is absolutely unacceptable for fragile people to wait years for a medical board that depends on access to social and tax benefits. The pandemic, with the political options taken, had some influence on this, but it is necessary to say that the situation was already unacceptable. Therefore, we are in a situation of clear violation of the rights of the people involved, of clear violation of the applicable law, and for which there is a responsible, called António Costa and who is in power — I remember — almost eight years ago. The Liberal Initiative will not prevent the initiatives presented today from being evaluated and could be improved in the field of expertise. But it is important to tell the PS board that the sole responsibility is yours for the state to which the country has arrived, too, in this matter. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u104	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP will follow the proposals presented here, because indeed the waiting times for medical boards, which were already long, with the pandemic, were absolutely unsustainable. We see the 60 days stipulated in the law for the waiting period by a medical board become, in some cases, in two years, and wait two years for access to a multi-purpose medical certificate of disability is, in practice, hindering the exercise of a right that, well we know, has a direct and negative impact on the lives of users. The medical certificate of multi-use disability is a document that is required, including for the social inclusion benefit and the delay in its issue and renewal, has an impact on both health and social levels, in particular on access to the payment of this benefit. It is also said that the delays in payment of the social inclusion benefit were the reasons why the contacts with the Citizen Line were most justified in the year 2021. The complaints from the patients have also arrived at the Ombudsman's Office, which has already recommended urgent measures to regulate this situation, but despite the legislative promises, what we have found is that nothing has been done to change this situation, so on the side of the NAP we will follow the various initiatives brought here to debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u106	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Sofia Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today the process of access of citizens to medical boards and issues related to the issue of the medical certificate of multi-use disability. We have heard in this debate, of the most varied parties, the concerns about delays in the issue of medical certificates and in the conduct of medical boards. These concerns, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are also present in the Socialist Party. Yes, we know that there are delays, in addition to the deadlines that are set. We don't deny it and we don't devalue it. But if we want to have a serious, high debate on this matter, which is so important, we must present all the facts, we must give a real overview of reality, and not just the parts that fit the easy speech we want. Having said this, and on this issue, I cannot but remember the difficult times we have spent because of the pandemic, which naturally tested the SNS in the daily struggle for the lives of all of us. And to take this is not to whiteen the reality, Mr. Pedro Frazão, to take it is even to recognize the reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Despite all the difficulties and inconveniences, it was even the SNS who said "present" in the fight against the pandemic, it was the SNS who stood next to the Portuguese at an absolutely exceptional time in our collective lives and it was our health professionals, namely the public health teams, who deal with the procedures for issuing medical certificates, who were also on the front line in the fight against the pandemic. Aware, on the one hand, of the need to affect human resources in order to respond to the cowardly and sensitive, on the other hand, to the continuing need of the population to access medical certificates and medical boards, the Government has adopted mitigation measures for this problem. Of course, the government has begun to allow, as the honourable Members do. Members know that medical boards for the assessment of disability were formed and managed by the regional health administration. As a result of this decision taken in 2020, so far Mr. Members, 136 medical boards for disability assessment, involving more than 300 doctors. In addition, a transitional regime for the issue of multi-purpose medical certificates of disability for cancer patients was implemented, based on two fundamental aspects: first, that of the adoption of a special procedure for the issue of medical certificates for cancer patients, newly diagnosed, with the allocation of a minimum degree of disability of 60 %, within five years after the diagnosis; and second, tells us that the medical certificate is the responsibility of the hospital in which the diagnosis is made. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the pandemic does not in its entirety explain the problem that is being discussed here, but I am absolutely convinced that everyone admits that it has greatly contributed to its worsening.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u108	The problem is before!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u109	The arguments count, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the facts are even more important. The facts also show that the Government has been adopting measures to combat delays in the appointment of medical boards, in particular by providing greater flexibility in the establishment of medical boards, which may be formed by medical specialists and not only by health authorities; by regulating the transitional regime for cancer patients, which provides for the simplified issuance of medical certificates; by hiring retired doctors to ensure the establishment of a larger number of medical boards; by agileization of procedures, not only allowing for the issuance of computer certificates, but also for the patient's presence observation disclaimer for a set of pathologies identified; and also, and no less important, the extension of the validity of the certificates which expired in the years 2021 and 2022 until 31 December 2023, which had already been extended the certificates which expired in 2019 and 2020 until 31 December 2022. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end with a word of responsibility in the commitment made by the Socialist Party to resolve, as quickly as possible, the delays that still exist in the scheduling of medical boards and in the issuance of certificates. We know that the measures implemented so far by the Government are an important step towards ensuring access to citizens' rights resulting from the assessment of disability, but we also follow with the ambition that this path leads to a comprehensive review of the disability assessment regime provided for in the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u110	You have a request for clarification. Mr Rui Rocha, from the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to put it down.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u111	Mr President, Mrs Sofia Andrade, given that you have 14 seconds to answer, I will ask you a very simple and very direct question that is whether, with all this good intention that you have just revealed about this problem, you have an average number of delays to arrive at the end of 2023. We are here saying that it takes years to have the medical boards performed and the multi-use attestations delivered to the people they need. So what I was asking you is what your bank commitment is to expect will have to happen at the end of 2023, with this plan you presented here and with these good intentions you have revealed here. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u112	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Sofia Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the question that has raised me. Mr President, let me tell you that this is not just good intentions. These are really actions. Let me also say to the honourable Member that, if you remember the debate on the State budget for 2023, we have adopted a proposal for the Free that I am reading, « aims to make the system more efficient ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u114	Free? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u115	This proposal consists of the creation of a working group to... [[Ah, a working group!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u116	They don't like the job, they don't like the group!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u117	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that, for some Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it's boring to work, but that's something we have to do. [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u118	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u119	So, what we're proposing, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is indeed a serious and rigorous work to make a comprehensive review of the disability assessment regime that is planned and that will greatly complement the work that has been done by the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u120	What's the deadline? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u121	Sir, the deadline is 2023! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u122	Madam Member, I would ask you to avoid expressions such as those used to characterize the working propensity of your colleagues. They're excessive expressions. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u123	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Helga Correia of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u124	Mr President, I would naturally like to congratulate Mr President and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u125	Mrs. Member, I'm very sorry, there's a lot of noise in the room.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u126	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u127	I ask this effort of all, even those who fight against noise, and who could do it a little more silently. Mrs. Helga Correia, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u128	Mr President, Mrs Sofia Andrade, they have indeed approved a proposal in the State budget which sought the creation of another working group. But let me tell you, a working group does not respond to people's problems at the moment on the ground and does not cease to be a working group. During the State budget, you could have approved a proposal from the Social Democratic Party that would resolve the situation of the people who require...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u129	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u130	Madam Member, I have listened very carefully to you, I have respected you and asked you to do the same with regard to my intervention. [[PSD applause.]] The Social Democratic Party submitted a proposal for people who require social inclusion benefit to be able to receive retroactively, because the State is failing, the State does not respond as quickly as possible to medical boards. But the Socialist Party decided to chumbar, with the compressor roll of the majority, the proposal of the Social Democratic Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u131	That is why you do not tell me, Mrs Commissioner, that you want to solve the problem of disabled people and people with disabilities, because you do not want to. If they wanted, they had approved the proposal of the Social Democratic Party and we would be effectively applying it on the ground from the moment the State Budget was approved. However, the Socialist Party did not want to. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very quickly, I would like to say that the Democratic Social Party accompanies these concerns from the parliamentary groups, but we could not finish this debate without remembering the Socialist Party and, in this case, Mr John Dias, who, in your proposal, manages...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u132	It's PCP, it's not PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u133	I would like to remind the CFP — I am sorry — that, in its proposal, it has, in my view, the discharge to say, and I quote, that when the PSD/CDS government imposed the payment of these certificates, the CFP has denounced the difficulties. Mr. João Dias, you are completely unattractive. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] I ask Mr. President to distribute Decree-Law No. 8 / 2011, because whoever proceeded to include the payment of the certificates was the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u135	...and, mind you, it was your...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u136	It wasn't, it was the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u137	It was the PS, yes sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u138	Yes, yes, sir! I will ask Mr. President to do the favor of distributing Decree-Law No. 8 / 2011, published when Mr. Eng.o José Socrates was Prime Minister, in which the Government included the cost and then the Social Democratic Party, with Decree-Law No. 106 / 2012, came to reduce the cost of those attested in the case of renewal, Mr. But let's ask to distribute this decree law, so there is no doubt, to be serious, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u139	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u140	I conclude, Mr. President. As I said, I will ask that the document be distributed, so that there is no doubt, in order to be serious and humble, in a debate that must call us all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u141	It was the PSD that imposed it! It's all the same sack flour, they're the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u142	So you guys supported the PS government and we're the same? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u143	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Czech Republic, has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u144	Mr. President and Mr. Members, indeed, Mrs Sofia Andrade and Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, the facts you need to know are many, but most importantly there are people in Portugal waiting 28 months for a medical board! This is unacceptable! [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] And if you're the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have the courage to approve our proposal today, that is no longer happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u146	It is not worth adopting empty proposals from working groups. That's empty. We already know that the Socialist Party's working groups are prolonged over time, they only serve to collect passwords of presence to those who are there and have no resolution! [[Congrats from the CH.]] And the gentlemen. Members of the Liberal Initiative and the Social Democratic Party are also very concerned about the situation, but to bring proposals for this debate, zero, ball—they are still not working! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u147	But quickly...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u148	Faster? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u149	...I asked us to refrain from making considerations about the propensity of one's work and another's, the sooner these considerations were made. To close this debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time, the Left Block has scheduled this debate. There are a number of initiatives that have been associated with it—they do not go as far as the Left Block initiative—to which we will give green light so that they can move on to the specialty. But there is, at the moment when we have an absolute majority, a reality that is indisputable: the Socialist Party has the power to make proposals viable or not. I would like, before we arrive at the time of the vote, to remind you of the following: Members of the Socialist Party on the responsibility of their votes: that regime, which Mrs Sofia Andrade here referred to as very positive, which allows some cancer patients to automatically have access to the multi-use attestation and to the recognition of their incapacity had the vote against the Socialist Party. I shall repeat: what the honourable Member has boasted of being, at this moment, different in the lives of some people, had a vote against the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u151	You haven't heard yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u152	So remember this reality in a few minutes when we vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u153	I remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u154	What is proposed, especially in the proposal of the Left Block, is what the Directorate-General of Health has already said he had studied and was available to implement, what already the shared services of the Ministry of Health were also available to implement and what the previous Government, also the Government of the Socialist Party, by the voice of Mr. Secretary of State, said he was in a legislative circuit. Now let's see if this legislative circuit is not a short circle in people's rights. That's the responsibility on the table. Otherwise, it is unacceptable to say that there is a right under the law that obliges the State to give 60 days as a maximum time limit to respond to requests from medical boards and that the State is taking more than two years to respond. It's unacceptable! To believe that everything goes there, as it is currently, with one remedy or another, with working groups, in fact, is to turn the backs of those who have so many difficulties and who see, therefore, in the Government of the Socialist Party, that he does not want to change things, an enemy that prevents him from solving his problems. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded point 2 of our agenda and we are moving to the last point, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 255 / XIV / 2. a ( Filipe Ponche Rocha et al.) — Fire Preso- Movement supporting the survival of Portuguese pyrotechnics, together with the Bill No. 388 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves a moratorium on the use of pyrotechnic articles and consequent replacement by silent artifacts, light games or similar, considering the negative impacts of traditional pyrotechnic articles on people's health, animal welfare and environment, in general, and with the Resolution Project No 309 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Establishment of a line of support for the treasury of micro and small companies in the pyrotechnic sector. Mrs Inês Sousa Real, of the NAP, is registered to speak. I ask everyone to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners and thanking them for bringing this issue up. As we know, at this time of the parties where fireworks, as a rule, will tear the heavens—especially on the night of the end— it is important to be aware of the problems that exist with the use of traditional fireworks and open the debate to what should be a way for their conversion, thus inherently ensuring support for this activity. Pyrotechnic shows are usually above the levels of pain and sound threshold indicated by the World Health Organization, especially disturbing children with autism, elderly or even patients. There are studies that explain the panic that this causes in these children, with counseling parents and caregivers about how best to deal with the situation. This calls on us to reflect on this activity and on how to support the conversion of it. Besides people, we cannot forget that domestic and wild animals, particularly birds, are also affected by fireworks. Its more accurate senses and the fact that they are always surprised by the fires cause enormous stress that can result, in the particular case of pets, in escapes, serious or even fatal injuries. Finally, in addition to affecting people and animals, they still cause various environmental problems, such as noise pollution, the risk of fire and the release of dangerous toxic substances that affect air quality and consequently public health. For this reason, the NAP presents an initiative to promote a transition, which we consider necessary, from the use of traditional fireworks to more sustainable forms, with due support to the sector for this conversion, not to end the festivities, but only to make them more sustainable, in the name of human, animal and environmental health.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u157	To present the Resolution Project No. 309 / XV / 1. Mr Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u158	Mr. President and Mr. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners of the Movement to support the survival of Portuguese pyrotechnics, called Fire Prison.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u160	This sector is being severely penalized by ministerial offices, extended with new orders that prevent these companies from working. These are companies that are already having difficulty in their daily lives in working, in order to maintain jobs and honour their commitments, with requests for authorization from police forces, firefighters, municipal chambers — authorizations for everything and something else in order for them to exercise their right to work. Clearly, we understand that there are risks inherent in this practice. But we also know that when there is careful use and when the standards of its use are respected, the danger of fire is very small and, according to some technicians and specialists, almost null. Fire, Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is part of Portuguese culture. It is a Portuguese tradition that we want to preserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u162	In view of all these considerations, the Commission concluded that, by providing support to several small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ), support for this sector should be strengthened and increased. These companies found themselves deprived of working during the fires, they found themselves deprived of working because of the outbreak of the coward-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u163	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u164	All of this has resulted in many and serious financial losses to these companies. The Government has created a line of support for SMEs with the allocation of EUR 100 million. In this House, the Commission considers, defends and submits a proposal to ensure that these companies are properly compensated and covered by this government measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u166	instead, the NAP presents a bill that aims to end traditions and national cultures. [[NAP protests.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real wants the traditional fire to end and wants to replace it with lights. Mrs. Deputy, flashing lights are for the Christmas pines we have in our houses. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u167	Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the 10 667 petitioners of the initiative — Fire Prison, Movement of support for the survival of Portuguese pyrotechnics — their entrepreneurs and workers, the artists of the magic of the lights, some whose accident took them to life. The fascination with Portuguese pyrotechnic art is millennial. It is rooted in Portuguese culture, it is appreciated and recognized worldwide, being a reference by tradition, creativity, innovation and adaptation to environmental and public health requirements. However, and as some people want to believe, fireworks cannot be associated with the consequences of their misuse and uncivic behaviors, to the revelation of the law. In addition, these behaviors are condemned by the above movement which, in the defence of traditional pyrotechnics, « defends the performances of pyrotechnics, in controlled and licensed means», safeguarding the safety of professionals and populations, even in fires, as attests to the team of Prof. Xavier Viegas, of the FCT ( Faculty of Science and Technology) of the University of Coimbra. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft law of the NAP, aiming at the extinction of traditional pyrotechnics from 1 January 2025, presents a series of scientific foundations and studies to support its proposal, which raise many doubts. It uses so-called'scientific' studies that analyse the impact of noise on autistic children and extrapolate the findings of this sample to children and adults. It uses studies that relate the launch of noisy fires in Amsterdam, between Christmas and the New Year, and the occurrence of more deaths, with a simple positive statistical correlation. Mrs. Inês de Sousa Real, an identical study could be conducted in Amsterdam to analyze the frequency of the use of fireworks and a greater visit to the RedLight area of that city. Surely the correlation would be positive and would lead to exactly the same conclusion. [[PSD applause.]] Chemical composition, particles and fireworks have an impact on the environment. Yes, but marginally and only in places where daily fires are fired, such as in large amusement parks in America and Europe or in cities already marked by great air pollution, such as New Delhi. As regards noise, the use of softer petards, the pyrotechnic initiative, which is sensitive to the impact on animals and people, has provided more performances adapted to the requirements of the present, people and animals. Finally, the NAP bill is also, in part, the surreal domain, by the proposed solution for traditional pyrotechnics — new pyrotechnics would begin to use silent artifacts and light games, lasers or similar. But the same proposal of the NAP that extinguishs traditional pyrotechnics, activity regulated by Decree-Law No 135/2015, maintains the permission of the free sale of pyrotechnic devices that can be used without any control — a total password.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u170	Anyway! The PAN doesn't like it, it forbids it! The PAN doesn't appreciate it. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight two aspects relevant to the PSD Parliamentary Group. First, the PSD would hardly drag on a legislative initiative defending exactly the opposite of the petition that gave rise to the agenda. Secondly, the PSD uses to reaffirm that threatening traditional pyrotechnics, as the NAP intends, is also to question the work and dedication of thousands of men and women of the holiday committees of our villages, towns and cities, whose pyrotechnic shows usually close the majestic festivals, many of them classified as tourist interest. [[PSD applause.]] For example, I quote: the Festivals of Mrs. D'Agonia, in Viana do Castelo ; the Fairs New, in Ponte de Lima ; the Saint John, in Porto and in Gaia ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u171	What about Braga? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u172	... the Sebastianas, in Freamunde ; Mrs. des Remédios, in Lamego ; the Sanjoaninas, on the third island ; and the End of Year in Madeira and in the Algarve. [[PSD applause.]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, wishing all a holy Christmas and a prosperous New Year, illuminated by the traditional fireworks. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u173	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. In order to make the request for clarification, Mr Filipe Melo of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u174	Mr President, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, I appreciated your statement. The honourable Member has said many of the things we also defend and have defended the petitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u176	However, let me ask you two questions. First of all, this is such an important subject for the PSD, where are your proposals for this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u177	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u178	Secondly, how will the PSD vote on the only proposal in favour of this petition, which is the proposal coming from the Arrival? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u179	To reply, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the question raised by Mr de Herea and tell you that, firstly, the PSD has recently presented, at the state budget, a set of proposals that are very relevant to all industries in this country, one of which is about the generalized reduction of IRS and IRC (tax on the income of the public) which benefited exactly these and other companies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u181	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u182	Secondly, with regard to the vote, Mr Filipe Melo, it is only to wait a few minutes and you will see how the PSD will vote. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u183	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, of course, the Fire Arrested Movement for the petition that is under discussion and which causes us to debate this issue. There are interventions that have extravagant the scope of the petition that is brought to us and the concern that is being expressed in this petition, so let me focus on the concern that the petitioners have presented to this House. We have here a good example of a sector that is the victim of disproportionate decisions of the State, of blind decisions that the State takes, being therefore another sector that becomes victim or target of the unpredictability that the decisions of the State are causing in numerous sectors and that this is an example. What is expected is that the State — and, above all, the governments — will take decisions based on facts. Just do a quick search over the Internet and try to find retrospectively when fireworks were the main causes of fires. They were neither nor are they, there are no data because this is not real, but these companies take quite disproportionate decisions, being completely prevented from carrying out their activity. This sector is also once again the victim of excessive state bureaucracy and legislation full of incongruence. That is why we are here today our commitment: we have been presenting in this House several bills with a view to simplifying various sectors of activity, and we will also present for this, so that many of the incongruences and bureaucracies that this sector is target, a priori and a posteriori. This is how we want to be in this House: with concrete solutions for concrete problems of the petitions that come to us here, and not to come to talk about utopias or more subsidies to add to those that already exist. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u185	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pompeu Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the 10 667 citizens who, having signed the petition of the Civil Movement Fire Prison, bring to this House a problem which, having a particular impact on the functioning of pyrotechnic companies operating in national territory, also has an expression in the way our parties and romaria implement their programmes and in the way many thousands of spectators may or may not have access to traditional fireworks. The petitioners are concerned that, in their understanding, Portuguese pyrotechnic survival is concerned when there is a correlation, which they consider to be unfair, with forest fires in rural areas and their activity. The Government and the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority, in the use of their powers and in respect of legislation, have decreed the cancellation of numerous pyrotechnic shows in critical moments of high risk of fire. These measures, which are based on the protection of persons and goods, have, at the same time, caused damage to companies in the sector, since most of the pyrotechnic shows take place during the summer months, when the risk occurs most.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u188	On this subject, a study by the University of Coimbra was submitted to the parliamentary committees that appreciate this subject, as it welcomes itself, because it is another work tool that will contribute to further analysis in this area. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u189	We will all agree that the safety of people, goods and places is something greater, which must deserve the first attention of whom laws and who governs, and then, yes, reconciliation should be made, as far as possible, with the normal functioning of economic activities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In turn, the NAP presents us here the Bill No. 388 / XV / 1. the, which aims to approve a moratorium for the use of pyrotechnic articles and consequent replacement by silent artifacts, light games or similar, considering the negative impacts of traditional pyrotechnic articles. in this sense, the NAP intends to prohibit the use of pyrotechnic articles from January 2025. Now, the Socialist Party, as a political force with expression throughout the country, has defended our cultural, material and immaterial heritage, that which has expression in the smallest and most recondite of our villages up to the largest of the urban centers. This cultural trait is very present and we must defend it at all costs. It is a feature of undeniable expression of our festivals and romances, from north to south and in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we look carefully at the inventory of Portuguese cultural heritage we find the pyrotechnic spectacle, not dissociating it in the way our community experiences and shares the feeling of party. The fireworks integrates the codification of the ways of organizing the different religious and pagan festivities that take place in our country. in this sense, we look at this bill that the NAP brings us as an excessive exercise, penalizing who, throughout history, chose this way of life and with it opened and opened our moments of collective celebration. We cannot therefore follow the NAP in the adoption of this bill, and we do so not because animal welfare does not concern us. The PS, in the context of a constitutional review, incorporated this theme into its proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u191	But more: the PS has, in its government action, taken forward policies that aim to protect animals and preserve the environment. in this context, the Socialist Party was, is and will continue to be a party that has the welfare and quality of animal life as one of its desires, not being, nor should it be, this matter is the exclusive of one party. Mr. President and Mr. Members, within the framework of the support, the Government is preparing a set of responses, articulated and cross-cutting. Supporting Tourism measure of the APOIAR programme, recently reinforced with an amount of EUR 70 million, covering the CAE ( Economic Activity Code ) 93294, where fireworks are included. We are aware of the difficulties involved in this issue. However, there must be an appropriate coexistence between the safety of citizens, the right to work, the right to party, cultural expression, in everything adjusted with the proper sense that living among people, animals and nature so recommends. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u192	Mr President, the Bureau is making a request for clarification from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. The honourable Member has no time to answer, so I ask Mr Filipe Melo whether he wants to use the right to 'propose' a request for clarification. Just pretend so well that it looks like... Please, Mr. Deputy. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u193	Mr President, it will be a rhetorical question. [[Laughing.]] Mr President, I sincerely appreciate your intervention because it is the Socialist Party that is the Socialist Party. In the presence of the petitioners knocks his hand on his chest, saying: «We defend you, we stand by your side»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u195	...but on their backs, it extends orders in which it prevents them from working!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u197	Therefore, Mr President, once again the Socialist Party's modusoperandi is proven. Be serious and explain to these men and women in the sector, because you, behind your back, prevent them from working. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u198	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We wanted to begin by welcoming the Prison Fire Movement and all the people who went to the Assembly of the Republic with this petition. at this moment, when we make the full appreciation of this petition on the survival of Portuguese pyrotechnics in order to be fair and true to these people who went to the Assembly, but also to the mandate and responsibilities that this House must assume, I think it would be right to make a brief, critical reflection — I would say self-critical — on the treatment that has been given and the response that has been and is being given by the Assembly of the Republic to these people who have addressed us, who have conveyed to us the serious problems they face — and who have not caused — and who demand from political power a concrete answer to these problems. These problems can be synthesized in a very simple way. The people who work in this sector want to work and they can't. And they cannot because the rules that have been applied have brought very strong restrictions to the performances of fireworks, especially at the time of the year when festivals, fairs and romaria give more life to the villages, towns and cities of our country. First it was the pandemic, then it was the drama of the fires and it was following that drama that the Government decided to apply the ban on pyrotechnic shows throughout the national territory during the reign of the alert state. What this petition comes to bring to the Assembly of the Republic is a question that has not yet been answered. Having been alert for serious risk of the occurrence of rural fires, for example in the Alentejo and Ribatejo, should the fireworks in the Douro River be cancelled by St. John? Or at Mrs. Agonia's parties in the Lima River in Viana do Castelo? The fundamental problem does not have to do with treasury issues, it does not. In addition, the SME treasury support fund has already been proposed by the CFP. The proposal was voted against by the PS and the IL and the abstention of the Arrival and PSD. The problem has to do with the adoption of fair, appropriate and substantiated measures to respect and value the richness of these cultural traditions, not jeopardizing the safety of populations and, from the very outset, the rural area. But this, which is the central issue, had no answer from this House, for the simple reason that there was no necessary discussion with the authorities, since the Ministry of Internal Administration did not even respond to the Assembly of the Republic in the proceedings of this petition. This petition was forwarded to the Parliamentary Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, and therefore I began by saying that this critical reflection on the response now given by the Assembly of the Republic would be fair. This is certainly an issue which cannot be given as settled and closed in this debate in plenary. It is said, in passing, that perhaps this is the first time, or the first time, that a legislative proposal is attached to the assessment of a petition in the sense precisely contrary to what the petition submits to Parliament. on the part of the CFP, we affirm the openness and commitment to this work, which must continue, because, in fact, the issues of justice, adequacy and common sense in the adoption of policies by the State must have a serious, effective and substantiated contribution. It is in this work that they can count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u200	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners. For the sector that is, because it is important for families that depend on the cultural importance of quality tourism in our country, with innovation, it is clear that we should help modernize this sector, boosting innovation and also mitigating the effects, negative impacts of pyrotechnics, when they exist and can be mitigated. All of this must be done with people and not against them. All this has to be done taking into account the reality of a sector in which it is very different the very large company that can win the competition to carry out the fires at Funchal at the end of the year, those that depend on the village fires and that many of them are no longer in business today. Therefore, it is essential to help this innovation, not through a small support for the treasury—because if we had it for this sector we should have it for all others and for small and medium-sized enterprises as a whole—but by valuing the sector for the cultural and tourist importance it has and, of course, never leaving the regulation aside, because anyone who looks at work accidents or other types of negative impacts cannot think that this should be an unregulated sector. I take advantage, since this is the last debate this year, to wish everyone Good Party and good 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u202	To speak on behalf of the Block on the Left — and to ask the Chamber for silence — Mrs. Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to congratulate the petitioners and, lastly speaking, I believe that I am the last to speak in this debate, perhaps there will be a repetition of interventions, but I think that we are the last parliamentary group to intervene, and I believe that we are already in time to be able to make a point of view. The petitioners intend that the rules applied to them, which are applied to pyrotechnic performances, to fireworks, and which prohibit the performance of pyrotechnic performances due to the danger of forest fire, cease to exist and therefore that pyrotechnic performances are excluded from these rules that associate fireworks with forest fires. This is what the petitioners want and the Left Block understands, as has already been said, that the discussion is a little more complex than this, because the studies on this matter are not clear enough. The tragedy of forest fires does not allow us to hesitate, even for a second, in relation to a risk that it may cause or aggravate a fire that has tragic consequences. Nor would we forgive ourselves for adopting too lax or fragile rules in protecting forest fires in relation to risk activities. That is why there are many activities that are banned or limited during the period of danger and risk of forest fire, causing damage and inconvenience to many people. This principle of caution in the name of combating forest fires cannot mean that an entire sector — its businesses, its workers — is condemned to poverty or to its disappearance. Therefore, we agree with the challenge, which was left here by Mr Bruno Dias, so that we can make a deeper reflection on the support that the sector deserves for its modernization, innovation and the balance that must exist in the rules between environmental protection, the protection of animals from the impact of noise caused by these shows, pollution and the risk of forest fires. This is so that we can find a balance in these rules, so that the sector does not disappear. This is a sector that is important for the country and for many festivities that occur in it and which, above all, must be supported in this transition and modernization, so that the rules can be made with the balance necessary for the environment, people, businesses and the economy to be protected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u204	For an intervention, Mr Filipe Melo of the Czech Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After all, the Left Block is not the last to intervene in this debate, but it is the last in terms of parliamentary groups. Mr. Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, let me take back the matter you have touched on, from the cross-border proposals for all companies in the State budget. Mr President, the State budget is already two months ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u206	Yeah, it's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u207	I understand that PSD stopped in time, but it doesn't... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] He understands that these companies need extraordinary support and therefore he has brought this proposal, waiting for your vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u208	What's the proposal? The proposal is zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u209	I could not finish this debate without returning the Good Party to Mr. Rui Tavares, telling you, Mr. Member, that you most seem like a cuckoo watch...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u210	Ó Mr. Member, Mr. Filipe Melo...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u211	... that, from hour to hour, give a little jump, give a kiss and get back into the cage. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u212	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. We're here talking about shows and it would be indispensable to see unhappy shows now. Mr Filipe Melo will excuse me, I do not have to defend anyone, but in fact there are things we must not say. With regard to the arguments exchanged in this debate, I wanted to make it clear two questions: on the one hand, it is not putting the head under the sand and bearing in mind that there is no problem associated with the sector that we solve it. This is a sector that calls on us to help innovation and modernisation to combat environmental problems. We cannot say, one day, that we are all friends of the environment and that we want to fight the climate crisis and then, the next day, literally going to blow up the planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u214	You don't have any more time! What are you talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u215	On the other hand, if there are problems in the sector—and we are not in the mere domain of personal taste—we must encourage and support him, otherwise we will be condemning him to his end, precisely because we do not create conversion mechanisms that safeguard the health of people and, in particular, of autistic children. at this point, contrary to what the PS spoke, this is not only a matter of animals, but also of children and the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u216	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u217	I really am concluding, Mr President. If we don't give this boost to the sector, then yes, we'll be condemning him. It was very easy getting here...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u219	...and say what they apparently wanted to hear. Solutions to conversion must be presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u220	We have solutions, that's the difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u221	The last Member appointed for an intervention is Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u222	Mr President, in this last intervention of the year 2022 of our bench, at least, and perhaps the plenary—so, only next year will we be back to these talks—I would like to take advantage of it to wish everyone, not only the 230 Members, but also the journalists, the staff of this House, the security forces and those who are in the galleries to attend the session, very good parties and also excellent year passes, with all the fireworks they want and deserve. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your congratulations and wishes. I was implicit in your intervention, however, I will make it clear that we do so under all the security conditions. [[Laughing.]] At the end of point three of our agenda, we now turn to point four of the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Let us begin by registering presences and therefore ask the services which open the quorum verification register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u224	Mr. President, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u225	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. It was the only case. I then ask the services to indicate the result of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u226	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, until I can see what the votes are worth in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u227	Mr President, you may ask the Bureau about the method of voting. That's what you want, and what is allowed?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u228	No, Mr. President. There is a set of reports indicating that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival made a complaint about the vote on a final draft adopted yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, and also about the vote that took place last week in the last voting period. in this regard, I would like to know whether it is factually true and whether Mr President has received any complaint for this purpose from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival and if I can confirm what the vote on the final drafting of the said Commission was.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u229	Mr President, I was probably informed in the same way as the press that the honourable Member would send me a complaint about the final text of the decree commonly known as the 'law of euthanasia'. When this complaint is submitted to me, you will have an order from me within 24 hours, complying with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u230	Mr President, I just wanted to give the clarification that was requested in an appeal to the Bureau. I would like to clarify the Left Block party that under the Rules of Procedure there are deadlines that allow parties to complain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u231	It's three days!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u232	The deadline is three days after the final drafting of the text of a law, and the Arrival identified aspects of that legislation which were not in conformity with the vote and therefore Mr President, at the time we are here, he did not have to have received this complaint because the Rules of Procedure allow him to deliver it in his own time and way. That is why we have made the announcement today that this complaint will be brought about and that this will probably lead to a further delay in the legislative process. However, if we wait 17 years, we can certainly wait a few more days to have a well-made law and not a law with nonsense. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u233	I draw attention to the fact that we are clearly coming out of our agenda. I assume that Mrs Isabel Moreira and then Mr Pedro Filipe Soares ask for the same word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u234	Mr President, I just wanted to say that we are, of course, strangely aware of the news, even before the President is informed of any claim that he arrives... [[CH protests.]] ...you want to do the final writing, which was approved unanimously and also by the Arrival itself...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u235	Shall we start the debate again? Oh, my God! Is there a new debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u236	...so that we will await Mr. President's decision on the claim that he has made... [[CH's laughs.]] ... about the text that came to pass. So let us wait for the outcome of this dilating maneuver, typical of those who are making parliamentary terrorism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u237	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u238	Mr President, my appeal was even about the validity of the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u239	And now what is it for?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u240	This is because Mr Pedro Pinto's voice — for his presence, for his consent — has voted in favour, I repeat, voted in favour of the final wording of which he now calls for.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u241	It's a lie, it's a lie! What voice? Oh, my God! You're a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u242	That you're upset that you've been unauthorized, I understand, but don't distort the facts. The arrival voted in favour, and that is why I put the question I asked.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u243	Liar! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u244	Having been present at the Commission meeting, having seen the arrival of voting in favour and now seeing the party making a complaint, we can only draw a conclusion: it is indeed a dilatory manoeuvre of those who do not take seriously not only the proceedings of the parliamentary process but also democracy itself, since it does not take seriously the votes it takes in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u245	You son of a bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u246	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for a new request from the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u247	Yes, Mr President, a new request to the Bureau. I just wanted to make a point: I regret that Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, at the end of many years in this Parliament, does not know what "Re-gi-to" means. It means that, regardless of approvals or no approvals, there is a deadline for legal complaint — see if you realize this, man! — I repeat, legal and non-political complaints! [[Cheers and laughs from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] Understand this once and for all, because I don't think it's hard. You need to be a little bit covered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u248	Mr President, these expressions are offensive. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u249	Is "man" offensive? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u250	Both verbal expressions and, above all, the body language you used. It is offensive and has no place in Parliament. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u251	Mr President, I think it is offensive to call 'parliamentary terrorism' to what makes a parliamentary bench. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u252	That's what's offensive. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's just, coming from who comes, doesn't offend us, it's a medal for us. Coming from whoever's coming, it's a medal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Don't offend us who wants to, don't offend us who wants to...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u253	Mr. Deputies, do you want to make an inquiry or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u254	It offends us who can, and it is not the case of Mrs. Isabel Moreira. By now, Mr President, I apologize, but we have been asked for clarification and we have been offended. So I just want to make the point that Mr Pedro Filipe Soares today, when he gets home, read a little, which I think he needs, since the legal complaint has nothing to do with the political complaint.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u255	They voted in favour! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u256	The political part was voted here, it was discussed, so we did. What we're going to discuss legally...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u257	They voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u258	... and to inform, as we believe it is our right, that the drafting of the law does not correspond to the vote of the House and the will that the House has expressed here. There are legal details that must be discussed at home and in their own form and not with a sense of vote. The votes are the same and that is what it was important to understand. It has the right to complain, it will complain and, my gentlemen, to get used to it, it is called democracy and we are here to defend it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u259	Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares asks for the floor for a new call to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u260	It is to ask you a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u261	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u262	at this time, it is necessary to clarify who assists in the work of Parliament. Having heard Mr. André Ventura, we note the following: The arrival voted politically in favour, but it is legally against. If that is the case, I conclude that it has changed its mind and is politically in favour of the decriminalisation of euthanasia. That is not the case, I believe, and therefore the absurdity remains in the words of Mr André Ventura. However, Mr President, I would like to ask you one question: does the Rules of Procedure, as the Rules of Procedure say, consider that the final wording, which was voted on yesterday in the Commission, as well as all final drafts, are improvements, improvements or legal accuracy that should not alter the political content of the diplomas?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u263	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u264	And, on this matter, if I am confirmed, it will be recorded that, on this legal point, the Arrival voted in favour and that, in fact, it is not ashamed, because it does not say so. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u265	Mr Ventura, you have the floor for the last time on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u266	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u267	Mr President, you will recognise that it was not us who raised this issue in the House. So we have the right to give this explanation. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, neither did your bench understand what you said now...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u268	Your bench is that you didn't understand anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u269	...because your bench doesn't even understand it, such is the confusion that goes on in your head.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u270	Go home!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u271	It's very simple to understand. I understand that this is not this area and that maybe you don't understand this very well, but there's a writing that's final. [[And you voted for it!]] [[And you voted for it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u272	This wording was voted politically in the plenary session. That vote in the plenary shall go to the Commission, so that the Commission shall draw up the final text. The complaint is not about the vote on this House, but about the final drafting of the text. [[They voted in favour!]] [[They voted in favour!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u273	Stop digging, it just burys more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u274	That's where that claim, which is not... [[PS and BE protests.]] Do you want to hear me or just talk? [[PS and BE protests and CH counterprotests.]] It is this wording, which is not about the political meaning of the diploma, but about the legal wording of that same diploma, which will be appreciated in the complaint. That's all, and it's not hard to understand. The absurd is with the most absurd party in this House. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u275	I shall then proceed to the clarifications requested by the party that asked me about the conduct of the work. The number one fact is that the decree on euthanasia was, to speak quickly, the subject of vote and approval in this House. In accordance with the procedures governing the legislative procedure, its final drafting was proposed by the departments and delivered to the respective parliamentary committee—to 1. the Commission — which yesterday adopted the final text with the unanimous vote of all the parties present, including the Party arriving.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u276	All right! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u277	Article 157 provides. that of the Rules of Procedure the possibility of any Member or Member, within three days of the publication of the decree - which happened last night because I received it and signed it - shall proceed with the complaint. A complaint must be submitted up to three days after publication. Because we have point tolerance, that deadline will end next Tuesday, and then I have a 24-hour deadline to accept the complaint or not. And I have to read the complaint, to see if there's any basis I'm running away from. From then on, I warn the House that my decision may be the subject of appeal to the plenary, and the next plenary is on January 4.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u278	Well, it's just reading the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u279	We all understand that there are several attempts to stop, by way, I would not say administratively, but through successive delaying procedures... [[CH protests.]] ... a deliberation of the Assembly of the Republic taken, as the deliberations of a democratic assembly are taken by the relevant majority. It is up to the President of the Assembly to ensure that the regulations and constitutional provisions are applied, and that is what I will do once again. I shall now proceed to the regulatory vote. Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u280	Mr President, I call on the House to protest in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u281	I don't know if the protests take place during the voting period, but do the favor, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u282	Mr President, I do not need even two minutes to say that I am very sorry — even — that the President, the representative of the House of Deputies, of all Members, before receiving a complaint, is saying that he is a dilatory record. [[You voted in favour!]] [[You voted in favour!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u283	I am very sorry that a President, who is elected and chosen by the Socialist Party's bench, before receiving a complaint, says that he is a dilatory file, when he has not yet received the complaint. That wasn't even the worst of the Soviet courts, nor the worst of the Soviet courts! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, I'm sorry, but we haven't submitted the complaint yet, and Mr. President says it's a dilatory file? Mr. President, do you know what arguments we're going to give? Do you know whether or not the law is in accordance with the vote here? [[They voted in favour!]] [[They voted in favour!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u284	Do you know what substantive and procedural content we're going to claim? of the place he has, as the representative of the whole House, tells us that it is a dilatory record? Mr President, I am sorry, and I regret that this is the last word that has been said before we close the House, but your attitude is a disgrace to this Parliament! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u285	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias also wants to make a protest? I'm the one who answers for me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u286	Mr President, it is an inquiry into the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u287	Then let me first respond to the protest, and then I will give you the word for the inquiry. Mr André Ventura, the essential quality in democratic political life is common sense. And it is clear that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival announced publicly that it was going to file a complaint on a text approved by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival in the Commission. And that's the only thing I need to record.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u288	Of course, it's obvious! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u289	I will proceed to the examination of the complaint and I will decide, but I repeat what I said: the Assembly of the Republic has decided in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. This debate must be carried out in a decree, which must be submitted to the President of the Republic for possible promulgation. My responsibility, as President of the Assembly of the Republic, is to ensure that the deliberations taken by the Assembly take its course, and that is what I will do. [[CH protests.]] Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, you have the floor for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u290	Mr President, it is a fact that we were gathered here, and that we now had a protest, when a matter was raised by the parliamentary bench of the Left Block, by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, on a complaint announced a few hours ago. A complaint that the party has not yet submitted and that it does not wish to deliver — that is to say — during this plenary session.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u291	We have three days!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u292	Because these Members who meet here today, Mr President, could, as a fuller, after their decision and after looking at the complaint submitted, vote today even if another entity, in this case a parliamentary group, intends to present.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u293	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u294	But are you the one who decides what we do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u295	I would therefore like to say that if the party wishes to file the complaint now, and if you have the understanding that it is possible to decide on it, the PS Parliamentary Group is available to vote for the possible appeal of its decision in this Chamber, in this Chamber, if the complaint has been submitted. [[That's what's missing!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u296	Now... [[CH protests and PS and BE counterprotests.]] But of course, as some of the Members say. Ladies and gentlemen here on my left, that was what was missing, because what you really want to do is do a dilating maneuver. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u297	We shall begin our voting period. The first project to be appreciated is Vote Project No. 215 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PS ) — regretting the death of Maria Manuel Viana. I ask Secretary Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u298	Mr. President, I read: « He died last December 12, at the age of 67, the writer and translator Maria Manuel Viana. Born in 1955, he graduated in Romanic Philology at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Coimbra, coming to embrace, along with the literary career, a course in secondary education for more than three decades, teaching in his Figueira da Foz natal, in Castelo Branco, a city that would adopt and where he would live much of his life, and in Lisbon. Maria Manuel Viana leaves a remarkable literary production, which passes through the novel, especially noteworthy The Passion of Ana B. ( 2002 ), Maria João's Double Life ( 2006 ), Ladies, Ases and Jackets ( 2007, with Ana Benavente ), The Summer of All Silences ( 2011 ), Theory of Limits ( 2014 ), The World Geography( 2015 ), Medo Grammar ( 2016 ), Patrícia Reis ) and more recently, by narrative prose, NAS night evidence( 2021 ). In 2022, it would be included in the anthology of twenty great tales of Portuguese writers, confirming its space among the main contemporary Portuguese writers. In the translation plan, he focused especially on works of relevance to the literature of the neighbouring country, with emphasis on his work in two national awards of criticism of Spain, The day of tomorrow, of Ignacio Martínez de Pisón, and The daughter of the East, of Clara Usón, and for the latest novels of Enrique Vila-Matas. In 2014, within the framework of 8. the edition of Lisbon & Estoril Film Festival, would translate, of the 2019 Nobel Prize in Literature, Peter Handke, the play The beautiful days of Aranjuez, which was the stage on that occasion. In addition to the brand left in translation and literary production, Maria Manuel Viana also devoted herself to public service throughout her life, militating for the causes and themes that were close to her and expensive. In the late 90s of the last century he served as a councilwoman in the City Hall of Castelo Branco, elected on the lists of the Socialist Party, where he assumed the hair of the culture. It also ensured the coordination of the Office for Equality and Against Violence against Women and Children in the municipality, also leading, in the same territories, the Educational Area Centre and the District Commission for the Protection of Children. The note issued, at the time of his death, by the Directorate-General for Book, Archives and Libraries well translates the feeling of loss to Portuguese culture and shows the legacy he transmits to future generations through his work: “Portuguese literature is poorer, but his books are there. ” Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Maria Manuel Viana, lamenting the loss that its departure represents for the cultural life of the country and presenting its deepest condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u299	Thank you, Secretary. We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the family and friends of Maria Manuel Viana here present and ask to all 1 minute silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will now move on to the Vote Project No. 216 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, PS, CH, PCP and L ) — Greetings by the election of Évora to European Capital of Culture in 2027. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I read: « Évora will be European Capital of Culture in 2027. This will be the fourth time that a Portuguese city receives this distinction, after Lisbon, in 1994, Porto, in 2001, and Guimarães, in 2012. The choice, made for the first time through competition, was announced last December 7 by a panel of international experts, in a process that revealed a great motivation of Portuguese cities to value the territory through culture. during this process, applications were submitted from twelve Portuguese cities, highlighting the quality of the proposals, in particular the remaining three finalists: Aveiro, Braga and Ponta Delgada. The successful candidacy of the city of Alentejan presented as a motto the concept of the “male”, which goes beyond the idea of a slower time. It is a way of being and being, so characteristic of this region, where the centrality conferred on people, particularly in their relationship with the community and nature, and which projects a vision of the development of human beings, culture and society where the cultural aspect is seen as an essential pillar of democracy and progress. Identifyed with the culture, natural and human wealth and heritage of Alentejo, affirming confidence in the future of this region, the program of “Evora 2027 ” is based on three main aspects: cultural heritage, intangibleity and biodiversity, highlighting some fundamental challenges that society shares as a collective, such as climate change or forced migration. This project represents a great bet on the wealth of the local cultural and creative sector, allowing to build bridges with other areas of society, with the rest of the country and with Europe. The candidature of Évora the European Capital of Culture was promoted by an executive committee, headed by the Municipal Chamber, constituted by the Regional Directorate of Culture of Alentejo, University of Évora, Intermunicipal Community of Central Alentejo, CCDR ( Commission for Coordination and Regional Development) of Alentejo, Tourism of Alentejo, Eugenio de Almeida Foundation and Regional Agency for the Promotion of Tourism of Alentejo. All are, of course, congratulations. The European Capital of Culture initiative aims to provide citizens of the various countries of Europe with the opportunity to get to know and get closer to their cultures, enjoy their history and common values and experience the feeling of belonging. To affirm today the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, justice, progress, democracy, equality and respect for human rights, including those of minorities, takes particular meaning. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the election of Évora as European Capital of Culture in 2027, which enlarges the Alentejo region as well as the whole country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u301	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[General applause.]] I welcome the presence, in the gallery, of Mr. President of the Municipal Chamber of Évora, Carlos Pinto Sá, to whom I now renew our congratulations. We will generally vote for Bill No 144 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments, Decree-Law No 80 / 2015 of 14 May 2015. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No 387 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Amends the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments in order to ensure processes for the development, modification or revision of the most democratic, participatory and environmentally friendly territorial programmes and plans of the population. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN and the L and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u302	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u303	All right, it's registered, Mr. Deputies. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 393 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 80 / 2015 of 14 May approving the revision of the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the CH.]] We then generally vote on draft resolution No. 276 / XV / 1. a ( IL ) — By suspension of extradition agreements with the People's Republic of China and Hong Kong, as recommended by the European Parliament. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PSD and the PCP and votes against the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 286 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent assessment of the implications of the National Security Act applicable in Hong Kong, adopted by the Standing Committee of the National People's Assembly of China on 30 June 2020, in the relevant agreements concluded between Portugal and Hong Kong, within the framework of asylum, migration, visas and residence policies and in the fundamental rights of the Portuguese community residing in that territory. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PSD and PCP and with votes in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN, L and PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] We generally vote for Law No 87 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — About the allocation of insularity allowance. [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PS Deputies Carlos Pereira, Francisco César, João Azevedo Castro, Marta Freitas, Miguel Iglesias and Sérgio Ávila.]] We now have the general vote on Bill No 350 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Eliminates inequalities in the allocation of additional fixation to staff of the Prison Guard Corps in functions in autonomous regions ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2014 of 9 January ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PS Deputies Carlos Pereira, Francisco César, João Azevedo Castro, Marta Freitas, Miguel Iglesias and Sérgio Ávila.]] Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u304	Mr President, it is to inform the House that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u305	All right, it's registered, Mr. Deputies. We will generally vote for Bill No. 391 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensures the insularity allowance for all public officials of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of CH and BE and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] The general vote on the Bill No 95 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — By valuing the ultraperipheral condition of the athlete student — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 55 / 2019, April 24. [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PS Francisco César, Marta Freitas and Miguel Iglesias.]] Mr. Francisco César informed the Bureau that Mr. PS Members who voted in favour of this last vote will present the relevant declaration of vote. Mr Tiago Brandão Rodrigues asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u306	Mr President, it is to inform that I and Mr. João Paulo Rebelo will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u307	All right, it's registered, Mr. Deputies. Now, with no objection, we turn to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 34 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate in matters relating to the deployment of drivers in the road transport sector, transposing Directive 2020 / 1057 and establishing its sanctioning regime. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS and the CH and IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 253 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines that the occupation of heavy goods and passenger vehicles is considered to be of rapid wear. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the IL, the CFP and the L.]] Mr Bruno Dias asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u308	Mr President, it is to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u309	All right, it's registered, Mr. Deputies. We now have the general vote on Bill No. 216 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Ensures access to the State's institutional advertising campaigns, to the social media bodies directed to the Portuguese communities abroad, making the second amendment to Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH, IL and the CFP.]] Down to 12. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 250 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — The third amendment is made to Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August in order to include in its scope the institutional advertising of independent administrative entities. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]] Down to 12. the Commission Follows the general vote of Bill No 394 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — extends the scope of Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August 2015 to include Portuguese communities abroad. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PSD Member António Maló de Abreu and abstentions from PSD, IL, PCP, PAN and L.]] Mr António Maló de Abreu asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u310	Mr President, it is to inform you that I will present you with a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u311	All right, get registered. We now vote on the Resolution Project No 317 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the provisions of the law and publish promptly the order setting out the amounts of support to be allocated under the regional and local social communication incentive scheme. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS and IL.]] We then generally vote for Bill No 135 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the status of the police condition. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 136 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Democratic management of the GNR and PSP disease care system ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 158 / 2005 of 20 September ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] We voted for Resolution Project No 158 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government initiate a study and discussion process with a view to the creation of a national civilian police in place of PSP and GNR. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the CH, IL, PAN and L.]] Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u312	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u313	All right, it's registered, Mr. Deputies. We now have the general vote on Bill No 147 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Update of the amounts of the fixed component of the military condition supplement. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH and the NAP and IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 245 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Elimination of the sustainability factor applied to retired public security officers not covered by Decree-Law No 4 / 2017 of 6 January 2017. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and BE and abstentions against the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No 254 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Assigns to the officers with police functions of the security forces and services the qualification of the rapid wear occupation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and the NAP and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 256 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 243 / 2015 of 19 October ensuring compliance with the criteria for pre-invoicing and retirement of Public Security Police professionals in accordance with their professional status. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH and BE and abstentions against the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 381 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Increases the fixed component of the service supplement and risk of the personnel of the security forces and services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 109 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government develop a national airport plan, subject to strategic environmental assessment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PS, the CH and the IL.]] Then we will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 114 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — The dynamisation of passenger transport at Beja airport. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the IL, the CFP, the BE, the PAN, the L and the Member of the PS Pedro do Carmo and the PS, the PSD and the CH.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u314	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u315	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u316	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u317	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote in general on Resolution No. 308 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Taking advantage of Beja airport in its various dimensions and potentialities. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 99 / XV / 1 is followed. a ( PSD ) — Adopts specific provisions for the performance of forest police functions in the autonomous regions of the Azores and Madeira. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 390 / XV / 1. a (CH) — For the approval of various faculties inherent in the activity provided by the Florist Guards of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores and for the harmonisation of their respective retirement arrangements. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PS, IL, PCP and L.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 395 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Scheme for the performance of forest police functions by workers in the autonomous regions'lifeguard career. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 396 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the special regime applicable to the performance of forest police functions of flower-guard careers of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira and to the amendment to Decree-Law No 55 / 2006 of 15 March 2006. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the CH.]] The general vote of Bill No. 309 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (BE) — Measures to improve access to medical boards and speed up the issuance of the multi-purpose medical certificate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 246 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recasts the criterion inherent in the assessment of disability of persons with disabilities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the NAP and IL, the PCP and the L.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 385 / XV / 1. a (L) — Set the date on which the multi-purpose disability certificate produces effects and the dates involved in the necessary hierarchical remedy of the disability assessment. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 392 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Agileisation in issue or renewal, extension of validity and freeness of multi-use certificates. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and with abstentions from the PSD, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u318	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u319	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u320	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a written declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u321	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We then generally vote on Bill No. 388 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves a moratorium for the use of pyrotechnic articles and consequent replacement by silent artifacts, light games or similar, considering the negative impacts of traditional pyrotechnic articles on people's health, animal welfare and environment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH, IL, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the NAP and L abstention.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 309 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Establishment of a line of support for the treasury of micro and small companies in the pyrotechnic sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD and CH and abstentions against the CFP, BE and L.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 253 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government give priority to domestic supply and the abandonment of unsustainable uses in the "Water Tomato in the Pomarão" ( Guadiana River ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD, the CH and the Members of the PS João Miguel Nicolau and Pedro do Carmo and abstentions from the IL and from the Deputies of the PS Luís Capoulas Santos and Norberto Patinho.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u322	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u323	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u324	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u325	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. João Miguel Nicolau asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u326	Mr President, to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Pedro do Carmo on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u327	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u328	For the same purpose, Mr President. It is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival will present a written declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u329	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 177 / XV / 1. a (CH) — eliminates unjustified restrictions on access to regulated professions and sets limits on the duration and organization of internships. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the PCP were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the IL, BE, PAN and L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 178 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Regulatory reform of professional public associations, combating corporateism and democratizing access to professions ( first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the IL and abstention from the NAP.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on Bill No. 221 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Ensures the maintenance of the protection of shops with history that have passed to NRAU until 31 December 2027, amending Law No 42 / 2017 of 14 June. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, the IL votes against and the PS and the CH abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u330	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u331	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u332	It is to require, on behalf of the PS, the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for filing claims against inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u333	If there is no objection, the application submitted is approved. Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u334	Mr President, it is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival will present a written declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u335	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 25 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Extends the scope of the special system of expropriation and establishment of administrative services for the execution of projects integrated into the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme to projects covered by the Recovery and Resilence Plan. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PS, CH, IL and PAN and abstentions from the CFP, BE and L.]] Mrs. Susana Amador asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u336	Mr President, to submit a request on behalf of PS requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for filing claims against inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u337	I ask you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there is any opposition to the application submitted. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, it is the same as approved. The final overall vote of the final text is followed, presented by the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion, on Lein Projects 9 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs the mandatory remuneration of professional internships for access to the exercise of the profession by making the first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and the statutes of various professional public associations, and 108 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the safeguard of public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and promotion of access to professional activities by amending Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and Law No 53 / 2015 of 11 June. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, IL, PAN and PSD Member Alexandre Poço, votes against PSD, CH and PCP and abstentions by BE and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u338	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u339	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u340	To announce that I will present on my behalf a written statement of vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u341	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Emília Cerqueira also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u342	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u343	That will be the case at the end of the proceedings, Mrs Deputie. Mr Francisco Pereira de Oliveira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u344	To announce that I will present on my behalf a written statement of vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u345	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Paula Santos asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u346	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will make an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u347	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Isabel Guerreiro asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u348	To announce that I will present a written vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u349	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u350	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will make an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u351	We shall do so at the end of the vote, Mr President. Mr. Pedro Pinto asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u352	Mr President, it is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival will present a written declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u353	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I'm looking to know that the ladies and the ladies. Members are not under such family pressure to finally start buying Christmas gifts, as I am. I'll give you the best compliments for that. [[Laughing.]] We continue with the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on draft resolutions Nos 244 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government « ensure the right to forget », giving rise to the negotiation of the national agreement on access to credit and insurance contracts by persons who have overcome or mitigated aggravated health or disability risk situations in order to operationalize the right to forget as set out in Law No 75 / 2021 of 18 November and 273 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the effective application of the « right to forget », in accordance with Law No 75 / 2021 of 18 November. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 47 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Regulates the contributions of temporary solidarity on the energy and food sectors. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u354	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u355	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u356	It is to require, on behalf of the PS, the exemption from final drafting and the deadlines for claim against inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u357	If there is no objection, the application submitted is approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u358	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u359	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u360	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written vote statement on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u361	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall then vote on the final text on the Proposal for a Law No 42 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Legal Regime of Local Authorities by deepening the regime of metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We are now moving to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, of the replacement text on the Proposal for a Law No 42 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the Members of the PS Luís Capoulas Santos, Norberto Patinho and Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u362	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u363	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u364	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on behalf of the PSD bench with regard to this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u365	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u366	For the same purpose, Mr President. It is to inform that the NAP will present a written declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u367	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u368	For the same purpose, Mr President. It is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival will present a written declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u369	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u370	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u371	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u372	It is to require, on behalf of the PS, the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for filing claims against inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u373	If there is no objection, the application submitted is approved. We now vote on the opinion of the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion on the request for urgent procedure in the course of the proposal for a Law No 54 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the voluntary social insurance scheme approved by Decree-Law No 40 / 89 of 1 February in the current wording as well as the Code of Contributory Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System, as annexed to Law No 110 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 in the current wording in order to allow the admission of Portuguese residents in the diaspora. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, and the abstention from the CH were adopted.]] Mrs Sara Madruga from the Coast asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u374	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on behalf of the PSD bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u375	We have reached the end of today's vote, and we will therefore proceed to the oral explanations of vote on the diplomas we have just voted on. We shall begin with the statement of vote by the PSD Parliamentary Group, with the floor of Mrs Emilia Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u376	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the framework law of professional orders has been passed, which is a law that, the trailer of a commitment made by the Portuguese Government, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, without consulting it, is one more of those abuses between organs of sovereignty to which the Government is already habitual, compromising and disrespecting the House of Democracy, within the framework of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). With this blackmail, the government has made this law and this proposal always without deadlines and no maturation time, but, above all, without the will to hear and listen. With the excuse of facilitating access to professions, the government, allow me, « he killed two horses in a single box ». [[Laughing.]] On the one hand, it removes some obstacles, which the PSD has always supported through the submission of amendments. On the other hand, it ended with the possibility of the canaries and the orders could bring you some discomfort, some noise and even some concerns about reporting the sad state in which the PS came to put the regulated professions. I have asked several times what will be the power of the batonary from now on, but they have not been able to answer me. Why? Because the collegiate body of orders is now dominated by non-members of orders, forgetting, in particular, that these professions have a status of public interest in the defence of the public interest, and one of them is seen there, until it is laid down in the Constitution, to safeguard their independence: this is the case of the Advocates' Order. About the young people's apology, what does the PS do? The PS says that it votes against the payment of paid internships where there is no possibility of being paid by the training institutions. That is to say, this is a poisoned present, because we are at risk for young people, who today have no economic possibilities, even become untrained when there is no 'activating or ending programme', depending on the willingness to open an internship payment programme at any time. For PSD, access to professions is fundamental, empty orders, no. Otherwise they assume and say « we do not want them, we end them». They have the courage to say that what they want, in fact, is to put an end to orders, which is what they did by nullifying their powers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u377	For an oral vote on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u378	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This review of the legal system of professional orders generally reflects options that will have very negative consequences for thousands of professionals from various regulated professions, but also, above all, for the conditions in which citizens access the services provided by these professionals. In the law now approved, there is no answer to the main problems that professionals — or candidates for regulated professions — have been complaining over the years. For all this, the PCP voted against. These issues include issues as relevant as unwarranted restrictions on freedom of access and the exercise of the profession, the promotion of multinationals, acting in the form of multidisciplinary societies, to the detriment of professional societies and the activity in individual practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u379	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u380	The marketing of regulated professions through their framework in multidisciplinary societies, the degradation of specific conditions in the exercise of certain professions, the creation of situations of potential conflict between rules applicable to different professionals within the same organization, the legal imposition of the participation of foreign elements in the profession in the disciplinary body, the legal imposition of a supervisory body with extended powers integrating foreign elements into the profession, configured in such a way as to allow outside interference to the profession in aspects relevant to professional activity. Even the question of remuneration for traineeships is not solved as it should be. by approving only partially the proposal submitted by the CFP, the PS rejected the part relating to the essential criteria for that remuneration obligation to become effective. In essence, the PS is simply aware that it wants to solve the problem of remuneration for internships, creating, in practice, the conditions for this not to happen. The CFP will continue to beat itself so that the solutions it has now presented are actually implemented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u381	For an oral vote, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Having come to this point, there is a long work, of hearings held by both the various parliamentary groups and in committee. There were more than 30 presenceal hearings and 20 contributions submitted in writing at two moments of intervention, which were accepted in many of the amendments and proposals discussed and voted yesterday. Therefore, we can make statements of vote on the reality, which affects a stopped and long work, in which we went to meet the concerns of the CNOP (National Council of Professional Orders) and of many professional orders, or we can continue to repeat the same thing that we have been repeating since 2019, when it has left any translation or adherence to reality. There is a concern in the legislation now approved, which is to ensure that orders have space to play their role of autonomy, also safeguarding that it does not become a role disconnected from the possibility of supervision by civil society, allowing, precisely, the inclusion of persons who are not associated with the orders, can play this role of openness in some of their bodies. In fact, this is what happens, for example, in higher education, where general councils also include external elements. It is false the idea here reiterated — and which does not correspond to what is approved today — that in some way these bodies have a majority of these members. As regards disciplinary bodies, the majority are members of the members of the order.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u383	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u384	There is a minority of external members, but you need to know about professional activity. The supervisory body — yes, which has a majority of external elements — has no decision-making powers. It has supervisory functions in critical areas of access to the profession, recognition of degrees and the relevant area of discipline, and can issue recommendations, but not being replaced as an appeal body. In fact, this is what makes all the difference, because it is what protects the autonomy of professional orders, but does not make them in bodies closed over themselves, without this ability to dialogue with civil society. There is indeed a problem with access to some professions. There are, in fact, often artificial obstacles to the access of younger people to professional activities and, when such access takes place, it is often confused by the lack of remuneration, when in fact there is effective provision of work, which must be paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u385	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u386	What we do not abdicate is the balance, because we proclaim this principle, which is well registered, but we do not fail to recognize that there are some professions in which it will be in its statutes—and in the second phase of this work we will have the opportunity here to examine in detail all the cases of the 20 professional orders—which will be defined by what terms, conditions and scale that remuneration will take place. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're in the middle of the road.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u387	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u388	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are in the middle of the road and I note that as regards multidisciplinary societies, it is an obligation to the law of the European Union. If we do not regulate this matter in a law of the Republic, we will only have to comply with the fact that someone constitutes a multidisciplinary society in Spain and opens a subsidiary in Portugal, in which case neither can control the ethical exercise of the profession nor its disciplinary functioning nor the guarantee, for example, of professional secrecy. This corresponds to greater protection for professionals...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u389	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u390	... that they develop their activity in Portugal and not their reverse. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-22.u391	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the agenda for this plenary session. I ask you now, another 45 seconds of your attention. The first 30 seconds are to say that the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 4 January, at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the following items: political statements at the first point; in the second point, we will appreciate Petition No 250 / XIV / 2. a ( José Bruno Teixeira Alves et al.) — Nurses with an individual employment contract (ITC) ask for equality in respect of those who have contracts for public office, together with the Bills Nos 186 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Equalization is made between nurses linked to an individual employment contract (ITC) and nurses linked to a public service contract (FPC) for remuneration and remuneration positions, 378 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integration of workers with individual employment contracts into their Public Administration careers and 448 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Equality between workers with individual employment contracts and with employment contracts in public functions in the field of health, generally; in the third and last points, Petition No 235 / XIV / 2 will be assessed. a (Paul God and others) — In defense of the Tapada das Necessities, together with the Resolution Projects Nos. 94 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — By preserving and defending the Tapada das Necessities as a public space, 105 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By maintaining the Garden of the Tapada das Necessities, 131 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By rehabilitating and safeguarding the public interest and enjoyment of the Tapada das Necessities, 151 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — By preserving the historical and natural values of the Tapada das Necessities and 161 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Regenerate the Capada das Necessities and open the Royal Palace to the public as new by the museum after exiting the MNE. The last 15 seconds will serve to wish you all a very good feast. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 1 minute.]]
