ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Our sitting today has a three-point agenda. The first point is that of the discussion of the rules which yesterday, within the Committee on Budget and Finance, were lawyers for discussion in plenary. Then we will have a voting period, with their quorum verification. First we shall hold the vote on the Rules of Procedure and then on the text of the draft budget law. Finally, we will continue the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 38 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2023. Therefore, we will initiate the first item on our agenda and to intervene on the proposal 631 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 23. o-D — Access to law and to courts has the floor of Mrs Paula Cardoso of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD proposal requires the Government to submit a proposal for a review of the Law on Access to Law and the Courts by the end of the first quarter of 2023. It is that, My Lords, since the end of 2016 the Socialist Government has promised to review this law. Although at the end of the XIII Legislature the Government, led by Prime Minister António Costa, has presented in this House a bill on this matter, the truth is that it did so at the end of the Legislature, knowing that there would be no time for its implementation before the 2019 legislative elections. And, despite the previous Minister of Justice promised several times, during the past legislature, the resumption of this proposal, which would also contain the review of the fee table for those who provide services in the context of judicial support, the truth is that he did not do so and, once again, in this Budget, this matter is forgotten. Do you think it's not urgent to do this? It is urgent to do so, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Portugal is today a country in effective denial of justice for the overwhelming majority of its citizens. Only extremely poor or frankly rich people can access law and courts, so it is urgent to democratize, facilitate and extend access to justice to more citizens. The criteria for judicial support must be reviewed, and it is already late today. After many years of freezing, the fees of the informal lawyers were ridiculously updated at 0, 08 €, in 2020, and at 0, 32 € last August. These updates are offensive and outrageous, they do not comply with the law, they do not take into account the inflation rate and harm the dignity that the Constitution wanted to give to forensic sponsorship. That's how the government goes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u3	Mrs. Members, to speak on proposal 1359 - C, submitted by the PS, of addition, to the bill of law of article 43. o-B — Study and evaluation of the cost and implementation of a contingency plan at Madeira International Airport - Cristiano Ronaldo, are registered with Members Marta Freitas, PS, and Patrícia Dantas, PSD. Mrs. Marta Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this debate of the 2023 Budget, we have already had the opportunity to list a set of proposals and commitments for the Autonomous Region of Madeira, such advances, which have been possible with the Governments of the Socialist Party, since 2015. Today, we are bringing to the discussion of this Budget another step in the commitments of the Socialist Party towards Madeira in this Parliament. It is a proposal to ensure better mobility for our autonomous region. We know the weight of tourism activity in the Madeira economy — it accounts for more than 30 % of the GDP (gross domestic product) of the Madeira Autonomous Region — we also know the impact of adverse climate conditions on Madeira airport, conditioning its operationality, with significant costs for this region and for the mobility of Madeiran citizens. New equipment is already being installed in this airport infrastructure, radars that will enable some of these constraints to be mitigated, but it is not enough, and it is not enough because only technical and scientific decisions will result in possible administrative changes. Winds will not cease to exist, nor the wind limits for safety at landing, so we cannot risk seeing this important economic activity affected to our region, to see the flow of passengers looking for Madeira as a holiday destination, or to limit the mobility of Madeirans. For these reasons, it is urgent to create normal conditions in the mobility of and for Madeira and a formal contingency plan is urgently needed. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore proposes in 2023 that the Government request ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ) to carry out a study on the implementation of a contingency plan at Madeira airport, including the location of the airport of Porto Santo, and also a maritime link to Madeira, defining in particular the sources of financing and the responsibility of the interveners, being also important to strengthen ANAC financially for this study for this purpose. We will therefore continue to move forward with our commitments towards Madeira, in the defence of Madeirans and the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u5	You now have the floor to Mrs. Patrícia Dantas of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u6	Mr President, to hear that the Government is asking ANAC to carry out a study for a contingency plan at Madeira airport may well seem to some, but for the Madeirans this can only be considered a joke. And this is because the people of Madeira know that the best way to wrap up a problem is to create a working group or order a study, and that this is the most used file by PS. Now, what the Madeira airport needs is a change in its operating conditions: the change in wind limits, which date from 1964, when the runway was less than 1200 m. This change depends precisely on the ANAC, which in 2018 imposed the acquisition of equipment for further studies; this investment is a responsibility of the State ; the NAV (Air Navigation of Portugal, EPE ), at the end of five years, launched the international public contest and therefore the investments are not yet operational. Madeira airports, as well as airlines, have a contingency plan, and this, yes, works. For this reason, the Madeirans will judge this ambush more and will no longer accept a request for studies, which can only be understood as a way of the Socialist Party of Madeira having something to say in the year of regional elections. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u7	To intervene on the proposal 1346 - C, submitted by the PS, to add an article 47. o-C — Public higher education institutions of the autonomous regions, Mr Francisco César of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the proposal we advocate for this plenary is one of the 25 amendments in 60, which have a direct impact on the Autonomous Region of the Azores. This has always been our commitment: to present proposals that can help families to cope with the impacts of inflation; to train and help businesses, to be more competitive and invest in job creation; but also to train the State, throughout the national territory, in what it must be, and that is, its action. This contract that we propose here to be fulfilled by the Government of the Republic, the Regional Government and the University of the Azores is of the greatest victories the Azorian people can have. First of all, because it is the fulfilment of a commitment and the word given, either by the Government of the Republic of then, or by the Socialist Party, in its electoral programme. Secondly, because it recognizes something that is fundamental to the autonomous regions: the island universities, through their outermost regions, need additional support for a functioning that truly manages knowledge and wealth in the autonomous regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u10	And finally, because this contract not only enables the university to provide more financial means, as it establishes a partnership between several parties that allows the university to acquire, from a scientific point of view, from a technical point of view, from the point of view of human resources, with a defined deadline and, in this way, to do what is its role: to create wealth in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, to create knowledge in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. And the role of the Government of the Republic is to help the University of the Azores to fulfill its role in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u11	On the same subject, Mr. Paulo Moniz, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS, in advocating this proposal, comes in practice to camouflage the unwillingness to comply with the University of the Azores. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] In fact, it is not enough to camouflage, it is not enough to say, it is necessary to comply. If you really wanted to comply with the University of the Azores, you would have-CL-enroled it in the Budget and would not present a proposal for an avulva amendment. This is absolutely the truth! [[PSD applause.]] This proposal is not structural...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u13	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u14	...as the one proposed by the PSD and the gentlemen have plummeted. This proposal is, again, in the one that is the best line of the PS, to go giving a stamp, year by year, to keep the University of Azores dependent on the mercy and political will of each government. [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]] The University of Azores needs a stable contract, a contract outside of policy, a contract that is truly a predictable and institutional development tool, like the law of regional finance. The University of the Azores does not need to be hand-held or hand-held. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u15	On the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Higher Education, Pedro Nuno Teixeira, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u16	Mr. President and Mr. Members, as it is public, the first institutional visits that the current team of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education conducted were precisely at the University of Azores and the University of Madeira. This is part of a political commitment to enhance the role of these two universities as instruments of qualification and valorization of these two regions. Therefore, we value this proposal very much, because it is a proposal that contributes to enhancing the attractiveness, internationalization and scientific consolidation of the University of Azores. We understand, in fact, that it can be an instrument that helps the new team of the University of Azores to dynamize a strategy that strengthens these dimensions and seems to us that it can be a sign to replicate, later, in the context of the review of the higher education financing system, which is planned for 2023. The logic of contractualization with institutions is something that we believe can be very well welcomed by the generality of public higher education institutions and that can also contribute to the alignment between their institutional strategies and what are the objectives, in terms of public policy, to the higher education system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u17	Still on the same subject, and in no more than 29 seconds, Mr Francisco César has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr. Paulo Moniz, there is a difference between the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party. Do you know what it is? [[There, there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u19	It is very clear: we promise and fulfill,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH laughter.]] ...you just promise and as long as you're in government you didn't do it. Secondly, Mr. Paulo Moniz, there is something I have to say to you: ask the University of the Azores if you are not satisfied and the University of Madeira if you do not wish to have the same financing contract. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u20	On the same subject, Mr Paulo Moniz has just entered the PSD for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u21	Mr President, Mr Francisco César, the former Socialist Government sent Minister Manuel Heitor, with his Socialist Government in the Azores, to promise four times and never signed. Who does not fulfill the promises to the University of the Azores are the socialists! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u22	We now turn to Article 53. o — Obligations assumed by municipalities in the process of decentralization of competences. For an intervention on the proposal 1601 - C, submitted by the Czech Republic, deleting Article 53. that of the bill, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u23	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Unfortunately, Members have lost respect for the security forces, much because of the contempt that successive governments have had in relation to these so important forces. Now, we are more concerned about the dignity of criminals than about really defending those who can guarantee the security of our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u24	A country can never be great if it does not have strong and conditioned security forces. On average, six police officers were assaulted every day, since the year began. « Group of 20 people attacks two PSP agents in Coimbra » ; « Military of the GNR assaulted in Ponte de Sor »; « GNR agents assaulted in the Weight of the Rule »; « Two police assaulted in Gondomar » ; « Alcoholized driver agride GNR »; still this week, « Chief of Police assaulted in the Upper Quarter », in Lisbon, and also « Military of the GNR assaulted » violently by two men in the Moita. I could get you dozens, dozens of news of assaults. You have to change your opinion! If all these examples are not enough to really increase the risk allowance for our security forces, then I don't know what will be needed. Only if it's the death of one or two, or three, cops every day, so that it really feels like it's important to increase the allowance for the security forces... The amount of €450 is for the career to be more attractive. And it does not matter to the Secretary of State who came here yesterday to say "we are working by the security forces". It's a lie! It's fake! The government does not work by the security forces! It is false that the career of those gentlemen who are up there in the galleries is more valued! They are assaulted and even moderate rates are noticed in hospitals, security forces have to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u25	What moderate rates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u26	This is true! People at home need to know this: up to moderate rates in hospitals security forces have to pay. This only has one word: shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party have the courage to change the sense of vote and to vote in favour of this proposal. Not to say that, of the other parties represented here, the only one who voted next to the Arrival was the PAN; the others speak, speak, speak, but everyone abstained. Shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u27	To speak on the same subject, you now have the floor of Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Protection, Patrícia Gaspar.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, dear colleagues, it is important to re-emphasize, in view of this intervention, what has been well-figured yesterday: this budget—and not just this budget, but all the work that has been done over the past few years—is the mirror of the government's commitment to the security forces, the GNR ( Republican National Guard) and the PSP ( Public Security Police ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] The risk allowance was increased from 33 € to 100 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u29	A fortune! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u30	This is an evolution that needs to be done gradually, responsibly and sustainably. And this is the commitment we have already made, including with the unions working in this area and with these forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u31	They were all happy, beating their hands! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u32	We are talking about a compromise over EUR 50 million on this issue. We're talking about a serious commitment that, once again, we're not dealing with populist narratives, it's not about, it's not about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about soundb... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... it deals with serious work. It is this serious work that we have been doing over the years and we already assume that we will continue to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u33	We now turn to the analysis of the addition of Article 58. the -A - Assessment of seismic vulnerability and strengthening of the Decentralisation Financing Fund, provided for in proposal 1066 - C, submitted by the PSD. Mr Luís Gomes, from the PSD, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the LNEC ( National Civil Engineering Laboratory, I.P. ) he delivered a study at the City Hall of Lisbon a little more than one year ago, at the request of the then President of the House and now Minister of Finance, Fernando Medina, regarding the seismic vulnerability of school equipment in this municipality. The conclusions are quite clear: in a context of an earthquake in 50 years, 2400 children and young people in this municipality would be displaced. In view of this, we have put forward a clear proposal, which has to do with the possibility of the government being able to intervene in schools that want to decentralise the municipalities. unlike the rest of the House, the Socialist Party voted against. We felt yesterday the weight of the "compressor roller" of this majority. [[PSD applause.]] A majority that is cantoned in the habitat of an absolute majority here in this House. We are convinced that this absolute arrogance no longer respects the safety of children and young people in this country and we hope that history will not give us reason. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u35	To intervene on proposal 406 - C, submitted by the CFP, amending Article 71. o — Agreements on the regularization of debts of local authorities have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP. [[Pause.]] Mrs Paula Santos pointed out to the Bureau that she did not wish to intervene. We therefore consider the addition of Article 76. o -A— Update of pensions, contained in proposal 1671 - C, submitted by the PCP. Mr Alfredo Maia of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u36	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot waste this opportunity to seek to restore justice and law in relation to the values of reforms and pensions. In fact, there are only two options: either to maintain the government's decision, to increase pensions by only 4, 43 %, when the law orders to update them by up to 8 % — being complicit in a dramatic cut in incomes of those who need the most – or to take a step forward, allowing the elderly and reformed to regain purchasing power and face the massive degradation of the cost of living, with the due update of pensions in 2023 and the guarantee that they will also have it in the following years. That step, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is only possible with the approval of the proposal for the extraordinary updating of pensions by 8 %, with the guarantee of a minimum increase of €50 per pensioner, which was plunged in this House yesterday by the majority of the PS, with the complicity of the forces on the right. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u37	What we propose is not only possible as imperative. With the PS position, pensioners and pensioners will effectively lose purchasing power and will continue to impoverish. The PS itself recognises this when submitting a proposal for an addendum to the Budget which provides for the Government to update pensions, taking into account the evolution of the consumer and gross domestic product price index. What the Executive should have done, when he made the updates last September, to enter into force on 1 January 2023, was precisely to comply with the law. It happens that the Socialist Party's proposal, seeking to amend the government's error, does not resolve the problem satisfactorily,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u39	... since it does not assume that it has to comply with the law and much less establishes the time when the proposed update should happen. And that moment, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it must be 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u40	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u41	Mrs. Members, the real opportunity to restore the truth in the relationship between the state and pensioners and to restore justice in the effort to restore purchasing power and resistance to inflation is really this: to approve the proposal of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u42	On the same subject, you now have the floor of Mr. Jorge Galveias, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the social justice of the elderly is to be given a reform that will enable them to live in peace and without worry. As I mentioned yesterday in this House, when presenting our proposal, the age group above the age of 65 is the one who is experiencing greater difficulties, with a rate of more than 88% of risk of poverty. in this sense, it is time to restore the dignity of all pensioners and improve their living conditions, bringing the lowest pensions closer to the national minimum wage. The arrival has fought for this desire, seeing all its proposals plummeted, in what the left, in a perfectly anti-democratic way, called 'Health Circle', a health circle which, by the ideological blindness of the left parties, has already harmed and continues to harm many Portuguese, and that is not democracy. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the arrival is a right-wing party, a defender of the dignity of every human being, of the cohesion of societies, of justice, of collective humanist prosperity and, as such, with constant concern for the well-being and improvement of the lives of Portuguese, values that are not exclusive from the left, as the left wants to believe. He called for this proposal. Although we believe that it is not enough, it will not be enough to make it impossible for the elderly and reformed to receive a little more at the end of each month, and we will therefore vote in favour. We will see what the position of the CFP will be and, of course, of the other parties, with regard to the proposal of the Arrival, of, until the end of the Legislature — and in a conditional manner — equate the minimum pension with the national minimum wage. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u44	On the same subject, you now have the floor, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know that pensioners are the most affected age group with inflation and at risk of vulnerability and poverty. That is why talking about the impact of inflation on its income is not a minor issue, quite the contrary. In some cases, there is already evidence that with inflation, the increases will fall below what they should, namely about 3, 47 % below the necessary value. This actually means a cut that is absolutely unnecessary at the time when the elderly should have a strengthening of support to somehow prevent them from becoming more vulnerable. in this sense, we understand that this budget should go further, not only looking at the impact of inflation on pensioners' incomes, but also looking at the various social support that we have the opportunity to make pass, thus ensuring that the most vulnerable population has support to reduce their monthly turnover every month. We shall vote on the first of these proposals today. I am talking about the enlargement of the social energy tariff in line with inflation. This is a measure of the most basic justice, which will in fact cover pensioners and thus ensure that, whether pensioners or more vulnerable families, they can have support mechanisms that combat energy poverty, one of the biggest scourges in our country, where pensioners are one of the most affected fringes. The second proposal relates to the extension of the number of beneficiaries of the additional health benefits. When we know that there are pensioners who have to choose between eating and buying drugs, it is essential that the specialty process ensures, for example, access to health for these people. in this sense, and knowing that drugs, by virtue of war and inflation, can increase value already in the next year, the NAP wants that elderly people who do not have access to the supplementary solidarity for the elderly, but who, after paying the pharmacy account, have incomes below this value, can have access to this help for the payment of medicines. We hope that there will indeed be a political will to hand over to those who need it the most. It is a measure of the most basic justice, and for which social security has a budgetary strike, so that we can combat the scourge that exists in this country and that reaches the older population.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u46	On the same subject, you now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we did so together yesterday, but allow me, as I am speaking to support a proposal for the PCP, to begin by greeting, fraternal and democratically, Jerome de Sousa, for his service to the country and this House, over the decades, starting with the Assembly which made the Constitution that governs us all. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] I am speaking in support of this proposal from the CFP, since the Free Paper also presented a proposal to simply account for the extraordinary increase this year in pensions to part of the calculation base, which would allow pensioners and pensioners to lose nothing of their income from 2024, 2025 and subsequent years, proposed, which, unfortunately, was rejected. There has been a situation of uncertainty, huge insecurity and anxiety for pensioners and reformers in Portugal, which has not been created in vacuum, the government has left it to be created or created directly, and the only way we have to solve this matter is to say that the law must be met, that incomes as provided for in the law should be ensured and that the sustainability of social security, which is a cause that we all must be concerned about, must be addressed through new sources of social security financing. There is a committee to work, a working group, within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the results of this work will be announced next year and, then, there will be an account to be made, to know how many years are lost or not on the basis that social security should have for the years in which we have fewer people to contribute than to benefit from retirement pensions. But until we arrive at that moment, when these accounts are done with serious calculations and not with things that are said in television interviews and that may or may not be confirmed, what is needed is that the law is complied with. Several parties presented proposals in this regard. The CFP has advocated the vote on its proposal for today. It would be very important if we were to put our hands on this proposal and if this were to be approved and if we were to do the debate next year on the sustainability of social security, including looking for income to those companies which today have a very small workforce, but have very high profits and must therefore contribute to the general package of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u48	To speak on the same subject, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the budget in which the government breaks the law so as not to respect the rights of pensioners and pensioners. This is the budget in which the Socialist Party breaks the law so as not to pay what is due to pensioners and pensioners. This is the budget in which the government breaks the law on the basis of « hammered » numbers, designed to undermine confidence in social security and only and only to fail to comply with the legal obligation with pensioners and pensioners. This is the Budget in which the Socialist Party breaks the law based on the same argument on the right, which, in order to scare people, shakes the flag of unsustainable social security, when we know that the sustainability of social security was guaranteed when we started creating jobs and when we ended up with that side of the right, that it was necessary to impoverish to save the country and social security. Poverty only brings poverty and those who interpret these words on the right as inevitable, which is what the Socialist Party and the Government are doing, are, in practice, giving a huge gift to those who have always wanted to attack the sustainability of social security. This is the budget in which the Government and the Socialist Party break the law to do just as much as the right did in the past: to prevent pensioners and pensioners, in the monthly payment of their pension and retirement, from having what is due them. And it is the Budget in which the Government and the Socialist Party break the law, saying that they will now give a charity, not to pay what is due by law, and it is a right of people. This is incomprehensible, it is unacceptable and that is why the Left Block proposed only this: if you comply with the law, you pay what is due! And not by chance, not by surprise, the Socialist Party voted against this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, are now confronted with a very simple reality: do they want to respect the law, even respect the legacy of the Socialist Party's past, of Vieira da Silva, or want to cut the rights of pensioners and pensioners? Oh, my God! We'll see who gets up in minutes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u50	To speak on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was no government supported by the Socialist Party that cut the value of paid pensions. [[CH Protests and PSD Deputies.]] It was no government supported by the Socialist Party that broke the social contract for short-term gains. It was no government supported by the Socialist Party that had forgotten intergenerational solidarity, putting generations against each other. I want to remember that ruling is quite different from doing and "planting" posters based on hypothetical scenarios, created there you know with what intention. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, you may collect posters, but I say to you, with some satisfaction, that this message does not fit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u53	I understand, we all understand the disorientation of some, by analyzing the outcome of the governments supported by the Socialist Party, with the growth of contributions, the growth of employment and healthy public accounts. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Therefore, prudently, as all governments should, we have presented a solution for 2023 which allows the generality of pensioners not to lose purchasing power, considering the years of 2022 and 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have presented a solution that responds to the economic constraints resulting from the pandemic and the way the whole planet is emerging from this crisis. Pensions were not cut in 2022 and will not be cut in 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u54	And then?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u55	They're there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u56	We will speak of 2024 at the right time, even after we all know the result of the committee's work to the Green Paper on the sustainability of the social security system, and based on more solid data. We will all speak of 2024, with a assumption that it is true: this government and all the governments supported by the Socialist Party do not fail to the pensioners and to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u57	They're already failing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u58	On the same subject, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u59	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, are the Socialist Party and the Government of the Secretary of State of the Socialist Party, which break the law so as not to pay what is due to pensioners and pensioners. It is the Government of the Socialist Party that creates a war between generations, when it invents accounts to present a scenario of future unsustainability of social security, if it complies with the law that is in force. This war, this dichotomy between generations, was not the right that created it now, a month ago, was the Socialist Party, it was this government. Based on what? In false accounts, in false accounts! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u60	« Assemble themselves, the truth is discovered»! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u61	It is this government, it is this Socialist Party, which breaks the law so as not to pay what is due, which is legally due. That is why this Socialist Party and this Government are cutting off pensioners' rights. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Secretary of State says « but we are not the right; they cut and we did not». Mr. Secretary of State, the PS is being the right, when, alone, it determines that it does not pay the pensioners' rights. And that's what we report. Does it hurt? It hurts you, but it hurts the reformers and pensioners much more, who had planned rights, expectations created, hopes based on a law voted in favour of the Socialist Party and which was respected in previous years. This year, it is the Socialist Party that, with an absolute majority, alone, breaks the law and this commitment. This responsibility is yours, Mr Secretary of State, it is from this government, it is from these Members and from these Members! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] On these responsibilities, each one's conscience will say, but pensioners and pensioners know who is with them, and they also know who is against them, which is the Government of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u62	To speak on the same subject, Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u63	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, with due respect, point out that the Government insists on an efabulation. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u64	And this efabulation is to say that there is no loss of purchasing power by pensioners and pensioners. What we will have in 2023 is indeed a real cut in pensions that they should receive. There is no doubt about this and there is even a broad consensus. Moreover, Mr. Secretary of State: there are two entities, which are ultimately independent or, at least, suspicious of being united with the Portuguese Communist Party, which say exactly what we have been saying. It says the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, expressing clear reservations as to how the updating of pensions will be calculated from 2023, and stressing that « The option of the State budget proposal means a loss of the value of pensions... » — the expression is of the Economic and Social Council itself, in fact, it is also ours, but it is of the Economic and Social Council —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u65	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u66	... «... since the exceptional supplement... » — paid last October— «... will not integrate the value of pensions which will be the subject of increases in 2023 [... ] ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u67	It's evidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u68	In turn, UTAO (Budget Support Technical Unit) says: « Pensions in 2023 will be updated according to a transitional scheme created for this purpose, with a negative impact on the base value of pensions to be paid in the following years. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u69	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u70	More: « If it is not corrected in the revision of the rule created in 2006, promised to happen in 2023, there will be a loss of pensioners'income in 2024 and subsequent years », etc. etc. etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u71	There will be! It's not safe!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u72	Mr. Secretary of State, in view of the evidence, only the hand must be amended.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u73	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u74	And the Socialist Party — and the right is in agreement with it, or at least it is complicit — has a sovereign opportunity at this time to amend its hand. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u75	To speak on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, we have repeated many times, but we do so again, for the sake of everyone's clarification:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u77	And it's still not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u78	... in 2023, there will be no loss of purchasing power of pensioners. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We approved an exceptional supplement, paid to all pensioners last October, and from the very first moment we announced the update to 2023, to ensure that in 2023, pensions are paid according to the inflation recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u79	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u80	And for this reason, an amendment has been tabled in this House, precisely to ensure legal empowerment so that the Government, having a need to correct the value, will ensure this objective. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has been with the PS Government, with the participation of the left to the left of the Socialist Party, that the value of pensions has been updated and increased every year since 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u81	And most of them came and ate them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u82	Today, we will respond again to pensioners with extraordinary support and the planned update next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u83	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u84	E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat what I have already said: we have not failed pensioners in the past, nor will we fail in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u85	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u86	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to correct a sentence that he said because, in fact, as life is now demonstrating, it was not by the participation of the parties on the left that pensions were frozen in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, that the law was fulfilled, it was by imposing on the Socialist Party, by the parties on the left that this happened. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] And how does that look? Although the PS has an absolute majority, it doesn't decide on its own, what is the first thing it does? To break the law that had previously complied, the law that the Socialist Party had approved here in the Assembly of the Republic. And in the name of what? In the name of all the arguments we have heard of the PSD, on the right, in the past! Mr. Secretary of State, it is not rhetorical from the Left Block to say that the PS is doing what the right has done. It is the practice of the Socialist Party that is carrying out exactly what the right has done. That's the choice! [[PS protests.]] Keep the law, Mr. Secretary of State! If you respect pensioners and pensioners, follow the law! Why don't you keep it? Oh, my God! On the basis of hammered accounts, accounts that have not brought to Parliament? On the basis of bulldozers, once again, to frighten people about the unsustainability of social security, not to fulfil rights? Oh, my God! This is the difference! We're not just talking about bills, we're talking about rights. What pensioners know is that in 2023 they will lose rights, the result of a choice of the Socialist Party. This is because when the Socialist Party can comply with the law, it chooses to withdraw rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u87	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u88	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State says there is no loss of purchasing power. But, Mr. Secretary of State, just see any indication for the next year, and it is demonstrated, month after month, in the supermarket account. Above all, what is demonstrated is also the insensitivity of the Socialist Party, who knows that many of these pensioners need this money to deal with these essential goods. On this, the Secretary of State will have his conscience, but will have our opposition to that choice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u89	I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Galveias, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u90	Mr President, Secretary of State, enough lies is enough to deceive pensioners and pensioners. It was the gentlemen who changed the formula that will cause the reformers to lose purchasing power in 2023. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u91	That's enough! This government should be ashamed to spend their lives deceiving the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u92	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, is now registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u93	Mr President, I have asked for the floor to speak on access to justice — which is one of the first Advocates — precisely because access to law is a basic right in our democratic rule of law. In this way, we need to ensure that the fees of lawyers — which is fundamental — are updated at the rate of inflation. in this sense, I recall that this House has already approved this year a recommendation to the Government to make the same update. This has not yet happened, but it is vital that it happen. However, we need to go further. The rights of the lawyers' kinship have been completely on the way. In addition, there is also the debate of the CPAS (Privacy Box of Lawyers and Applicants) and of the unremunerated professional stages, which are in transit in this House and which should also be the subject of not only discussion as of approval.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u94	To intervene, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to raise our views on four of the pleas made and also leave one comment on another. I begin with the latter, which concerns a proposal from the CFP which affects pensions. This after the debate we have just attended, in which we note that the Left Block is the only party that strongly insists that the current social security system is sustainable...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u96	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u97	... and after finding that only in recent months, the PS Government has presented four scenarios for the sustainability of the system. Therefore, our commitment is that when you really want to recognize that the current system is not sustainable and you want to have a serious debate to find an alternative, we will say: “ Here you go! Do not keep on seeking. Turning to the remaining four proposals, starting with the two advocacys made by the PSD — the first on fair access to law and courts and the second on strengthening the Decentralisation Financing Fund on the issue of seismic vulnerability — what do they have in common? The fact that they have been plunged, in the specialty, only by PS, so it is already quite known as the compressor roll of the majority. in this case, how are they really alone, what do we have? We have the compressor roll of the majority that goes into the opposite direction on the highway and tells the other parties that they are all wrong. It therefore agrees that there should be some humility on the part of this majority to recognize that there are proposals, namely that of fair access to law and to courts, which should be approved and not ultimately plunged only because they are not presented by themselves. As for the remaining two proposals, which are from the Socialist Party, having been approved by it, the PS decided to advocate one on one matter from the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the other on one on the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Starting with the first, what justifies this proposal regarding the contingency plan of Madeira International Airport? We are in 2022, on the way of 2023, and just remember that on 12 June 2019 the Liberal Initiative defended that it urged to create a real contingency plan for the airport— nor was it to do the study, it was to move fast towards the creation of the plan. This was the position of the Liberal Initiative in Madeira. But the PS suddenly recalled that in 2023 there were regional elections in Madeira and presented here a proposal to see whether any sympathy of the Madeirans with regard to the problems that they have felt a few years ago. The PS has woken up because there will be elections. It's the PS at your best! The second proposal, concerning the University of Azores, is very interesting because it shows that neither the Socialist Party's own Parliamentary Group believes in the promises that the Socialist Party's Government makes every time it goes to the Azores and the University of Azores. Therefore, as they do not trust the PS Government, there comes the PS Parliamentary Group — through the honourable Members. Members of the PS of the Azores — bring this proposal to see if such a "word given is an honest word" is even fulfilled by the Government of the Socialist Party. In fact, the University of Azores has specific characteristics, has problems resulting from its tripolarity and needs special attention. It's just, once again, they're waking up late. There are no regional elections in 2023, but that is where you walk. They see if in the next elections they return to that power, in particular the problem of the vast majority who have left the Azores for many years and who are now solving it. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u98	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State Patrícia Gaspar, you know, a few years ago, those young people who are up there in the galleries would like to be cops. They dreamed of being cops, firefighters, teachers, health professionals, but thanks to the governments that have happened today they no longer dream of being cops. You know why? Because they don't want to be assaulted, they don't want to be mistreated, they don't want their fitness to be challenged. What does this government do to fight this? Give them 100 € risk allowance. Mrs. Secretary of State, it is not with 100 € that those young people will want to go to the police, risk their lives, fight for a better country and fight for Portugal. This is not how security forces are dignified. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u100	To speak, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has now the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members—in particular, the Left Block and the PCP—with the Socialist Party, pensions in Portugal increased in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and, in 2023, they will increase again and in 2024 will increase again! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP and BE protests.]] This increase in the past, as when they increased in the future, resulted from the PS votes and, in some circumstances, from the votes of the Left Block and the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u102	Oh, that's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u103	There is only one very important question: in 2022, pensions increased again with the PS votes, but with the votes against the Left Block and the PCP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not accept moral lessons! Whenever the pensioners needed the PS to increase their pensions, when the right cut, it was with us that they counted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u104	Great adrabice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u105	And it is with us that they will continue to count, in 2024, to increase pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Mr Secretary of State said, also with the amendment tabled by this bank between 2022 and 2023, pensioners, particularly the most fragile, with lower pensions, will not lose purchasing power. That's because, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen — here too to the right! — we did not reach the government by promising one thing and doing another! [[CH protests.]] With us, the word given is even an honest word! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u106	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a very brief manner, I come to restate the truth in this debate, replying to the Secretary of State for Social Security and the Socialist Party, saying the following: there is indeed a loss of purchasing power. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It is not only the PSD that says so, it is the official entities that say so, such as UTAO and the ESC ( Economic and Social Council ). Mr. Secretary of State said that the Socialist Party and the Government do not fail to the pensioners. So breaking a law, not complying with a law, isn't it failing for pensioners? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Secretary of State, contrary to what you said, you have failed in the past, you fail in the present and you will fail in the future for pensioners. But the worst thing is that they are always deceiving them, either in the past or now, with the non-refreshment of pensions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u108	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the first item on our agenda, so we will proceed to the vote. I call on the services to register in the electronic quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member is having difficulty registering. [[Pause.]] Mr. Carlos Pereira signalled to the Bureau. All right, it's registered, Mr. Deputies. Anyone else? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum, so we will start the votes, starting with the vote on the Rules of Procedure, which, in the present case, concerns draft resolution No 282 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Qatar.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u109	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u110	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u111	I would like to inform the Bureau that Mr Rui Afonso has not been able to register, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u112	Has Mr Rui Afonso not been able to register or say that before? All right, you're marked, sir. The same applies to Mr Luís Graça, who is signaling the Bureau in the same way. Is there any other Member or Member who has not yet been able to register? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we resumed the vote on draft resolution No 282 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Qatar. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD and PCP, votes against IL, BE, PAN, L and members of PS Alexandra Leitão, Carla Sousa, Isabel Alves Moreira and Pedro Delgado Alves and abstentions from CH, from PS MP Eduardo Alves, Maria João Castro and Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues and from PSD Deputies Antonio Topa Gomes, Fátima Ramos and Hugo Carneiro.]] Oral explanations of vote will now take place. Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Czech Republic, has the floor by order of entry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the first time that we abstain or vote against the travels of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u114	They've voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u115	This is a different trip, it's a trip to a football world, it's a trip to accompany the Portuguese football selection. However, we found it appropriate to maintain our abstention. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa is the President of the Republic of Portuguese history who traveled the most, having already made the triple of the trips that made Mário Soares and Ramalho Eanes, for example, our abstention. Come now to speak against voting against only hypocrisy, cheap demagogy,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... cheap demagogy of those who have discovered today that human rights are not met in Catar. They found out today! The organization of this world football was attributed to Qatar in 2010. Where was the Left Block defending human rights? Where the Liberal Initiative was — at the time, there was not yet,... [[Laughing.]] ...but you were in other parties! — to defend human rights? Where were these political parties defending human rights?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u116	It didn't exist either!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u117	Now everyone has found that Qatar does not comply with human rights. So four years ago, when the football world was in Russia, where were they all? They were all quiet! Some were traveling to Russia, others were here in this Parliament, but no one voted against the football world in Russia. [[L. Protests.]] I therefore leave only the words ‘hypocrisy’ and ‘demagogy’ for those who speak today in human rights. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u118	For an oral vote on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u119	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u120	Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is happening in Qatar, as well as the process that led to this world, has not been discovered today. For years, associations that defend human rights have denounced the one who will be known as the world of shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u122	Islamophobia!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u123	Is it Islamophobic? There they are bad, but here they are good! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u124	In fact, this world football championship will be played on an impressive number of corpses—at least 6500 workers, if not 15 000,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u125	That's Islamophobia!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u126	... died during the construction of stadiums and mega-infrastructures for the world football championship—of repeated and shocking violations of human rights, of disrespect for the rights of women and minorities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u127	That's Islamophobia!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u128	... in a regime which has no link or commitment to human rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u129	Is it Islamophobic?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u130	from the point of view of the Left Block, no authority and no sovereignty agency should travel to Qatar and be represented in this world, because in doing so it is legitimizing this regime, which needs the championship for that legitimacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u131	Xenophobic!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u132	That would be the minimum and necessary signal from our point of view that human rights are not a detail and should not be placed between parentheses during the world period. We therefore voted against the displacement of Mr President of the Republic and proposed that the President of the Assembly of the Republic should not be to the world of Qatar and that Parliament should recommend to the Government that the Prime Minister should not be to this world of shame either. Neither the President of the Assembly of the Republic, nor the President of the Republic, nor the Prime Minister will go to Qatar to play football, yes, in political representation. So it is a political judgment that we do here today is a political judgment on how the Portuguese State stands with regard to what is happening in Qatar and what has happened for this world to take place. We believe that the minimum that the Portuguese State should do is a unequivocal condemnation of the violation of human rights, which is also not to be represented in this world. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u133	For a statement of vote on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The position of the Liberal Initiative on this trip by the President of the Republic and other Portuguese dignitaries to Qatar is already well known. Since Friday, we have become public, through social communication, our position against this journey. We believe that Mr. President of the Republic should not travel to Qatar because this world championship is being used by the regime of that country as a geopolitical tool for international validation of a credibility that it does not have. We are talking about a regime that brutally fails human rights, and the Portuguese Constitution — those that are the values of Portugal as a country — is based on respect for human rights, so our President cannot go to make this validation. likewise, the international community cannot close its eyes, as it did when the world championship took place in Russia, after the invasion of Crimea. If the Liberal Initiative were broken, then it would have been consistent and assumed the position it now has in relation to Qatar, because we are not hypocrites and we are consistent. We have also voted against, for quite similar reasons, the travels of Mr President of the Republic to Angola — both! We did not do as some, who at first voted in favour and second, because they saw that others voted against the first, already voted against,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ... having made a statement of vote saying that the vote against was because Mr. President of the Republic traveled a lot and spent a lot of money,... [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] ... to then vote in favour of the trip to Ireland...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u135	And they went there too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u136	...and now stay away, reminding those who smoke, but don't inhale. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] Hypocrisy isn't here on this bench, it's, perhaps, on the bench on my left side. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u137	Pure demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u138	For an oral vote, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the Portuguese Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic, or not, votes for the agreement in the absence of S. Ex. Mr. President of the Republic of the national territory, do so with a constitutional credentials under Article 163 ( b ). the, which also has Article 129 ( 1 ) as a mirror. the, which determines that the President of the Republic cannot be absent from the national territory without the consent — the word is 'assent' — of Parliament. These norms we found in the Constitution were drinking from the first Constitution, the one of 1822, that we now celebrate the two hundred years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u140	Speak a lot without saying anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u141	... that at the time in Article 125. the, determined that the king could not leave the national territory if he did not have that announcement, under the penalty of having to abdicate. The clear dividing line between sovereign bodies and that which is the political option, the political will, of S. Ex. the President of the Republic should not be confused with the terms in which we interpret this Article 163. o
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u142	And the President of the Assembly of the Republic? And the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u143	The way the Assembly of the Republic has been, since 1976,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u144	Ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u145	... has interpreted this article and this notice, this consent, is that the departure of the President of the Republic of the national territory does not call into question the normal functioning of the institutions and therefore more than reasons for foreign policy or international relations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u146	Say something!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u147	... these are matters of operation of the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u148	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u149	Parliament does not set itself up to guarantee the political options for travel and international relations of the President of the Republic... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u150	...and we did not mix our task...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u151	And the President of the Assembly of the Republic? And the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u152	... with the legitimate political options — which may be more or less critical — which are of the sole political responsibility of His Excellency the President of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This parliamentary group does not consider that this trip is more or less worthy of having voted in favour of this agreement. Our position is institutional in the defence of the democratic regime which was born in 1974 on 25 April. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u153	For an oral vote, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this statement on the vote on the draft resolution on the moving of the President of the Republic to Qatar, we would like to reaffirm now what we have already said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this matter. We believe that, by its nature, sport carries values of cooperation and solidarity among peoples, values that are particularly significant in sporting events on an international scale. Let it be clear that the CFP condemns the unacceptable exploitation of workers in Qatar, subject to intolerable conditions, inhumane, in which their rights are not respected, as well as the rights in general are not respected. In addition to this consideration, the CFP considers that the unequivocal expression of the defence of rights may take on different dimensions and must not go through boycott actions to the sporting participation of athletes or teams or to their institutional follow-up, as is the case with the participation of the national selection in the world of football. Therefore, the CFP did not oppose the move of the President of the Republic to Qatar, and it is important to bear in mind that this decision follows a request from the President of the Republic, in accordance with our Constitution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u155	The Bureau records more requests for speech. I believe that Mr António Topa Gomes intends to indicate that he will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u156	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u157	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Miguel Rodrigues, are you asking for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u158	Yes, Mr President, I will also hand over a written vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Eduardo Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u159	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Anastácio, is it also to announce the delivery of a written statement of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u160	Yes, Mr. President, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr. Diogo León and Mr. Maria Begonha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u161	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. In the meantime, Mr Alexandre Poço also indicated that he would deliver a written statement of vote, as well as Mrs Maria João Castro. The gentlemen. Members who wish to submit written explanations of vote shall do so as to indicate now. [[Pause.]] They're all indicated. The Bureau shall also record requests for speech for oral explanations of vote submitted by the two single Members. The reading I make of Articles 87. o is 155. the Rules of Procedure lead me to conclude that oral explanations of vote are the prerogative of parliamentary groups. Like the ladies. Members who are part of the Conference of Leaders know, I understand that the Rules of Procedure are an aid to our political debate. So if there is any parliamentary group that opposes giving the floor to the Members. Members alone to make oral explanations of vote in this instance, they cannot do so. If no parliamentary group is opposed, and all opinions are properly expressed, I will give the floor to the honourable Members. Only Members. Does any parliamentary group oppose this decision? [[Pause.]] No parliamentary group is opposed. So, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I give you the floor, asking for your consent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u162	Mr President, that is not the interpretation we make of the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 87. , paragraph 1, but we respect this House, which is sovereign. With regard to our declaration of oral vote... [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] I have listened carefully to the other parliamentary groups, therefore, of course, to thank all political forces for the use of the word. Portugal is a state of democratic law, a sovereign republic based on a fundamental principle, that of human dignity. In Catar, the most basic human rights rights, particularly those of women, of the LGBTI community ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and intersex) and, as recently appeared to the public throughout these times, also of the workers who died in the works performed, have not been respected. Therefore, the NAP could never follow with a favourable vote the President of the Republic to Qatar, as well as not follow the wishes of H.E. the President of the Assembly of the Republic and the Prime Minister to go to Qatar. Portugal has a legacy of respect for human rights that should not be neglected in any way: we abolish the death penalty, we have an inclusive society that seeks to take a path of respect for women's rights and other fundamental rights. in this sense, what the entire international community should do at this time was show a red card to Qatar, because human rights cannot at any time be alienable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u163	For an oral vote, under the conditions described above, I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President, and all the parliamentary committees. In fact, if it were not a declaration of vote, I would have asked the Bureau to request that draft resolution No 284 / XV / 1 be distributed. a (L) — Because of the condemnation of human rights violations in Qatar and the organization of the 2022 football world, since this issue is of such interest. The Free gave up this project not because it decided, on Friday, what was its position, but because it already presented approved projects of similar content, in the City Hall of Lisbon and in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, many weeks and up to months before the realization of the 2022 world, in the Catar. in the same way, we did not discover that we were anti-Putin on February 24th—we were already before and we were already when the world was in Russia. [[CH protests.]] Therefore, in line with this draft resolution — which we hope will be debated here and which also gives consistency to those who expressed themselves in the explanations of vote we have just heard — we could not fail to vote against this move by Mr President of the Republic. This is the first time we have done so, because we respect the autonomy of the sovereignty body that Mr President of the Republic is on his own. We believe, however, that a visit within a state-to-state relationship, or a visit to be present at a funeral of a head of State in a Portuguese-speaking country...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u165	Former Head of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u166	... or former Head of State. I was saying that these visits have nothing to do with going to a football world championship. Our position does not mean just condemning human rights violations in Qatar — unfortunately, there are human rights violations in all countries of the world. However, of what I have not heard here, and that it is necessary to condemn, more than human rights violations, was corruption in FIFA (International Football Federation), which chose Qatar for the realization of the world, choosing what we know today was made in light of the day. [[Congrats from PS MP Alexandra Leitão and Isabel Alves Moreira.]] [[CH protests.]] We must condemn the corruption that led to football federations, like Portuguese, voting for a world championship that we did not decide that it was done in Qatar. However, when we go to Catar, we are being complicit in a decision that we all know was corrupt.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u167	We shall now proceed to the vote on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. [[CH protests and L-protests.]] As soon as there are conditions for this, I will give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha. [[CH protests and L-protests.]] I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are speaking clearly and ostensibly disrespectful not by me, but by our way of proceeding. We are in the voting period, in which no intervention is legitimate, except those which proceed with regard to the voting procedure. Therefore, I now give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to present the opinions of the 14. the Commission, which we will have to vote now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. The request of the Central Court of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon - Judge 1, Case No 1578 / 15.0T9BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members gave an opinion to authorize Mrs Gabriela Fonseca ( PSD ) to give written testimony as a witness in the context of the attached cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u169	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u170	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the County of Madeira - Judge of Criminal Instruction of Funchal, Case No. 228 / 21.0T9FNC, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies delivered an opinion to authorize Mr. Carlos Pereira ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u172	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office — Procurator's Office of the Republic of the Comarca de Setúbal - DIAP - 2. the Section of Setúbal, Case No 76 / 21.7PBSTB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr André Ventura ( CH ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u174	Mr. President and Mr. Members, finally, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa - Juiz Local Criminal de Lisboa - Juiz 13, Case No 1404 / 21.0T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr André Ventura ( CH ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the rules of law and on the articles and amendments which have been discussed in plenary. I wonder if any Member or Member has not been able to register at the first moment of the vote. Mr. Tiago Brandão Rodrigues signaled the Bureau to register now?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u176	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u177	the same way, the gentlemen. Mr. João Barreiras Duarte ( PSD ) and Mr. Fernando José ( PS ) and Mrs. Eunice Pratas ( PS ) asked for registration. I ask again: is there any Member or Member who has not been able to register and has not heard my words before, wishing to point out his presence at the moment? It's now or never. [[Laughing.]] All right, it's all recorded, let's start our votes. Let us begin with the vote on the proposal 631 - C of the PSD, adding a Article 23. o-D — Access to law and courts. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] Let us now vote on Article 30. o — Recruitment of workers in municipalities in a situation of sanitation or rupture. We shall vote together in paragraph 1, points (a ), (b ), (c ), (d) and (e), the body of paragraph 2 and paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this article of the bill. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD and CH were adopted, votes against BE and abstentions against IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 427 - C, of the CH, for the addition of Article 32. o -A — Safety force risk supplement. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the CH and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We continue with the vote on the proposal 1359 - C of the PS to add an article 43. o-B — Study and evaluation of the cost and implementation of a contingency plan at Madeira International Airport - Cristiano Ronaldo. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal 1346 - C of the PS, adding a Rule 47. o-C — Public higher education institutions in autonomous regions. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstentions of the PSD, the CH and the CFP.]] We turn to Article 53. o — Obligations assumed by municipalities in the process of decentralization of competences. Let us begin with the vote on the proposal 1601 - C of the CH to delete Article 53. o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against PS, IL, PAN and L, votes in favour of CH and abstentions from PSD, PCP and BE.]] [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have many votes and there is no problem in making an exception to the « lifted / seated », but the expression of the vote must be clear to the Bureau and to all. I assume that we can now vote together on points ( a) and ( b) and the body of paragraph 1 as well as Article 53 ( 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS were adopted against the CH and the PCP and abstentions from PSD, IL, BE, PAN and L.]] Let us now vote on Article 54. o — Funds available and institutions with late payments in the local subsector. Mrs Paula Santos asks for the floor, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u178	Mr President, I wanted to help with the conduct of the work. of our part, we only wanted to vote separately on Article 54 ( 7 ). o
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u179	All right, having no objection or any other proposal, we shall vote together the first six issues of this Article 54. the, from paragraph 1 to paragraph 6. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the PCP and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L were adopted.]] We continue to vote on Article 54 ( 7 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS and CH, votes against the PCP and abstentions to PSD, IL, BE, PAN and L.]] We are now voting together on points (a) and (b) and on the body of Article 8(8). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the PCP and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L were adopted.]] We turn to Article 55. o — Reduction of late payments. Let us begin by voting together on paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this article. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, CH and PAN were adopted, votes against BE and abstentions from PSD, IL, PCP and L.]] We shall now vote on proposal 598 - C of the CH, adding paragraph 5 to Article 55. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] Let us vote on Article 56. o — Payment to concessionaires arising from judicial or arbitral decisions or rescue of concession contracts. Mrs Paula Santos asks for the floor, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u180	Mr President, in this article, we wanted to vote separately on paragraph 1 ( b ) and also paragraph 8 ( 8 ). on our part, these two can be voted together and then the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u181	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u182	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u183	Mr President, we want to vote separately on paragraphs 2 and 3, 4 and 5 of this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u184	All right. So let's do a step-by-step exercise. We shall vote on Article 56 ( a) ( 1 ). o [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS and L and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE and PAN.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraph 1 (b) of this Article. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the L, votes against the CFP and abstentions against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP.]] I ask whether we can vote together on the body of paragraph 1 and points (a) and (b) and the body of Article 56 (2). the, because I do not think it makes much sense to separate the voting body from the points. [[Pause.]] With no objection, logic prevails. So let's vote them. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, CH and L and abstentions of PSD, IL, PCP, BE and PAN were adopted.]] We shall vote jointly on Article 56 (3) to (6). o
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u185	Mr President, we have asked to separate paragraph 3 from paragraphs 4 and 5. Only paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 can be together.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u186	All right, Mr. Deputies. We have to vote one at a time. We shall proceed to the vote on Article 56 ( 3 ). o [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] We now vote on paragraph 4 of the same article. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS and L and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE and PAN.]] We continue with the vote on paragraph 5 of this Article. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] We then vote on Article 56 (6) and (7). o [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the L, against the CH and abstentions of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP were adopted.]] We shall now vote on Article 56 ( 8 ). o [[The vote was taken by votes to the PS and the PAN, against the CH and the PCP and with abstentions from the PS, IL, BE and L.]] Let us turn to Article 58. o — Decentralisation Fund and financial transfers under decentralization and delegation of powers. I ask whether we can vote together on points (a) to (d) and the body of paragraph 1, the map of paragraph 2 and paragraphs 2 to 10 of this Article.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u187	Mr President, the President asks us to vote separately until paragraph 2 and then Article 3 to 6.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u188	All right. We shall therefore vote together on points ( a) to (d) and the body of paragraph 1, the map of Article 58(2) and (2). o [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and L were adopted against the PCP and BE and abstentions from the PSD, CH, IL and PAN.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 58 ( 3 ) to ( 6 ). o [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the CH and the L, against the PCP and the BE and abstentions from the PSD, IL and the NAP.]] We continue with the vote on Article 58 ( 7 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the L, votes against the CH, the PCP and the BE and abstentions to the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] The vote on paragraph 8 of this Article shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against the PS, CH, IL and the NAP were adopted.]] We then vote together on paragraphs 9 and 10 of this Article. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the CH and the L, against the PCP and the BE and abstentions from the PSD, IL and the NAP.]] Then the gentlemen. Members have to send me a small remuneration for this technical advice which I am giving to various parliamentary groups. [[PS laughter.]] We shall vote on proposal 1006 - C of the PSD to add Article 58 ( 11 ) and ( 12 ). o [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We proceed with the vote on proposal 1066 - C of the PSD, adding Article 58. o -A — Assessment of seismic vulnerability and strengthening of the Financing Fund for Decentralisation. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We turn to Article 59. o — Financial aid and technical and financial cooperation. We begin with the vote on paragraph 1 of this Article. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN, votes against the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CH, the PCP and the L.]] I ask whether we can vote together on points (a), (b) and (c) and the body of paragraph 2 of this Article. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for them. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the PAN, against the IL and the PCP, and abstentions to the PSD and the L.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal 1373 - C of the PS for the addition of new Article 59 (3) and (4). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE and the NAP, votes against the CH and abstentions of the IL, the CFP and the L.]] We shall vote on Article 59 ( 3 ). o [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, having approved a proposal to add a new paragraph 3 to Article 59. the question of whether or not we should repeat this vote. The technical answer is: we must repeat, because we have to authorize renumbering, in the powers we have. in this case, we shall authorise and vote on Article 59 ( 3 ). o [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L, against the IL and with abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We moved on to Article 60. o — Municipal Emergency Fund. We begin by voting on proposal 1056 - C of the PSD amending Article 60 ( 1 ). o [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We jointly vote on Article 60 ( 1 ) to ( 4 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL and the CFP were adopted.]] The vote on Rule 62 shall follow. o — Urgent and unsatisfied expenditure. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 63. o — Settlement of Polis companies. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the PAN and the L and with abstentions of the CH, the IL and the BE.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 66. o — Budget forecast of revenue from the municipalities resulting from the sale of buildings. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and votes against IL.]] Article 67 is hereby followed. o — Loans from municipalities for housing and urban rehabilitation operations. I wonder if we can vote together on paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u189	Mr President, we call for a separate vote on paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u190	All right. First we vote on Article 67 ( 1 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CFP and the IL, and abstentions against the PSD and the CH.]] The joint vote on Article 67 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) shall follow. o [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, CH, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and IL and abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 68. o — EIB line PT 2020 - Authorities. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the PAN and the L and with abstentions of the PSD, the IL and the BE.]] The vote on Rule 69 shall follow. o — Transfer of resources from the municipalities to the parish, and we vote on the map and article at the same time. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the IL and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]] We shall vote on Rule 70. o — Deduction of transfers to local authorities. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH and PAN and IL, PCP, BE and L abstentions.]] We turn to Article 71. o — Agreements on the regularization of debts of local authorities. Let us begin by voting on the proposal 362 - C1, in the part in which it amends paragraph 1 of this article. [[When put to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the PS and the IL.]] We are now voting on proposal 406 - C of the CFP, in the part in which it amends paragraph 1 of that article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] The vote was followed by the vote on proposal 545 - C of the PSD Members Sérgio Marques, Sara Madruga da Costa and Patrícia Dantas, amending Article 71 ( 1 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the NAP and the L and abstentions from the CH, the CFP and the BE.]] We shall vote on Article 71 ( 1 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We shall vote jointly on Article 71 ( 2 ) to ( 9 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the BE and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L were adopted.]] We voted for proposal 362 - C2, of the CH, in the part in which Article 71 ( 10 ) is deleted. o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 406 - C of the CFP, in the part in which Article 71 ( 10 ) is amended. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We turn to the vote on Rule 71 ( 10 ). o [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the BE, votes against the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 406 - C of the CFP, in the part in which Article 71 ( 11 ) is amended. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on Article 71 ( 11 ). o [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, CH, BE and L and abstentions to PSD, IL, CCP and NAP.]] The vote on paragraph 12 of that Article shall follow. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the BE and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 406 - C of the CFP, in the part in which Article 71 ( 13 ) is amended. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on Article 71 ( 13 ). o [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the BE and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] The vote on Rule 72 shall follow. o — Increase in the margin of indebtedness. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the NAP.]] Finally, for today, we shall vote on proposal 1671 - C of the CFP, adding a Rule 76. o -A — Update of pensions. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the IL, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We move on to point 3 of our agenda, which is the continuation of the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 38 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2023. Mr. André Ventura is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u191	Mr President, it is just to say that I cannot register, but that I am present.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u192	All right. Mr. André Ventura did not register, but he is present. Mr Pedro do Carmo is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u193	Mr President, I am also present and cannot register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u194	Mr. Ricardo Lima is asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u195	Yes, Mr. President. It's exactly the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u196	Mr Manuel dos Santos Afonso is also asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u197	Yes, Mr. President. I couldn't register, but I'm here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u198	The gentlemen. Members will note that I am using that diplomatic formula of whom I said "I took note" but that does not mean I wear it. Let us then begin the debate on our point 3. I would like to pay more attention to the honourable Members and to the honourable Members. Members who want to participate in the debate and those who do not want to ask that they try to cause the least discomfort to their colleagues. For ruling on Article 88. o — Granting of loans and other active operations, Mr Sérgio Ávila, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u199	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the reduction of public debt is a key vector of the government's strategy. In fact, next year's budget allows for a further reduction in public debt, which fell from 125 % over two years to 110, 8 % of gross domestic product. More important and relevant than that, according to the European Commission, Portugal will in the short term have a lower public debt than that of Spain, France and Belgium. Despite this, the reduction of public debt is not a medal, it does not only mean that it is a percentage or numerical competition. The reduction of public debt is indeed a necessity of the country, because the options are clear: either we want to have less public debt and less public debt charges, or we want to have more public debt and consequently more public debt charges, or we want to reduce public debt to have more resources for pensions, wages, public investment and social support. This is at the heart of the question we are discussing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal will have at the end of this year a public debt of EUR 288 billion. The change in a percentage point of the public debt will represent, in the total refinancing of that debt, an increase in charges which is significantly related to the financial effort we will make next year to increase the pensions and salaries of the Public Administration. The reduction of public debt is therefore essential, and it is essential to have lower public debt than that of other countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u200	Sir, I'm asking you for one minute. I know that the honourable Member, as a good steelman, resists all weather,... [[PS laughter.]] ...but there's a lot of movement in the hall. Of course, we all know that there must also be conversations between us in the plenary, but they must be held at an acceptable sound level. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u201	As I said, Portugal has been able this year to finance at least 10 basis points vis-à-vis Spain, which will entail, in the total refinancing of public debt, a savings corresponding to the financing that the Budget only provides for the increase in family allowance and the reduction of 23 % to 21 % of IRS. On the other hand, by the end of next year, this savings that we have obtained by having a lower interest rate than Spain will correspond to a full funding of IRS Youth enlargement, the reduction of IRS for families with more than two children and the extension of family allowances. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In other words, reducing public debt is not a statistical issue. It is an issue that has an impact and enables the future to continue to support pensions and increase public investment with sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u202	Then increase your pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u203	That's why some more right-wing opposition...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u204	That's it! But on the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u205	... has a problem with reducing public debt: you lost the narrative! It was the opposition that said the government's options would lead to the degradation of public finances. The fact is that Portugal is reducing public debt and will have lower levels than many other countries, something that has never been thought to be achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u207	But this government also ended with the narrative of the right opposition when it said that this government and its options had no international credibility. The fact is that, in the last three months, three rating agencies have improved the rating of Portuguese public debt, contrary to that narrative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of these facts and this reality, the opposition changed its narrative and began to say that the reduction of public debt was made at the expense of more tax revenues. The fact is that next year public debt will fall and tax revenue on GDP will fall 0.5 percentage points, contrary to that same narrative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The same opposition said that, after all, the reduction of public debt was based on the reduction of public investment. The fact is that next year public debt will reduce and public investment will increase by 36 % — plus EUR 2400 million. They went on to say that the reduction of public debt was made at the cost of holding the salaries of the Public Administration. The fact is that next year public debt will fall and public service salaries will increase by EUR 1420 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]] Then, and without arguments, this opposition began to say that the reduction of public debt was not sustainable. The fact is that next year we will reduce public debt. In addition, we have made a historic agreement with the social partners at the end of 23 years that ensures social cohesion and that these rights and benefits will be multi-annual at the end of four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u208	At the end of 10 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u209	That is to say, we have reduced public debt and ensured sustainability to guarantee rights, incomes and wages in the medium term for Portuguese. In the face of all these facts, we have an opposition in zyguezague, without arguments, without direction and without strategy, because it is an unalternative opposition which settled its analysis of the Budget on a basis which was totally disassembled with the reality of the facts and with the truth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u210	To intervene on Article 95. o — Maximum limits for the granting of guarantees have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, disappointment: the first day of voting was a disappointment for the Madeirans, who, regardless of the parties, still believed that this government was autonomous and was available to resolve the numerous pending cases. After all, the much-needed dialogue and commitment with Madeira is more than that, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen in the constitutional review and now with the vote against the PS at more than 24 — I repeat, more than 24! — proposals for amendments. But worse, ladies and gentlemen. Members : they have not limited themselves to plumbar, they have approved a proposal that provides an unacceptable discriminatory treatment between the University of Madeira and the Azores, having approved a reinforcement of funds for the Azores and zero for Madeira. This situation, as we intend to correct now, is unacceptable because it makes no sense that Madeira cannot be financed under the same conditions as the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that this and other proposals continue to fall. After all, it's the PS compressor roll working against Madeira! But the Madeirans are not distracted, they will not forget and the PSD will have your answer soon! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u212	To intervene on Article 100. o — Financing of housing and urban rehabilitation, has the floor of Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the State Budget for 2023, housing is again one of the great marks of reform and public investment in our country and one of the priorities of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. This is a Budget that combats all forms of exclusion, discrimination or inequality and housing is no exception, because the structural and prolonged crisis we live in housing lacks reforms that alter the paradigm of inertia, de-investment and abandonment of housing to a market that has come back for decades and that, having ended with the PS, continues to make its victims. This reform deserves, as we know, the most violent opposition by part of this House, which wants the State not to put obstacles to market freedom, that the State choose a culture of privilege and simple reproduction of wealth and inequality, which does not fall under the Housing Bases Act and a new generation of policies that came to create the 1. the right to eliminate situations of shortage and housing indignity throughout the country. The 1st. the law has already given or will give a decent home to thousands of families and treats the right to home as any other good transactionable. The right of this Chamber is therefore not seen in another budget that expands and develops the social state. This is not a debate on sides and trenches which, in primary terms, choose between owners and tenants, between protecting economic activity and having access to housing. This is the debate of the State Budget for 2023 where it reflects the government's choice to invest and continue to carry out the greatest expansion of the public housing park ever held in democracy, which is the only real reform capable of combating the unbearable prices of housing and speculation, maintaining the dynamic market, generating an alternative accessible to indebtedness and developing the country as a whole socially and economically. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party choose to present a set of proposals to improve the response to access to housing, eliminating inequalities in access to credit, strengthening support for displaced students and younger generations, in addition to the huge reinforcement of 7 million euros that the Porta 65 Programme receives in this Budget, thus benefiting thousands of young people, but also acting with balance and sense of justice on imbalance and injustice that proliferation of local housing, without restrictions or limitations, has caused access to housing. On a proposal from the PS, municipalities can better protect their communities and fight for returning the right to the city in areas particularly affected by tourist pressure, through the worsening of the IMI (municipal property tax) for local housing and real estate funds and continuing to suspend new local housing records to combat the supply crisis and access to rent. As this is a Budget that combats all forms of exclusion, inequality and discrimination, which does not exclude the middle class and mitigates and acts on the inequality that young people live to have home, this parliamentary group also proposes a greater and better regulation of the market, because it values the social function of property to the detriment of a vision of exclusion and discrimination that represents segregation between populated centers for whom it can and is peripheral to those who can no longer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u214	To intervene on the proposal of Article 100. o - A — Limits the variation of the rate of effort in the credit to housing, has the word Mrs Mariana Mortágua of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 90 % of housing credit contracts are associated with a variable interest rate. It does not matter whether the interest rate is 0, 75 %, or 1 %, or 2 %, what matters is that, whenever the interest rate increases, the monthly benefit also rises 50 €, 80 €, 100 € and rises far beyond the holder for those who already pay light, for those who pay gas, for those who pay their supermarket account. Two months ago, the government said right here that it was against the idea of forcing banks to renegotiate credits. After that, the government has been engaged in promises that have not yet been realized. So, what we propose is a simple system of compulsory restructuring of housing credits, which protects not only those who are at risk of losing their homes, but anyone who is confronted with an increase in the rate of effort above 2 percentage points. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u216	To intervene on the proposal of Article 105. Mr José Silvano has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has always been concerned with the fight against regional asymmetries and with the adoption of positive discrimination measures within the country. To this end, he presented a number of proposals ranging from the creation of a specific programme for the interior to the reduction of the price of tolls. This proposal demonstrates the difference in political ambition within the country between the government and the PSD. The Government and the PS, always in election campaign, promised to abolish some tolls, as the Prime Minister said, in 2015 — words that were still on television recently — and Mrs. Minister of Cohesion in 2021, at Castelo Branco. Seven years have passed and they have not fulfilled what they promised. It is appropriate to state, contrary to what the leader of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group said, that the word was not always honored by this government. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD submitted a proposal, which entered into force in 2021, to reduce the cost of tolls by 50 % for all vehicles and 75 % for electric vehicles. Once again, the government failed to comply because the reduction it applied was only about 30 %. The PSD only wants the Government to comply with this 50 % reduction for all vehicles and 75 % for electric vehicles. The Government must comply with what this House approved in the previous budget. in this case, it will not only be positively discriminating the interior, but thus balancing the whole territory. This is the defense of the true national interest. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u218	Tell the Government what you want, but only the PSD can reduce — and it has managed to reduce — the cost of tolls and only the PSD presents in this Budget a new proposal to continue this reduction. Therefore, the Prime Minister, instead of being concerned about avoiding the rise of tolls with 10 % of inflation, should be, as the PSD is, concentrated on its effective reduction. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u219	To intervene on Article 106. o — Training contracts within the framework of the World Youth Day 2023, Mr João Azevedo of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State budget for 2023 provides for the government to make a strong investment in infrastructure and housing. It is more than EUR 800 million of investment representing 40 % increase compared to last year. According to the opinion of the Council of Public Finance, this proposal for a State budget has the highest value of gross fixed capital formation at a global value of EUR 8618 million, representing 3, 5 % of GDP. In the last 12 years, this has been the largest public investment we have had in Portugal. Investments that mirror the infrastructure budget programme support five important pillars in terms of investments in territories and people. We have the railroad. There is a revolution in the railway network, where, since 1856, there has not been an investment as high as is happening in Portugal : the south, the International Corridor and the continuation of the new line between Évora and Elvas ; the electrification of the West Lines, the Algarve and the interventions in the Cascais Line ; in the center and north, the modernization of the High Beira Line, and for those who say that it is in fact stopped, it was important for them to see the construction and rehabilitation of it on the spot; in the north, the modernization of the line between Espinho and Gaia. These are some of the examples of investment in rail — the revolution of the last 100 years! On the road up to 2026, there are more than 600 million euros of investment. And there are many examples : Maia, Trofa, Santana ; Castelo Branco up to the border; in the new areas of business location, Viseu, Ansião, Santo Tirso, Felgueiras, Rio Maior, Campo Maior, among others ; the duplication of the IP3, the launch of the contest between Viseu and Santa Comba Don will represent a road axis with the profile of the motorway without tolls; in telecommunications and digital connectivity, the example of the system of underwater cables of electronic communications; in port infrastructures, maritime accessibility to the port of Setúbal and the extension of the sea of Legions are paradigmatic examples of investment in Portuguese ports; in housing, the continuity of programme 1. the law, the continuity of the public housing park at affordable costs and the rehabilitation of the housing park of the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana). This budget proposal leaves the oppositions without arguments and no alternatives, because they have always claimed that the improvement of public accounts would be made at the cost of delaying public investment. This budget proves otherwise: it is possible to reconcile debt reduction, increase social support and increase public investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u221	To intervene on Article 108. o — Residential assistants in the technical-military cooperation actions, Mr Pedro Pessanha, of the Czech Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u222	Mr. President, I welcome you. Members of the Government and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In recent decades, the Armed Forces have been and have been subjected to a brutal disinvestment. This situation is so serious that several military associations have already claimed that they are beginning to question their own operationality and even the existence of the Armed Forces. The demonstration of last Saturday, in a protest in which no one from the Prime Minister's office had the dignity of receiving his representatives, is more than a sign of despair of those who, men and women, have sworn to defend Portugal, even at the expense of their own lives. [[Congrats from the CH.]] National defence cannot continue to be one of the poor relatives of the State budget, where it is cut, where it is taken, or simply does not invest, because they judge the various socialist governments that others will take up our security and defence when it is put in question. But no, ladies and gentlemen, there is no void in the defence and, when the Portuguese State gives up national sovereignty, other States fill this void, with fatal consequences for Portugal's decision-making capacity in defending what remains of its sovereignty and, above all, its independence. My gentlemen, for all this, it becomes more than obvious that an increase in the resources allocated to the National Defence is fundamental. Thus, it is suggested that the objective of the NATO allies ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) should devote 2 % of GDP to the National Defence, be effectively achieved next year ; this objective has already been achieved by several members of the Atlantic Alliance, in a clear sign of responsibility and solidarity for collective security, contrary to this State budget. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u223	Mr Pinto Moreira, from the PSD, now has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the humanitarian associations of firefighters and the Portuguese firefighters constitute the backbone of our civil protection system and there is therefore a need to recognize the performance of their noble mission through concrete proposals. But in this State budget for 2023, humanitarian associations are suffocated. The planned funding does not, at least, accompany the inflation that we well know is underestimated. The PSD proposes strengthening its permanent funding to address the inflationary impact that has a direct impact on the increase in operational costs, including in fuel, wages and equipment. Then firefighters are ignored and disregarded by this government, particularly those who have suffered serious accidents in the exercise and because of their duties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u225	The PSD therefore proposes the allocation of the blood price pension to firefighters who have acquired an absolute and permanent incapacity for work, which is not provided for under their respective legal regime or the Social Statute of the Firefighter. Humanitarian associations and Portuguese firefighters deserve it. And they deserve, above all, better treatment by this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u226	Mrs Emília Cerqueira from the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the cases of suspicion will happen in this government, Minister after Minister, Secretary of State after Secretary of State, launching an anathema over the whole political class, creating in people, that every day they will see the news entering their homes, the idea that the whole political class is corrupt, living in a climate of impunity above law and justice. Dangerous times, these we live in. It is imperative that this idea be combated and that this climate of suspicion be prevented which spreads like a virus to the whole political class. This fight begins through an effective scrutiny, by the Transparency Entity, of political agents, regarding their incompatibilities and impediments to the exercise of office, which may have prevented cases such as that of Pedro Nuno Santos or Miguel Alves. It happens that the Transparency Entity, created, indeed, for years, reminds the famous Centre of Cross-border Exhibitions of Way, which does not pass from a mirage. Since 2019 the Government has postponed, year after year, its installation and the creation of conditions for its operation. I'm sorry for your apology! The PSD was neither complicit nor complicit in this situation. Therefore, once again, he makes a proposal for the Transparency Entity to leave the paper and be a reality, once and for all, requiring the Government — through our proposal — to make up to 1. the quarter of 2023, provisional facilities for its operation while the works are running for its final installation in the Gryos Palace, Coimbra. It is an urgent step, even because democracy has no price and is in danger of all these situations. Is the PS with us or, again, will you bury your head in the sand and keep everything in the same state of things?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u228	For an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u229	Mr President, allow me, in your person, to health all colleagues and, in the person of the Minister, to health all Secretaries of State. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a note to be given. There is a practice in the budgetary discussion that goes through the PSD to speak on a compressor roll to realise, of course, that the only compression is that they have no proposal to do, which was, in fact, shaped in this last intervention, a quite creative casting, say.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u230	No, no! There, there! We made a proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u231	For us, it's no suspicion! We know, exactly and rightly, that what oppresses the PSD is the fact that these benches have strength, the force of ideas, the force of the fulfillment of the word, which is an uncomfortable manifest for VV. Ex. [[PSD protests.]] There's another note that's important. There is talk of arrogance, of disappointment with the votes, but still yesterday the PS has validated a set of proposals, from our left to our right, proving that, to the PSD, the imagination that is lacking in proposals is not missing in accusations. [[PSD, CH and BE Mariana Mortágua protests.]] But it's about community funds that I want to talk to you about. With regard to this matter, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I am very pleased to tell you that in the estimates of the State budget for 2023 we have a very substantial growth, a growth of 68 %, which gives us, in fact, guarantee — and it must be said with all conviction — of the following: what has been done with PT2020 ( Portugal 2020 ) has to be even the compassion with which we will continue to implement the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and the PT2030 ( Portugal 2030 ). Because, contrary to what our oppositions say—even with the haunted face of Mrs Mariana Mortagua, who does not seem to understand or do not want to understand what I am saying—the truth is that Portugal does well. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] I will repeat: Portugal runs well, we are proud to run well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I wanted to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a remarkable fact: it was in this Parliament that it was in this House in a number of debates which, from arriving to the Left Block, the portal of transparency was required. And that's where it's shaped what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u232	What about the Transparency Entity?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u233	As much as Mrs Mariana Mortágua can break the compass, we do well and execute with rigour. Although there are those who, from the highest instances of the state to the most ruthless parliamentary participations, want to exchange the destination of arrival with the starting point, we know exactly where we are going. It's not worth saying that it's not being fulfilled what has to be executed in 2026 or 2030! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, in a synthetic way, to stress to you one more aspect which seems to me of the greatest importance. We understand the anxiety that we have had to criticize here — which I have already described — but there is one issue that is essential: for those who want to run Community funds, anxiety is not a good counselor. It is not for the opposition either, but my role is not to give advice to the opposition, nor is it necessary to give them to the government, which, in fact, has met with rigour and transparency. I end with this idea, which is fundamental and must be a national consensus: 2023 will be the first year in which we will have the PT2020, the PT2030 and the PRR in force. It is the closing year of the PT2020, it is the year of greater maturation of the PRR and it is the year of opening of the PT2030, and what we are pleased to say, Mr. Minister, to you and all the Secretaries of State, is that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group knows that Portugal runs and executes well. [[PSD and CH laughter.]] So let's keep running and running well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u234	Under Article 115. the proposal for a law to discuss the proposal for an addendum to Article 115. the -A— Single mechanism for access to support by companies and individual entrepreneurs has the floor Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the introduction of Article 115. it seemed to induce that the government would implement reforms with a view to the rapid implementation of the European funds. Wrong! The same is unfortunately summed up by the usual administrative formalities and not by the long-suffering transformation measures. The PSD therefore presents two amendments, placing digitisation at the service of companies. They are: the creation of the single market of the investor, with a view to simplifying the investment procedures; and the strengthening of transparency in the access and use of state and European funds, with the creation of a platform with all the support available and their respective public managers. It is not worth denying it, Mr Pinotes Batista, support or not reaching companies or arriving late, as evidenced by the Court of Auditors' audit of the support covered. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u236	It's time, it's more than business time to stop being the poor relative of the Socialist Party government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u237	To intervene on Article 117. o — National Plan for Accommodation in Higher Education, has the floor Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u238	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, this year, thousands of young people will enter higher education with less than €400 propina and more 25 000 students with scholarship. However, when it comes to accessibility of higher education, one cannot only talk about the tip. Ricardo entered college this year, but gave up because he did not find home; Mary has to work full time to pay a room; Manel has to choose another course closer to home. In higher education there are currently 108 000 students displaced. And how many more RICARDOS? How many more Maneis?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u239	If Ricardo's from the PS, it's easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u240	In recent years, the situation has been as difficult as housing prices have been rising. But more than who governs, Ricardo, Maria, Manuel and perhaps even Ana of the Olives, they are interested in what does who governs. And the PS government is really doing it. Thus the National Plan for Accommodation in Higher Education was born. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] With the PRR, we have already managed EUR 447 million to create almost 12 000 new beds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u241	When?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u242	The projects are approved, the works are on the ground,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u243	...but only those who do not know the residences that exist can devalue the 4000 beds that have already been re-qualified so far or the 6400 that the PRR will rehabilitate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Knowing that building takes time, especially in the public sector, we have taken steps to find short-term alternative solutions, with partnerships with the hotel sector, with the Youth Pousadas. Yes, sir. PSD Members, this is already done in Portugal, with the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u245	But, above all, we are working to strengthen the housing complement. Now, in 2019, students received 130 €, wherever they studied. Next year you will receive double — 260 €! —, reaching €335 in the most expensive cities. This is the difference made by the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But not only did we increase the complement as we strengthen its scope. There are more than 15 000 students who will have access to this supplement, more than twice as many as those who receive it now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u246	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u247	They're far from reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u248	But all this depends on the students finding rooms and gentlemen who pass their receipt. Hence the PS has conceived, in this Budget, the expansion of the Safe Income Programme to student housing. With the PS, from January 1st, municipalities can broker and provide all students accommodation and owners with a secure income without taxes. This is how we are building long-term, medium-term and short-term solutions, structural solutions and faster solutions so that Ricardo, Maria, Manel and all the students displaced have a solution. With PS, higher education progresses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u249	They're far from reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u250	In order to intervene, on the proposal for the addition of Article 117a — Multi-annual student housing contract, Mr Alexandre Poço, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in 2018, had a public network of residences that provided 15 000 beds; over four years we have a public network that provides 15 073 beds. This is the success of the National Plan for Higher Education Housing, which we have just heard: 73 more beds in four years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u252	Now, as to the proposal presented by the PSD in this State budget, we characterize it as the most elementary sense. If we have more than 100 000 students displaced and we have only 15 073 beds available in the public network, what we cannot accept is that, year after year, after the students are placed, in September, October and November—after the school year has already begun, after the students have already moved from town—the government is saying that it is still negotiating with the private sector, with the social sector, with the authorities, with the Movijovem (Youvenil Mobility, Public Responsibility Cooperative), who holds the Youth Pousadas. Therefore, the very concrete proposal we put forward is to ensure this good sense, but also stability for all students, so that, when they apply for higher education and are placed in their institution, they know that the government has negotiated a collective contract in package for the next four years of education, so as to ensure the best prices and the most affordable prices for all those students who want to enter higher education. This proposal, contrary to what is done by the Government, incidentally, seeks to guarantee the essential, i.e., stability for the next four school years, with a contract, so that we do not go through the same situation every year and so that we do not continue every year with the same answer by the Government: to promise 15 000 beds for a date that never comes. Year after year, more and more students cannot attend higher education, abandon it after they have been placed and thus harm future generations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there is any sense on the part of the Socialist Party, I have no doubt that this proposal will be adopted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u253	To speak on the same subject, I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u254	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the issue of accommodation is obviously a cross-cutting concern to this House and is strongly shared by the Government. In fact, it was in this sense that the Government has developed a number of initiatives which have already been widely discussed during the discussion on the speciality of this Budget, but which, in some cases, is worth updating or reiterating. There is a structural dimension in terms of the issue of housing higher education and that is why the National Plan for Housing in Higher Education represents the greatest investment ever, from the point of view of housing in higher education. This investment corresponds not only to the 375 million that were restricted to the RPP, but to which 72 million were added, which add to the value that was initially. This was done, I would say, with all speed: the edit was released; the evaluation was made in about one semester, having ended at the end of July of this year; in August the minutes of the contracts were proposed to the promotional entities; and in early September the first 375 million were signed. And already this week, on National Science Day, the other 72 million will be signed, which shows that this process is indeed moving forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This process is characterized not only by the expansion of capacity, but also by the improvement of the quality of facilities, because only those who do not know many of the facilities can devalue this effort. In other words, the Plan applies not only to what will be added in terms of supply, but also to the significant improvement of conditions. For example, for students with special educational needs, which are a particularly vulnerable group, the National Housing Plan already contains quite demanding measures to ensure that what is built or rehabilitated meets these needs. The Plan will have a development over several years. We already have some residences that will be ready — even last week I had the opportunity to visit the University of Beira Interior, which has a residence that will probably be ready by December. This is because the plan was organized in a way in which they were eligible not only new works, but works that were already in progress. Therefore, during this school year 2022 / 2023, we will not have added capacity, either in terms of rehabilitation, or in terms of new works. But this process will continue and in the meantime, of course, we have to worry about the problems of students displaced this school year and in the coming academic years, while this capacity is not fully available. That is why, in August this year, the Government revised the School Social Action Regulation and increased the social action supplement for displaced students, the housing supplement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u256	That is why, in the discussion in the specialty, Mrs. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education announced, in this Chamber, an extraordinary increase in this housing supplement, because we are in fact concerned and committed to supporting displaced fellow students, who are a particularly vulnerable group, because they have this dual condition: they are stockholders and therefore have their families with a particularly low income level; and they are displaced, so they have an additional cost that adds to the other costs that all other students have. That is also why the Government has continued an effort that already existed, and which has strengthened, of contractualization with private entities in the hotel sector, with social sector entities, to which others have extended, and with Movijovem itself. Part of these agreements already existed. What we have done has been to renew them to make them more attractive to these partners, so that this will lead to an increase in supply, in particular by increasing the accommodation supplement twice, and we hope that this will help to minimize this effort. Therefore, the Government is committed to working on structural solutions, some of which have already been widely discussed here, but also on conjunctural solutions to mitigate. Among the commitments, I would highlight the effort to complete measures that have also emerged on the initiative of this House, such as the residence of Rio Maior.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u257	Welcome!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u258	It doesn't make sense for a building residence to stop and hence the government's willingness to make an additional effort to complete it, because it is clearly a need of the Santarém district. It is a very great need for these students, for a school that has played a huge role in the Town Hall of Rio Major, in an area and in an area that we want to value. Therefore, this corresponds to an effort in many dimensions, which is very important for what I think is a concern of all: that equity is indeed a value from the point of view of access to higher education, and that it is also achieved from the point of view of accommodation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u259	To intervene on Article 118. o — Minimum limit of the value of the tip, the word of Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the payment of tips weighs a lot on the budget of families with students in higher education and also consumes a large portion of the school social action. This is an old policy, which strengthens the policy of tips, reinforces and exposes inequalities and brings social inequalities into the faculties. But it is also an inefficient policy, because it suffocates public higher education, disresponsibles the state of the right to education and promotes the drop-out of many students for reasons that are — they are proven — mainly economic. Therefore, the democratization of higher education means that everyone and everyone can access it as equal, which means, always meant and there was a time when the PS recognized it, that the democratization of higher education involved the end of the tips. Now, the PS does not distinguish itself from the PSD in relation to higher education financing policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u261	Who reduced the propines?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u262	And this leads to the fact that, from the height of its radicality, JS (Socialist Youth) proposes only— imagine! — freezing of propines. But to this crisis there is another crisis, which is that of student accommodation. If Ricardo, Maria and Manel are waiting for the relocation plan they will not have home in September, unless they move to the Beira Interior ; they will not have home in January, unless Mr. Miguel Costa Matos lends them a room in their home. Ricardo, Maria and Manel were left at the mercy of the market by the Socialist Party. And that is why the Left Block presents proposals to mitigate this problem: the end of the tips and the immediate strengthening of the school social action, including for the displaced students. But let us not be mistaken, the Socialist Party's proposals will not solve the problem of student housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u263	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u264	To that end, the State must move ahead with the market in defending the rights of displaced students and in defending the rights of students to housing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u265	Even on the same subject, the accommodation of students, now has the floor Mr Alfredo Maia of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u266	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, the lack of beds in public student homes, with the existence of just over 15 000 beds for more than 108 000 students displaced, is one of the most serious problems in higher education, which the addition of accommodation still does not mitigate. The CFP proposes the extension of this supplement to displaced students, even if they are not recipients of scholarships; an amount of EUR 427 million up to 2026 for the implementation of the National Plan for Higher Education Housing; the allocation of public buildings to the creation of residences; and the establishment of a committee to follow this Plan. On the other hand, the proposal to eliminate propines, rates and emoluments in higher education is highlighted, in addition to amendments to the Stock Exchange Allocation Regulation, in particular the per capita income to be taken into account. The CFP also proposes the resolution of another very serious gap: the hiring of psychologists for educational institutions, at the reason of a technician for every 500 students. Psychological support should also be provided to students of basic and secondary education, with the provision of schools of school psychologists from the framework of the Ministry of Education. In the area of education, it is important to highlight the broad-ranging proposals presented by the CFP to ensure effective equality in schools, of which I stress the freeness of the textbooks, by deepening the free program of school textbooks, launched thanks to the CFP ; changes in the steps of the school social action, with the creation of step C, corresponding to 4. the escalation of family allowance; the guarantee of free meals for all students of compulsory education; the extension of the free distribution of school milk and fruit until the end of compulsory education; and finally, the freeness of study visits, an activity also formative that often discriminates children and young people from poor families or with difficulties. In terms of science, I would like to highlight the measures proposed by the CFP aimed at replacing grants to fellows for participation in congresses, updating research scholarships and integration into the career of scientific research. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u267	To speak on the Learning Recovery Plan, Mr António Cunha, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, the pandemic has accentuated the lack of resources and other factors that have compromised the learning of thousands of students. The work to support schools in monitoring the effects of the pandemic on students' learning involves objectively analyzing the results of their performance and developing more appropriate pedagogical practices to overcome the difficulties detected. This can only be achieved by strengthening a demanding, transparent and independent monitoring that enables regular and systematic analysis of progress achieved. Let us not forget that, in addition to the consequences of the pandemic in learning, we also now have a serious deficit in the learning of these same students because of the lack of teachers, which this government, in seven years, did not know, did not want, nor will it solve. Therefore, the PSD proposes strengthening the funding of Plan 21 23 School +, prolonging the validity of the learning recovery measures developed autonomously by public schools, such as tutoring, support or other, and strengthening the IAVE budget allocation ( Institute of Educational Assessment ), so that by the end of 1. the quarter of 2023, implements an extraordinary process of assessment of the situation and the impacts of recovery measures, and independently can perform this evaluation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u269	To speak on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State of Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, indeed, the problem of learning is something we all need to be committed to and to which we all have to be able to respond. This is why the recovery programme has been created and positive signs have come from schools, positive signs resulting from the investment the government has made in the same programme and, above all, from the denouncing and highly professional work that teachers and other education professionals are developing. We have no doubt that this is a situation that worries everyone and that we certainly have the ability to do more and better. As I say, the signs are positive. It does not recover in half a year what has actually been lost over at least two years, and the most affected were surely the most fragile - it is about these, above all, that the work is being done. In fact, each is affected differently, so the answers we are giving are also due to this diversity of situations and the capacity we have to respond at every moment, and the number of teachers and other education technicians destined for this program is something that satisfies us, and there may be some reinforcement here or there. We are, of course, open to this strengthening by means of concrete situations, always with schools, programmed with schools, proposed by schools, because it is indeed with the schools that this programme should be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u271	To intervene on a proposal for an addendum to Article 120. o-C — Strengthening support for the arts 2023 - 2026, has the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u272	Mr President, the Clara Andermatt Company is symbolic of a competition to support the arts that has left out many consolidated structures, with recognized work. For 30 years we have all been reminded to hear about the Clara Andermatt Company, which has now been out of the biennial competition to support the arts, not for lack of merit, not for lack of scoring, but because the money destined for that modality, at two years, did not arrive to this Company. Like this, many structures, in the five contests already published, were left out. Once again, the government failed and, when it announced that support for the arts would have the greatest reinforcement ever, it did not announce or warn that there would also be a huge number of structures that would be excluded from this support, only because they preferred to compete for the two-year competition instead of competing for the four-year competition. It is necessary and urgent to correct this error in the name of sustainability and the future of the arts and support for the arts in this country. The structures and all those who make culture in this country deserve more respect. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u273	We now refer to Article 121. o — Provisions relating to the financing of vocational education. Mrs Carla Castro, of the Liberal Initiative. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we couldn't leave education out of our priorities. Today we will have proposals which aim again to draw attention to freedom of choice, equality of opportunity and also to the effective use of contracts. First, in relation to simple and development contracts, which make it possible for families, especially those with the most economic difficulties, support combats inequalities and becomes a financing instrument that is sensitive to the needs of students. We would like to know from the outset the number of children covered and, on the one hand, to defend a greater budget allocation for these types of contracts and, on the other, to update the values of contracts. The devaluation of these contracts in pre-school and in basic and secondary education to the most disadvantaged families is a failure and a sign of devaluation of education. We already know that they do not value freedom of choice in the same way and this mechanism in particular of equal opportunities, but at least the value of contracts should be adequate. On the lack of updating values, there is an even more compelling case that we also bring the vote, which is that of cooperation contracts. Cooperation contracts cover students with severe special educational needs who need support that are not available in other schools, and the funds are not updated since 2008. This update is important and in the context of the 2023 budget, where there is a narrative of « families first», especially those most in need, it is difficult to explain this situation. As expected, we could not leave out higher education. In the budget of the previous State, we stressed the urgency of the anticipation of the application process for scholarships, to ensure that candidates had information and early acceptance of the scholarship status, so that they would not have to wait months for the first receipts, a measure that made the difference and that was approved. This year, we again present a proposal that can effectively make the difference to tens of thousands of young people and families. We defend that the national competition for access to public higher education has an anticipation in disseminating its results. Current response times are not justified, much less in a time of computerization. The times changed, the means changed, but the response times did not change. There are several solutions on the table, such as changes in the differentiation of procedures by quotas. Of course, families and young people cannot wait that long and must have enough time to travel to prepare their school year—especially in displaced students, this measure has a strong impact. Let us remember, for example, that in this school year, the disclosure of the results was September 11 and the academic year began the following week. We are talking about finding accommodation, making adaptation to a new life, dealing with anxieties, precipitation, family absenteeisms. The Liberal Initiative considers that it is urgent to shorten the time between the application for higher education and the response of the first phase. The second and third phases will also benefit, and the objective is simple: that placements end before the school year begins. In short, this is a proposal that will effectively make the difference for tens of thousands of young people and families. Without'ses' we will give a clear signal and ask for this proposal to be approved. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u275	To speak on the same subject, Mr António Faria of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the importance of vocational training has never been as evident as it is today, for both those employed and the workers of the organisations themselves. Vocational training is increasingly seen as a factor of excellence in the enhancement of human capital and of organizations themselves, no longer being seen as a second option and being viewed as an essential investment with effective return.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u278	This type of teaching has always been valued in the Government programmes of the Socialist Party, as is a good example of the possibility of entering the higher education of the students of the professional way that they want it. Currently, there is a discrepancy in funding between professional schools with private capital and public capital. While all vocational schools that are not of public capital are financed at 100 %, 85 % of the POCH (Human Capital Operational Programme) and 15 % of the national public participation, provided by the State budget through the budget of social security, in schools with 100 % public capital must be the municipality to support the part of the national counterpart. It is precisely on this path of justice and appreciation that Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group present this amendment proposal, which aims to give justice to professional schools held at 100 % by municipal companies, i.e. with public capital. This is the case with the Professional School of Felgueiras, my land, and four others, such as Cinfanes, Barcelos, Póvoa de Lannoso and Rio Maior. in these circumstances, as schools have no own funds that enable them to accommodate the values resulting from these 15 %, it has become necessary for municipalities, as a public entity holding the majority of the capital of the company, to allocate subsidies to the annual holding, which they do through the conclusion of a programme contract required by law. The above-mentioned reasons justify rules for the application of Articles 2. a is 4. that of the specific regulation or a heading in the State budget for 2023 to address the 15 % of national participation, as for the other professional schools in the country. With this change, we rest justice and the municipalities concerned can invest in better infrastructure and conditions for their students, ensuring better conditions and providing better public service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u279	I begin by congratulating the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and immediately give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Higher Education, Pedro Nuno Teixeira. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u280	I congratulate the Bureau and, again, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Carla Castro, with regard to the proposals of the Liberal Initiative, allow me two notes. The first is about the commitment we made about six months ago. At the time, I tried to make it clear that what was proposed was not a credible compromise on our part, but that we would do our best to try to speed up the award of the grant. I think that, six months later, we can say that we went beyond what we were committed to, because about a month after the beginning of the school year, about half of the scholarship applications, which are more than 100 000, were analyzed and deferred and about 40 000 scholarships were being paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u282	Therefore, the path we have made, with a huge effort of the social action services, not only of the Directorate-General for Higher Education, but of all higher education institutions, has allowed many students to know not only with certainty today that they meet the criteria have a scholarship—because this was included in the August 2022 amendments — but also that this support is rapidly reaching. It is not enough to want these support, it is necessary that they arrive quickly to avoid, exactly, the situations of abandonment. We continue to work so that, until the end of this calendar year, as far as possible, all applications for the grant have been analysed and deferred or deferred and paid. So I think that radically changes the pattern of social action, because if we went back a few years, we would have 6000, 7000, 8000 scholarships paid at the end of a month and, this year, we had about 40 000 scholarships paid at the end of a month.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u284	I therefore believe that this is very significant and shows what I said recently, that the Government's commitment to equity is not a rhetorical compromise. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second note concerns the question of the national access competition. The agileization of placement is a matter that has some complexity. We chose not to make any changes in the national access system because, after the approval of the Government's programme, when it formally entered office, we were on top of the end of the academic year. For students who were applying for higher education this year, 2022 / 2023, if they were applying for higher education, we are talking about the students who, throughout their course of secondary education, lived a context of great uncertainty and great instability because of the pandemic — being adding this instability, changing the rules on this application process, did not make any sense. Therefore, what we did was to wait for the closing of the third phase of the national access competition, at the beginning of October, and from there on triggering what was a commitment from the government, which was to revise the system of access to higher education. in this discussion, which is now happening—we have already made a first round with all the relevant actors in the system for this discussion—that is, of course, a concern. But if you allow me and give me one minute of your patience, there is a very clear and very transparent reason: we need about a month between the closing of applications to the first phase of the national higher education competition and placements because we have a set of special quotas, i.e. students who have a condition of preference—where, for example, students with disabilities, students children of immigrants or descendants, students who have attended courses in international schools— whose processes have to be analysed and validated, for reasons of reliability and to avoid any abuse. We are talking about more than 2000 candidates in these processes, which take several weeks to the Directorate-General for Higher Education to do. Therefore, the whole process is blocked because these students obviously have a preference. The hypothesis that we put on the table in the discussion with the institutions, with the representatives of the parents, with the representatives of the students, was that of empowering some of these contingents. The question is also to discuss the extent to which such quotas are justified. It seems to us — I say from now on — that a quota for disabled students is justified, a quota for migrants, of course, is also justified, and I think that some will continue. But autonomy for what? To release the operation of the general quota. This, then, will also have to be discussed with the institutions, families and students, because it will obviously move with modes of operation that are already very defined in the institutions. That is to say, in mid-August, higher education institutions have the capacity to register students and start the second and third phases, which has obvious advantages, because this will mean not only that students in the first phase have more time to find accommodation, but also that students in the second and third phases will not enter higher education as late as they are entering at the moment, with visible damage to their school path. But this also implies a disturbance in those who are the rhythm of families—and I am going to finish—and therefore the normal pattern of many families who have children of school age and who make vacations in August will be altered. Our commitment is to contractualize this with the different partners and to announce these measures at the beginning of January. Therefore, we expect to have an answer at that time, but we will do our best to speed up the process, for the benefit of the students and for the benefit of the higher education system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u285	We now move on to proposal 1019 - C, submitted by the Left Block, to add Article 121. o -A — Compensation for displaced teachers. To intervene, you have the floor, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have already invented various types of schools, during the pandemic they have just had to invent another one, forcefully, but have not yet invented any school without teachers. And in recent years we have been checking how true this is. That is why it is a commitment to the future to support teachers, to give them the career they deserve, to give them the wages they deserve. It is a disrespect for public school and for the right to education to ask teachers to pay for work, as happens today with the dislocated teachers. That is why the Left Block here presents the proposal for support for displaced teachers, so that teachers do not have to pay for work, and we also present the proposal for recognition of teaching career to those who are in school, but are hired as specialized technicians. If teachers are missing, you need to recognize those who are in school, you need to recognize those who are out of the system today and that we want them to go back to school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u287	Mr. Secretary of State for Education intends to use the floor. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the quality of education naturally depends on several factors, and some have already been mentioned here today and will certainly continue to be so during the rest of the session. Without a doubt, the work of its professionals, whether teachers, or non-teachers, is certainly one of the absolutely essential factors for the quality of education to take place. Therefore, I would also like to tell you that at this time we have not yet reached the teachers, but on the side of non-teachers, I can tell you that, perhaps for the first time in our history, psychologists present in our schools are in accordance with the number of psychologists marked as necessary by the competent international bodies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are also at the moment — as it is, indeed, public knowledge — to develop a negotiating process, certainly difficult, but we hope that it will succeed, with the union organisations representing teachers, which aims to significantly change the recruitment and placement of teachers, ensuring, on the one hand, that we have less difficulties in the placement of teachers and also that teachers themselves can have better answers to their needs and their desires, always putting first, of course, the interest of schools and the interest of students. We are also negotiating with the unions issues of linkage of some teachers and counting of service time, for example, of educators in day care centers, which has never been done and which we think it is fair to do at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u289	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u290	In addition to the quality of the professionals, the quality of the building and the quality of the equipment are absolutely crucial for good education in our schools, for students to learn, and learn more and more. For this reason, we have negotiated with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities a fairly comprehensive school intervention agreement - over 400 schools, in a programme with a dimension and scope, certainly never before seen - the increase in the amount of funds for the maintenance of schools which, however, do not reach this programme, and is aware of all the investment being made in the Digital School programme and also in the implementation of specialized technological centres. Because we know that the quality of education depends on multiple factors, we also know that it is absolutely essential that we can bring to this work many other partners who are sometimes forgotten, namely schools, first of all, as is natural, the trade unions representative of the various professionals of education, the municipalities. It is with all of them that we are working, because the answers need to be different, as the problems are different and often have to be deeply asymmetric. I would also like to say, because I believe that it is significant for all of us, that we are already negotiating with special education colleges to finally review the funds that are destined for them to give an answer that is of absolute educational utility and, I would say, more than that, of absolute humanitarian imperative. PS applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u291	For an intervention, you have the floor, by the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u292	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, with regard to the accounting of the time of service as an educator in day care, the PS does not have to go further: it is enough to approve the proposal that the Left Block makes in this State budget. Regarding the lack of teachers, the Government and the Socialist Party can make the rounds they want, find the little ones that their creativity allows, but there is a reality that is inescapable: what they require a teacher who goes from Family to the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, for 1300 € or 1400 € gross, is to pay transport and two houses. And this, no one can, for a lot of imagination, have neither the PS Member nor the PSD Member nor the Left Block Member. It's impossible! They want teachers, they have to pay them decent wages! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u293	Let us now turn to Article 123. o — Programme contracts in the field of health, of the proposal for a law. I therefore give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mrs Joana Lima. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in 2023, the government will make a strong investment in the requalification of the SNS ( National Health Service ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u295	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u296	... with a budgetary health programme to achieve the greatest growth and the greatest ever allocation, with an increase of more than EUR 1177 million, i.e. more than 10, 5 % vis-à-vis the previous budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u297	Captivating!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u298	For investment, there is a growth of around 6 % compared to the previous budget — EUR 914 million in capital expenditure —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u299	Listen to this!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u300	... which reflects the continuity of government investment policy in the SNS. This value will continue to re-qualify and modernise the SNS, further enhancing the EUR 1383 million of the PRR for reforms and investments.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u301	40 % implementation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u302	It is worth recalling the strengthening of investment in installations and equipment, some already installed, others awarded and others whose procedure will begin in the next State budget: heavy medical equipment such as linear accelerators, magnetic resonance imaging, angiographs, PET (positron emission tomography), computed tomography, etc. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u303	It's all a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u304	I understand, I understand, but there are no arguments to say ill of this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u305	It's 14 hours waiting in the emergency!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u306	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the year... [[CH protests.]] Mr. President, I'm sorry, but I can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u307	I'm asking for a moment of silence. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Joana Lima, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u308	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the year of 2023 will be marked by further advances in strengthening the hospital capacity of the SNS, with the development of projects for the construction of new hospitals and also of requalification and expansion of some of the existing ones. And there are many hospitals that will benefit from these investments: the central hospital of Alentejo ; the hospital of proximity of Sintra, work already on the ground ; the hospital of Lisbon Oriental, whose work is already awarded ; the new central hospital of Algarve and its oncological centre ; the hospital of proximity of the Seixal ; the requalification of the two units of the Hospitalar Póvoa de Varzim - Vila do Conde ; the completion of the works of expansion and modernization of the Hospital de Santo Tirso, at the Hospitalar do Médio Ave ; the implementation of the plan to remodel the central operating block of the Hospitalar Universitário de São João ; and I have many and many more. But I also want to announce here, as the Minister announced yesterday, the new West Hospital and the new Barcelos Hospital, which will also make progress on the dossiers, including the implementation model, indeed, as we all heard yesterday. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS has a commitment to the Portuguese. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] He's got and he's gonna keep doing it! Even with the vote against the right and left, the PS is here, it won't fail the Portuguese! With the Socialist Party in the Government, with this bench, given word is honored! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u309	Nor does Mrs. Deputy believe that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u310	We now turn to proposal 704 - C, of the Left Block, of addition, of the Bill, of Article 123. o -A— Units of the National Health Service. For the Left Block, you have the floor of Mr. Deputy Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if it's just me, but every time I hear the Socialist Party mention this health sheet, what it's going to do, it's going to do, and it's the same, year after year, but it doesn't, I confess that I'm afraid this is the problem of the National Health Service. That is why the Left Block comes to the discussion of the Budget with concrete proposals to be implemented now, and it was good for the PS to approve them. Let us not deceive ourselves: where the National Health Service does not reach, does not reach health, there is more inequality and more cost to the family. The best example of this is oral health. Portugal is from countries with more dentists and with less access to oral health care. That is why the Left Block proposes that it be in the SNS that the family health units that matter and close the door to privatization that the Minister of Health wants to begin. We also propose that primary health care may have dentists, how they can have access to vision health, how they can have access to mental health. And we propose more: in Portugal, one third of the health costs are already borne by families, but they have increased and the situation worsens with inflation. Families cannot cope with these costs and that is why this is the State budget in which it is necessary to increase the participation of medicines and extend it, extending it, too, to enteric nutrition. But this is also the Budget in which we have to say that wearing glasses is not a luxury and that they must have participation, such as an auditory device or dental prostheses. in this country, who has no money has no access to health. This State budget must make the difference: when inflation is higher, that access is worse. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u312	We are now debating proposal 1107 - C of the Liberal Initiative, also adding a new Article 123. o -A — Regulation and Implementation of Family Health Units - Model C. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Joana Cordeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, early access to health care remains committed and, once again, this State budget does not help to solve the problem. About 1,300 000 people do not have a family doctor and the waiting lists remain unacceptable—we have already said so, but we will continue to repeat as often as necessary. The Liberal Initiative defends a national health system, which is an integral part of the National Health Service, but where the various sectors cohabit on an equal footing and where freedom of choice is given to users. Once again, I remember that better health for all implies true access to care, universal and timeless.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u315	And that is why we put forward a proposal for the creation of a health care access program with the aim of ensuring the right of access to a family doctor and the right of access to consultations and surgeries within clinically acceptable times. We have also put forward another proposal relating to the regulation and implementation of the family health units ( USF ) of model C. E, Mr. Members on the left, excuse me for coming with the pope bug of the privatization of health, because you have been the main responsible for the state to which the SNS has arrived and the main dynamizers of private health. [[Applause from the IL.]] Model C USFs are entities with organizational and financial autonomy and this allows the best management practices to be brought to health. For example, the integration of health professionals for the provision of differentiated care is an innovation in the current organization model, which allows to create a proximity response and promote greater ease of access to these differentiated health care. And this model has a decisive role in reducing unnecessary recourse to hospital emergencies, which are filled by the lack of primary health care response. The Minister of Health said that he had no prejudice to the USF model C and that his implementation would be part of the equation of possibilities if he helped solve the problem. That's it, sirs. Members: we will respond to people's needs and we will begin this implementation of model C USF. The Minister acknowledged this possibility and we therefore hope that the Socialist Party will accompany the Liberal Initiative in this proposal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u316	We now move on to proposal 1210 - C of the PSD, also to add to the proposed law of an article 123. o -A— Increased coverage of family doctors. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today there are more than 1,300,000 Portuguese people without a family doctor, more than 300 000 people in 2015. This is the mark of the failed promises of the Socialist Party and of Prime Minister Antonio Costa. And this is an unacceptable situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u319	That is why the PSD proposes that the Government take all necessary measures to ensure that all Portuguese people have a family health team allocated, taking full advantage of the responses of the SNS, the private sector, the social sector, and including the regulation of model C family health units in order to attract more health professionals to the SNS. PSD has no ideological prejudices. For PSD, only people matter. We hope that the Socialist Party will put people first and vote in favour of the proposal of the Social Democratic Party. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u320	We now move on to the debate on proposal 1212 - C of the PSD to add Article 123. -A— Transfer of family health units to model B and regulation of model C FHS. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Melo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have more people working at the SNS and if we have more money in the State Budget, how do we have worse health services? Chaotic emergencies, waiting lists, more than 1 million Portuguese without a family doctor well demonstrate that the government's strategy has failed. The Ministry of Health passed a certificate of incompetence to the ARS (regional health administration) and, above all, it still created an executive direction, in a real coup d'vivirência politique. PS is very fast to get jobs, but it's very slow to make decisions. The PSD proposes a reformist vision that guarantees a future, more efficient and more sustainable SNS. We present a new model of more attractive funding for professionals and that improves the quality of care delivery; a model that integrates primary health care and hospital health care and that pushes gains and health outcomes; a model that allows the creation of an ecosystem, where health units and local institutions — chambers, IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), schools and pharmacy — communicate, collaborate and articulate, to give more quality of life to citizens. They have the courage to approve and follow the PSD proposal to extinguish the ARS and create local health systems, where managers and professionals involve the community and work every day focused on disease prevention and on the well-being of populations. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] Reforming the SNS is the only way to guarantee and protect the health of all Portuguese, the fundamental right in which you have failed most. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u322	The discussion of proposal 1214 - C of the PSD is followed, with an addition to Article 123. o -A— Reduction of waiting times for surgery, consultations and diagnostic examinations. You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cláudia Bento.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u323	Mr. President, I welcome you. Members of the Government, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The deterioration of conditions of access to the National Health Service is increasingly evident, as evidenced by the increase in waiting time, whether for surgeries, consultations and complementary means of diagnosis. This happens with the four years of waiting at the Hospital da Guarda for a cardiology consultation, two and a half years of waiting for a general surgery of obesity at the Hospital de Évora or two years and a means of waiting for a pneumology consultation at the Hospital de Chaves. If this is a problem prior to 2020, the fact is that the pandemic has worsened it, not having managed to give an adequate response to this activity. As such, there is no adequate response nor adequate time for surgeries, consultations, complementary means of diagnosis and screening, especially for cancer diseases. Therefore, the PSD proposes a strengthening of incentives for the recovery of care activity and the guarantee of the issuance of vouchers with entities with agreements or conventions with the National Health Service, where the maximum guaranteed response times are exceeded. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u324	We turn to proposals 1215 - C, adding an article 123. o -A — Increased number of continuous care beds, and 1218 - C, also adding an article 123. o -A — Strengthening the National Palliative Care Network, both of the PSD. Mr Helga Correia spoke for the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, since 2015, that ongoing and palliative care networks have clearly grown insufficiently and well below the promises of successive socialist governments. It is no surprise, therefore, that between 2021 and 2022 they have closed more than 200 beds in continuous care, that the list of waiting guests has increased more than 80 % in the last three years and that in the first quarter of this year more than 1000 people with high clinics remain inappropriately hospitalized in public hospitals. The PSD does not comply with this reality and therefore we propose a significant increase in the number of continuous and palliative care beds, but also a fair increase in the daily participations of the boarding units that effectively contribute to the financial sustainability of the providers that make up these incomes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u326	The proposal for Amendment No 1254 - C of the PSD is further amended by Article 123. o -A — Permission to use the transfer of credits in the form of public procurement through financial factoring operations. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government says that this budget helps everyone, it helps everything and everyone, but, in fact, this budget is full of nothing. But the PSD is here in good faith, helping the government to have a decent, reasonable and not embarrassing budget. And there are small measures that make the difference in aid to those who are out there and claim support. I'm talking about economy. I'm talking about cash injection in companies that, with delays in state payments, are denied access to factoring. This is causing great difficulties to those who, daily, provide, for example, SNS hospitals. There are clauses in the book of charges that prohibit or limit factoring. Our proposal aims to change this situation. It is a measure that allows large millions to be injected into the company's treasury due to non-compliance with the State's payment deadlines. This, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is to build a budget that effectively meets the needs of the Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u328	We now turn to proposal 622 - C of the CFP, to add to the proposed law of Article 124. -A — Free medicines for chronic patients, users over 65 years of age and users with economic impairment. You will use the floor by the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, workers, pensioners, pensioners and families are confronted with the increase in the cost of living that conditions them and degrades living conditions. And access to health, in particular to medicine, is indeed a challenge for those who are most deprived, including chronic patients, people over 65 years of age and those who have economic insufficiency. in this sense, we present a proposal for free drugs for these people. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we need to respond to other difficulties faced by users. One of the measures that the PS is doing in a phased way, as happened in school manuals and daycare centers—always in a phased way, which means that it does not want to do so—is that of moderate rates. They still remain in the emergency service, constituting an obstacle to their access, especially for those who do not have a doctor or a family nurse and for those who are most isolated, because they do not have access to primary health care. We therefore put forward a proposal to eliminate moderate rates, but also to ensure the transport of non-emergency users, in particular for access to continuity of specialized care. But I'm talking too, ladies. Members, on investment issues. Mrs Lima has presented an almost endless role here, which makes us, in fact, a concern because non-implementation leads to the degradation resulting from non-investment. The CFP brings here another multi-annual proposal for investments in the SNS, which improves conditions, ensuring quality and security in access. Mr Pedro Melo Lopes said recently that the government's strategy has failed. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not failed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u330	You failed, you failed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u331	It is quite right and coincides in full with the private strategy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u332	You guys have chosen the private one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u333	... because the measures of degradation and fragility of the National Health Service that are being implemented lead to the fact that Portuguese have more difficulty in access to health. in this sense, when the Liberal Initiative and the PSD come to talk about the urgency and the need to implement the USF model C, this says everything that means for the National Health Service, that is, they want to privatize primary health care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u334	We move on to proposal 1755 - C of the PS to add Article 124. o-B — Extension of the National Program for the Promotion of Oral Health. Mrs Ana Santos of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the National Programme for the Promotion of Oral Health, basically aims to promote oral health throughout life, with equity and tendency towards universality, improving the state of health of the population, through the reduction of oral diseases, whose control will be as effective as it is put on prevention measures. This State budget points to action measures aimed at people's needs in order to protect and improve their quality of life in different age stages. The focus on health promotion and disease prevention strengthens health in all policies. There is an objective need to mobilize citizens for more active participation, a factor under the Barometer for Oral Health 2021, where 28% of users have never visited a dentist or only did so in emergency situations. We know that the need to use oral rehabilitation with dental prostheses is great. It should also be noted that according to the same study 52, 6 % of Portuguese missing natural teeth have no replacement teeth. Oral rehabilitation is fundamental, not only because of aesthetic and functional aspects, but also because of its participation in health in general. It is also a particularly important factor in social and even professional relations. Thus, investment in this area is important, hence it is proposed that the SNS provide removable dental prostheses to all users who need them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u336	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u337	... based on the previously established technical assessment of the needs of access to oral rehabilitation treatments, through dental prostheses, within the framework of the National Program of Oral Health Promotion. Mrs Catarina Martins, if there is any party that has done more for oral health, it is the Socialist Party. With the integration of oral hygienists in the SNS, in 2000, with dentists and with the pilot project of dental medicine, oral health in Portugal has the idea of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u338	We now turn to proposal 1223 - C of the PSD to add Article 125. o -A—Psychologist check. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês Barroso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the SNS continues to fail in response to mental health. At present, around 60 % of people do not have access to this care and of the 25 000 psychologists in Portugal are only 1000 in the SNS. International recommendations point to 1 psychologist per 5000 inhabitants; in Portugal we have 1 per 10,000 inhabitants. By the end of July, there were more than 120 000 adults and 5000 children and young people waiting for psychiatry consultation, with average waiting times reaching 100 days. Psychiatric emergencies increased by 156 % from 2021 to 2022. in this regard, the PSD considers that the government should establish, in 2023, the check-psychologist, like the dentist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u340	I love it! Checks without coverage, to which few have access!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u341	... with a view to increasing population access to health care in psychology, reducing inequalities and structural barriers, correcting asymmetries and territorial limitations of offering mental health care. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u342	To submit the proposal for Amendment No 1243 - C, amending Article 128. the -A - Reduction of debts and late payments of the SNS, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor Mr. João Barreiras Duarte.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u343	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reduction of debts and late payments to suppliers is the proposed addition submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Group, which aims to help the Government to have accurate and real accounts in the National Health Service. It is intended that in the National Health Service today's debt will be reduced by more than EUR 2200 million and that the timetable for the full regularization of late payments to external suppliers will be presented until the end of the first quarter of 2023. The Socialist Party, according to official data for September 2022, has reached a new debt record for the National Health Service, i.e. more than 50 % in relation to the PSD Government, 2015. The accounts aren't right or paid. The State should meet the payment deadlines stipulated with suppliers of goods and services. Due to these delays, suppliers face serious cash problems. This is not fair and, in view of the inflation that we are currently living in and which may continue to increase over the next few months, more difficulties are expected for public administration providers in general if the services provided are not updated financially. Late payments and not paid to suppliers are not true accounts, they are debts! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u344	For an intervention, you now have the floor Mr. Secretary of State of Health, Ricardo Mestre.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u345	Mr President, Dear Members, I would like to mention four or five notes on what has been our discussion in the field of health, the first being to strengthen the importance we attach to the programme contracts, the planning of the activity and the strengthening of the autonomy of the national health service institutions. The year 2023 will be one year that we will be able to start with the programme contracts fully negotiated and approved with all entities. In fact, this month we will finish this preparation work next year. We will also start this year with the activities and budget plans duly negotiated and approved, so that entities can implement those that are the commitments they have made in the context of the assistance activity, the economic-financial performance, the human resources and the investments to be made. Therefore, we will, yes, strengthen the autonomy of management and have commitments to ensure the activity of Portuguese. The second note has to do with primary health care. Let me be very clear: we can say what we want, but we have a programme and a journey that is very, very well defined. First, we will strengthen access to the general and family medicine specialty. Next year, we will have 574 vacancies so that young doctors can do their specialized training in general and family medicine. Secondly, we will bet on the USF model A and model B, continuing to extend the coverage of the population by these units. Thirdly, in a timely manner, in a transitional way, in a localized way, in conjunction with the professionals, we will find solutions to the concrete locations where we have not yet been able to have full coverage by family health teams. This is our route, this is our path and this is where we will not drift away, even though we want to present some ideas that are not those we defend. The third note concerns access to consultations and the National Health Service. After a period of much turbulence, as we all know in recent months, in recent years, we are taking up with great strength the activities of the National Health Service care, with more consultations in primary health care, more people reaching primary health care, more consultations in hospitals, more surgeries. We are talking about the effort of professionals, the organization of work and the strengthening of the entities of the National Health Service. We will always associate with other entities, in terms complementary to the National Health Service, as we do today with the surgeries, within the framework of the Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery, as we do today with the complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, within the scope of the conventional sector, and how we do with answers that guarantee, for example, the continuity of the care of people who have already been discharged from the hospital and who need support to continue their journey of recovery to active life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u346	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u347	So, yes, we will continue to strengthen the National Health Service and ensure responses to Portuguese. The fourth note is about the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. Well, it's very recent the reinforcement we made of the payment prices of the National Network of Integrated Continuous Care. We are talking about a long-term price increase of 15, 3 %; we are talking about a price increase in the medium-term units and rehabilitation of 5, 5 %; and we are also talking about strengthening the partnership with the partners who build, maintain and improve the National Network of Integrated Continuous Care. As you know, this Network is one of the priorities of our country, our government and our Ministry. As you know, we also have a plan within the framework of the PRR so that we can gradually increase the network's internal capacity in 5500 beds. Again, this is our path, this is our path, that's what we're doing. Finally, about debt, as I think you will know, we have a plan to reduce the debt of the National Health Service. It is EUR 1500 million that will be applied in this debt reduction. But we essentially have a path, which is to ensure the balance of management of the entities of the National Health Service, finding the best way to solve the debt, which is to avoid it appearing, having balanced accounts, having adequate management and accountability for the results, that we will continue to deliver to the Portuguese in terms of access and response from the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u348	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u349	Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his statement. I would also like to tell you that I think you should thank the Member of the Liberal Initiative and the PSD Members, who have explained the Government's vision for health best. I understand you agree. I think it's a mistake, a terrible mistake. It is true that the population who despairs of health care whether they are provided, but the State has an obligation to understand what is the plan we have for health. If after the pandemic, if after seeing the private hospitals closing the doors, if after the shame of the radiosurgery in Seville, they still did not realize that the SNS really needs to have capacity, then they are burying one of the greatest achievements of Portuguese democracy. Here, only if you talked about money for the private, it was bingo to the money for the private. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I briefly explain: with regard to primary care, the Government could have chosen, as the Left Block has argued, year after year, that family doctors, family nurses and family health teams were entitled to autonomy, decent remuneration and remuneration incentives, which, at so many points in the country, proved to be the way to ensure family health care for everyone. The PS has always rejected that path, banned it, let the doctors give up that path. He did not do so and now he comes to tell us that the solution, perhaps, is to deliver that same money, which he did not want to give to doctors and nurses, to private companies. This was done in the United Kingdom and it was proven that it took years of life for the population. This is one of the biggest mistakes of the Socialist Party! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u350	The Bureau asks whether or not there is any inscription to speak on this subject, because if there is not, we will move on to the next article. [[Pause.]] On the subject of health, for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u351	Mr President, I would like to leave only one note to reinforce the issue of the investment that this government is making and will continue to do in the SNS. The question of professionals has been discussed here and let me, in fact, take advantage of it to strengthen our work together with the professionals of the National Health Service. This work goes through the appreciation of their careers, through investment in their formation, as we have already said, and through them building solutions. When I talk about investment in their careers, I remember the process, which we recently concluded, of negotiation with nurses, which allowed us to find solutions with the seven nursing unions we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u352	That's why they're on strike today!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u353	48 meetings were held, in which we discussed in detail, exhaustively, all the details related to the valorization of nursing career and where we obtained the final result that allowed 20 000 nurses now to go up one or two pay scales, making this appreciation of the profession, and doing so in a consensual, negotiated and agreed manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u354	Pay everything! Since 2018!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u355	That is why we have achieved that those who have a contract in public office are equal to those who have an individual employment contract; that is why we have managed that nurses who have gone to the career of specialists and managers would also benefit from this negotiation; that is why we have managed that all the points that these professionals have achieved are counted for their future progression. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was done in negotiation with the unions and according to the vision of valuing the careers and professionals of the National Health Service. We are starting this same journey with doctors, regulating such matters as full dedication and others. We also have a lot of expectations that we can find solutions with doctors to enhance their career and to find improvements in the management and functioning of the National Health Service. This is our way, this is where we go and this is where we're not going. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u356	Now for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u357	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, record that you will not deviate 1 mm from the route and therefore want to even privatize primary health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u358	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u359	I wanted to say the following to the Socialist Party and the Government: by having a left-wing speech on the National Health Service, while making a right-wing policy that destroys it, it is not only the SNS that is destroyed and, with it, access to the health of the population, it is also the credibility of democracy itself. This road is dangerous! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u360	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u361	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it may well paint a pink scenario, but in fact this budget does not reflect the policies that the Government is defending! If there is something quite obvious, it is the dissatisfaction among health professionals, who feel the outrage that the policies that the government has implemented do not respond to what should in fact be realized in their lives. What we feel is that it is not enough to consider counting points, we need to go further, we need to value their working conditions and their careers. What we have seen is the struggle of nurses, who are still on strike today—for four days on strike— because they are struggling for their working conditions, are fighting for their conditions and rights, but are also fighting for a National Health Service of better quality and safety for their users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u362	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Correia now speaks of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the State budget for 2023, and the investment in health is at stake. Mrs. Members, we cannot forget what has been the path of the Socialist Party in investing in the National Health Service. We cannot forget access, investment in human resources and follow-up beyond hospital discharge. We have accompanied the patient throughout his circuit in the National Health Service, from his entry to the post-high, and we cannot treat the user and health policies as pieces of a puzzle. in this debate we cannot forget everything that has been done in the Health Bases Act, the new Statute of the National Health Service and mental health care reform, as well as the whole strengthening of health policies. Coming to make accusations asks the piece of the puzzle, at the level of human resources, regardless of everything is a mistake in the policies of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u364	Mrs Susana Correia, on behalf of the Bureau, I leave you only one advice: next time, try not to talk so much on the microphone, because otherwise it will damage the content of your message. Article 134 is hereby followed. the proposal for a law, which has to do with the Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport ( PART). We leave health and move on to public transport. For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Group, Mrs Paula Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Dear colleagues, in a scenario of shortage of fuels, climate change and inflation, concern about mobility and its costs is on the agenda. It is not just in this Budget to reduce the value of the tolls, for example, on the motorways of the country and on the way of the Child, it is to find budgetary tools that ensure that this reduction effort does not then dilute in other costs for users or in constraints of mobility for the experiences of each reality. First of all, it is important to ensure that the claim to increase tolls by 10 %, presented by dealers at national level, is blocked by the government, since there is no reason for such an increase to take place, thus contrary to practices of other European countries that will effectively increase tolls. Secondly, Article 189. this proposal for a State Budget refers to a plan by this Government for the first half of next year to be presented and discussed with Parliament proposals on mobility in the area of territorial cohesion. That is to say, the reduction in the value of the tolls is present in this proposal, but the mobility bet cannot be left here, because different local realities need another type of complementary solutions. It will do nothing to the Portuguese of these territories to reduce tolls if they do not have their own car or if the necessary trips to their lives do not pass through a highway. We also think that the reduction in public transport prices is welcome, but having a bus at 7 o'clock in the morning to go to the headquarters of the municipality and another to return only 12 hours later enters the field of human sacrifice. The interior territories need a cheaper, more efficient and more environmentally friendly mobility network. Solutions such as on-demand transport, extension of the rail network, adaptable transport buses operating in extended areas must be carried out at the same time, so that those who do not have alternatives to the use of the former SCUT motorways (without cost to the user) will do so so that the cost structure of the companies and the price of the transport of the families is reduced. But let us not lose sight of the environmental targets for reducing carbon emissions, the adverse effects of which are very evident in our country in terms of climate change. I ask, then, my colleagues in this House are accompanying the Socialist Party in the construction of this mobility plan, which if you want solidarity, efficient and adaptable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u366	He's responsible!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u367	...the more valid the more involved and coordinated it is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u368	Under the same Article, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an Budget that does not respond to the basic needs of the Portuguese, particularly now, that winter is approaching and, since we live a period of energy crisis, they wonder how they can warm up their homes. It is that 9 out of every 10 people do not feel comfortable with the temperature of their home, and this is the same as saying that 9 out of every 10 Portuguese people get cold in their home. But this question is not only about thermal discomfort, it is about deaths too, because in Portugal it dies cold. Last winter, 25% of deaths occurred due to the cold, a drama that mainly affects the elderly, my grandparents and your grandparents. This is called energy poverty, and on this matter, the government does not have one line in this budget. More: in the field of expertise, the Minister for the Environment and its dolphins have not been able to clarify the simple question that has come to light. After all, how many people will stop cold in your home, fruit of this Budget? Mr. Minister was unable to respond because it is obvious that no one will stop cold at home this winter, thanks to the Socialist Party. It is too obvious that buildings in Portugal are obsolete, and this government has answered this issue only with valleys and checks, which, by the way, are elitist and only reach some. In addition, last year, they made a programme that wanted to support around 20,000 families and that did not benefit 3,000 people, because it is extremely difficult to compete for these programmes. But since the numbers are impersonal and this matter does not warm or cool the Socialist Party, I bring you the case of Mr. José Augusto, who was reported in several newspapers in January this year. Mr. José Augusto is a 72-year-old reformer who, in winter, sees the temperature of his home range from 12°C to 14°C. Mr. José lives in the village of Cortiçô da Serra, in Celorico de Basto, and, according to his words, it is horrible to live in his house, where it is very cold. Therefore, the arrival brings a concrete proposal for this budget, which will be voted on today, in order to call for energy poverty programmes to be reviewed and to cover more people, eliminating all the kind of elitism that these programmes have. The question I ask you is whether, by Mr José and the Portuguese, they will finally approve a proposal from the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u370	Also within the framework of this article, now to present Amendment 861 - C, I give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, if the Socialist Party really intends to extend the supply of public transport and reduce its price, it has only one option, to follow the proposals that the CFP brought the debate in the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u372	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u373	Now see: strengthening of funds from the PART and PROTransP(ProTransP's Programme of Support for the Densification and Strengthening of the Public Transport Offer) ; reducing the social pass to €20 ; free social pass for young people up to 18 years old, students and people aged 65 or older; creation of a national rail pass, worth €40, for all the national territory and for all regional operators, excluding the Network Expresses and the long-term offer of CP (trains of Portugal ) where there are alternatives; maintenance of the price of occasional tickets. It refers to Mrs Paula Reis that this is in the programme, but, in view of what is needed at this time and in this State budget, it is possible and feasible to take this decision. And why doesn't the Socialist Party take it? This is, in fact, the question. There are several regions in our country that still do not have an adequate public transport network, which is insufficient and, in some cases, even non-existent. Therefore, what the CFP brings here is, in fact, the objective of strengthening the supply of public rail, road and river transport and reducing its price, being important to bear in mind that, if there has been progress that had significant environmental impacts and the promotion of public transport, it was the reduction of the price of the social transit, with the determining intervention of the CFP, a reduction that, for years, said it was not possible, but the reality there is demonstrating that the CFP was right. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u374	Still within the framework of Article 134. to present Amendment No 30 - C, which has to do with the freeness of pass 418@escola.tp, pass sub23@superior.tp and social pass +, by the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real — who else but her?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the NAP brings this proposal not only for the reduction of social passes and passes up to 18 years, but also for the purchase of tickets to be deductible at the IRS (tax on income of natural persons). This Assembly and the Government must begin to implement the maximum and the appeals we have heard at summits such as the COP (the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) in schools and on the streets our students have travelled, claiming that once and for all we are beginning to have effective commitments with the decarbonization of the economy and the protection of the climate, rather than systematically continuing to finance fossil fuels. However, the measure to allow families the deduction of tickets purchased for public transport has not only a character of social justice but also an environmental framework. We have already heard several parties talk about the importance of public transport, and this biggest bet is absolutely essential for the NAP. We must not forget that measures such as exemptions and the tax benefits that persist at this time for, for example, the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) amount to more than EUR 19 million, which would be precisely the cost of measure such as the freeness of social passes for young people, in this case, up to 23 years throughout the country. It is essential that we make choices in this Budget and we cannot leave neither the climate nor the families that need the most.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u376	Now within the framework of Article 135. the, to present Amendment No 879 - C — Electrification - Social support for the electrification of gas consumption, has the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is about something we have known for a long time, which is the fact that electricity is a path to decarbonisation. But if part of the country is already electrified, even because it is economically more viable and good for the environment, there is another part of the country that continues to need the help of public policies to do just that. Especially at this time, when gas prices affect so many families that simply want to warm their homes or cook, help them make this energy transition must be valued in this Budget. Therefore, in all the public policies that the Government has promoted in this area, we have put the value of the most vulnerable consumers so that they can electrify their consumption, because a gas that is good for the environment and which is also very cheap for consumers is the gas that is not spent. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u378	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u379	Mr President, I would like to leave only a brief comment on the speeches made by Mrs Rita Matias and Mr Hugo Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u380	Can't stand it! Mr. Secretary of State can't stand it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u381	Energy poverty is not a reality that has emerged in Portugal in recent months or in recent years, it is a reality that has always existed in Portugal and that is largely due to the problem of building our building. Therefore, energy poverty is not a reality today or yesterday, it is not from the Government of the Socialist Party, it is not from previous governments of the Democratic Social Party, it is a reality that exists, historically, to which one tries to respond. The question that the honourable Member has not asked was whether there has been any response to the problem of energy poverty in recent years. And the answer is unequivocally 'yes', Mrs Deputies, because all policies that have been put into practice are aimed at lowering — and effectively lowering — the price of electricity. in a scenario of a strong energy crisis and rising electricity prices as never before, it is known, public and validated by all entities dealing with these issues which Portugal actually has of the lowest energy inflation in Europe. This is how energy poverty is combated, Mrs Deputies, by creating conditions for a structural problem of Portuguese society to be overcome gradually, as it is obvious, because the problem is enormously large and, by many speeches that arrive, any serious person who looks at the problem realizes that the huge stock of buildings with problems that we have in our country is not overcome overnight. On Mr Carvalho's intervention, in the same way, the Socialist Party's Government has, in different fields — either in measures to reduce the price of electricity structurally, either through one-off support of different types — supported by the most vulnerable families and that is what we will continue to do. I repeat: in a scenario of the biggest energy crisis that we all have already experienced, which the world has already experienced, Portugal still has the lowest energy inflation in Europe and that is a fact that must be recognised. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u382	We now have proposal 1385 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 136. o -A— Special housing protection regime itself in the face of increased housing credit charges. For the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, ensuring access to housing and protecting housing, so that no one is homeless, assumes a special importance, taking into account the increase in housing costs, which are incompatible with low wages. Those looking for home confront speculative values. We are also concerned about families who, in the face of the actual devaluation of wages and pensions, may no longer be able to bear the housing charges, due to the increase in incomes and the increase in Euribor rates, for those who have credit for housing. It must be borne in mind that, in our country, most families are pushed into debt, given the lack of public housing. in this budget we bring concrete proposals, in particular a special scheme for the protection of rented housing, with a maximum limit for the updating of income by 0, 43 % — the value of 2022 — which is applied in the new contracts. We also propose a special housing protection scheme for households with housing credit, which takes into account the following: before increasing family benefits, the increase in Euribor rates should, firstly, be reflected in the reduction of fees, commissions and other charges charged by the bank. We propose the mediated renegotiation of the household credit, with the reduction of credit charges up to the amount corresponding to the 35 % effort rate, extending maturity, the donation in compliance with the corresponding elimination of the family debt and compensation when the debt value is less than the selling value, if sold. We also propose the conversion of credit to housing into leases, with the possibility of recovery of credit, by discounting the amount in debt the value of paid income and the impermissibility of own and permanent housing. We also propose the freezing of the value of income, under the supported income, the support for the recovery and rehabilitation of returned property, placing them on the lease, the strengthening of investment in the provision of public housing, giving priority to the mobilization of public assets for this purpose and enabling the IHRU of the means necessary for its realization, with the aim of having more 50 000 housing up to 2026. We also propose, in this Budget, the repeal of visasgolds and the special regime of unusual residents, which greatly contribute to real estate speculation and the increasing difficulties in access to housing. Trust, security and stability are essential for the lives of families, to ensure that they do not go into non-compliance, to ensure that no one loses home, to ensure access to housing—these are the commitments of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u384	Now we have reached Article 138. o — Environmental Fund. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will use the floor, for an intervention, through Mr Hugo Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, 37 is the number of proposals for addendum that the Environment Fund has had on the side of the opposition. The champion of the proposed amendments to the Environmental Fund was the PSD. Then there was the PSD cod to arrive, secondly, with the number of proposals you presented. When I looked at the proposals, especially for the 14th PSD, I was hoping that they would be genuine and that there really would be a desire to implement public policies in the area of the environment and climate action. But then I remembered that in the last PSD Government budget in 2015 the PSD presented less EUR 4770 million for the environment and climate action area.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u386	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u387	Then I remembered that in the area of energy transition and renewable energy, when the PSD was government put these projects all in the drawer. And then I also remembered that in 2019 the PSD voted against the PART, a tariff reduction programme, which, in addition to lightening the family budget, significantly reduces carbon emissions in cities. Therefore, the PSD, more than the champion of the proposals, is, above all, the champion of the lack of ambition in the environment and climate action.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u388	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u389	But then I looked at the coming and thought, "Has any environmentalist spirit come down on that party? Do not keep on seeking. ” And I remember not, because it was still 15 days ago that the leader himself said that the best thing was to promote the exploitation of hydrocarbons in national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u390	Nobody said that! Be serious! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u391	I said, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u392	We bought the Spaniards! It's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u393	And then I remembered that the leader of the Arrival spoke about the possibility of reopening the coal power stations in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u394	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u395	The arrival is second on this podium, but it has the consolation prize, which is the greenwashing prize, which is what the party arrives to do. Despite this, and from the end of getting the greenwashing prize, the Socialist Party, as an open party, as a party that, contrary to what you say, does not use any compressor roll, is available, will study and will make possible some opposition proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u396	Enough? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u397	... in order to improve public policies of the environment and climate action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u398	We now have the proposal for Amendment No 843 - C submitted by the PSD to add Article 138. o -A — Programme to reduce water losses in supply networks. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Coimbra will use the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech is about water losses, but, after listening to Mr Hugo Pires, I would like everyone to do an exercise that benefits the Portuguese people above all, which is that, when we talk mainly about the past, we do not attack, we do not start entering an angry spiral in which then nothing we say is worth doing in this House. Mr President, I think you should perhaps review your remarks a little bit. Anyway, what brings me here today is the question of a serious problem that Portugal has. Portugal has unacceptable levels of water loss in its supply networks. We suffer from the effects of drought at the same time that we waste 30% of our water for not keeping it on our networks. Years go by and little changes. In fact, our water is becoming scarcer, we pay for the treatment of water and we continue to waste it. We must definitely put an end to this irrational waste. We need to invest, to ensure that we renew our infrastructure. This budget does not solve or help that problem. The PSD proposes that there be a programme to reduce water losses in public supply networks and we count on Mr Hugo Pires and the Socialist Party to approve this measure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u400	Article 138. the -A, there is also another amendment, proposal 954 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 138. o -A — Financing of the National Plan of Regadios 20 - 30. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, Mr João Moura will use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u401	Mr. President and Mr. Members, there are two factors that have been decisive in this crisis of Europe, and Portugal is no exception. One of them has to do with energy and the second with the shortage of food. It is scarce that leads to an increase in food prices and makes it difficult for Portuguese to access these foods. It is up to each Member State, each Government, to take the measures it considers necessary to address this point problem in a structural and structural way for the country. And it is here that the PSD recommends — and has this proposal — that the Socialist Party apply and use the resources at its disposal to actually increase the areas of irrigation in Portugal, so that Portugal can, in essence, be a competitive country, so that it can produce more food and make it available to the Portuguese table at much more interesting prices. Therefore, what the PSD does is to propose that the Socialist Party use the National Regadios Programme, put it into practice, which uses the financial resources at its disposal, so that, in fact, Portugal can have more storage and water capacity for a determining sector that is agriculture. Basically, what we are proposing to the Government is that it be able to 'water' in a positive way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u402	I take advantage to greet the children and their teachers and educators who, in good time, entered the galleries to accompany us in this work. We now move on to proposal 956 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add Article 138. o -A — National Plant of Leiria. The PSD Parliamentary Group will take the floor on this subject, with the floor of Mr João Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u403	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the emblematic national heritage of Pinhal de Leiria deserves another consideration from the Government. It was promised that all revenue from the sale of burned wood, about EUR 17 million, would be fully, I underline, entirely, invested in the recovery and reforestation process of Pinhal de Leiria. It happens that this revenue — and in the matter of national money — should necessarily be included in this budget for 2023, if the Government honours its word, it will honour that promise. However, this is what the PSD submits here with this proposed addition: that the Government should include in the State budget a sum of EUR 5 million of this value from the sale of burned wood, regardless of any amount coming from the PRR or any other Community programme, and that the Government should comply with the promise. We're waiting, ladies. Members of the Socialist Party, who contribute to this wish, approving this proposed addition submitted by the Democratic Social Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u404	The Bureau received the indication that Mr. Secretary of State for Environment and Energy wants to use the floor, so before we turn to the next article, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u405	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the last two PSD interventions show the problem of having a clear view of an agenda that needs to be integrated, particularly with water. We had two contradictory interventions by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Coimbra said that the major problem of the water sector is losses and that the country has to invest in reducing losses, forgetting that losses are physical and commercial losses — he spoke as if all losses were by definition physical, which is not true. But there was another intervention, immediately following, in which it was called for an expansion of the stream. The Government of the Socialist Party has nothing against irrigation, but you know one thing, Mr João Moura: it is not possible to have a concrete water policy without looking at the problems in a coherent manner. However, it is not possible to make an intervention first on losses and to follow an intervention that calls for the mere expansion of the irrigation without taking care of a topic: that the sector that has the most losses in Portugal is the sector of agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u406	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u407	Does this mean that the Socialist Party's government is against regadion? No, no, no. It means that it is not possible to bet on irrigation without having a correct view of water losses, water efficiency, and that is what the government's policy has, in an integrated way.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u408	That's exactly what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u409	And that is why we are finishing the PENSAARP (Strategic Plan for the Water Supply and Wastewater and Rain Management Sector), which will deal with many of these materials, in an integrated and unbroken way. That is why we think of the public policies of integrated financial support for these measures, as we have an integrated view of the policy, and not open and contradictory, as the interventions of the two PSD Members have well demonstrated here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u410	We will now resume the discussion on Article 138. -A, which has an amendment proposal, to 1079 - C - Regulation of deposit and reimbursement systems. For the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernardo Blanco will use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u411	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, recently I saw that you were very pleased with the results of the measure on the purses. That is what happens when the Socialist Party approves measures of the Liberal Initiative and therefore I hope that it will hear this and have the same opinion. After seven years of socialist government, waste management in Portugal remains terrible. Our recycling rates are very low. All European documents and, until this year, the audit of the Court of Auditors has taken place in the assessment of waste management in Portugal and the government has failed all targets. One of the tools to help improve this problem is the implementation of the packaging deposit system, and what we are proposing today, here, is that within 60 days — and I explain why — the Government launches the terms and conditions of the system, so that we can have, as in other European countries, a system that will, yes, promote the increase in recycling. This system consists of distributing thousands of machines across the country—in supermarkets, cafes, restaurants—where people can place their packaging and retrieve part of the cost they had. Giving a quick example: if a bottle of water cost 1, 10 €, we can put it there, recycle and retrieve 10 cents of that cost. Thus, we increased recycling, increased resource savings and also promoted an effective circular economy. This system, managed privately and, in many European countries, without the intervention of municipalities, has existed for many years. In some European countries there have been almost two decades and in other countries, for example in the United States of America, almost 50 years ago. The deposit and refund system has had great results. The average return rates are around 90 %, and so I would say that Portugal is late, but it is still going on. In Portugal, the system is generally provided for in the law four years ago, but the problem is that it has not yet come out of the paper. We have been with this system for four years in the role; the government was obliged, by the end of last year, to have launched the competition for the system's management license, but it has done nothing yet. There is an aggravating: obviously, the system does not appear from day to night and when we make the average of cases in European countries, we see that its implementation still takes considerably one and a half years, in some cases, two. Therefore, and at best, even if we approve this already, and if the government does, we still have to wait a year and a half or two until it is implemented. So, at best, we spent six years implementing this system, which I find incomprehensible. It is urgent to put the system in place, to have better recycling rates and better waste management, because it has been six years — these four more potential two years — it is time for the government to stop rolling the circular economy. I hope that this conference, at the government bench, will accept this proposal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u412	For an intervention, Mr President-in-Office of the Environment and Energy States has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u413	Mr President, I just want to tell the Liberal Initiative Member that we support the proposal. It is precisely part of the intervention that the Government is now concluding. The decree-law is ready. But this seems to be a good measure. In fact, it is in line with what we ourselves propose to do. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u414	We accept the good ideas of others!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u415	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us now turn to Article 138. o-B, which has a proposal for an amendment to 1313 - C - Depollution of the river Lis river basin. For an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Jorge Gabriel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u416	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Leiria region has been fighting for years for a solution that minimizes the environmental impact resulting from the lack of adequate treatment of pig effluents, which strongly impairs the quality of life and the well-being of its populations. The region has, in the municipalities of Leiria, Porto de Mós, Batalha and Marinha Grande, about 280 companies responsible for the 455 farms, reaching a quota of about 17, 5 % of the national production of pig farming. The importance of this economic activity in the local economy, which has been expanded for three years with exports to Asia, is affected by this situation. The pollution of the shores of the Miracles and the Lis and Lena rivers is an environmental problem, transversal to many governments. After a last attempt to build a processing and recovery station of pig effluents, promoted by the Union of Pigs, and which had ensured support from the ProDer ( Rural Development Programme) of about 9 million euros, the same ended up being unsuccessful, delaying once again the possibility of solving the problem. In parallel, it assists the overload of land, with the deposition of effluents, which has very negative environmental consequences, affecting the Leiria region. More recently, the city of Marinha Grande warned of the fact that analyses carried out by the Public Health Unit of ACES ( Grouping of Health Centres ) Pinhal Litoral, carried out at the water quality of the river Lis, in the course that is located next to the ETAR (residual water treatment station) of Coimbrão, reveal the presence of levels of contamination of water quality above those that are carried out in the amount of it. As the Socialist Party is concerned about these issues, particularly with environmental issues, the current government will certainly solve these problems, so during the year 2023, it is expected that the Government will take the necessary steps to carry out technical and economic-financial studies to find an integrated solution for the collection, treatment and exploitation of all effluents, in particular agricultural and agro-industrial effluents. This solution must be mitigating to the negative environmental impacts, appropriate to the protection of the shores of the Miracles and the Lis and Lena rivers and aim at protecting public health and the quality of life of the populations of that region and of all those who visit it, providing for the type of financing for it, consequently approving the proposal that was put forward by the PS and we hope that it will also have the approval of the remaining banks that make up this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u417	Still within the framework of Article 138. o-B there is a new amendment to 1315 - C — Adaptation of public gardens to climate change. Mr Luís Graça will use the floor for the Socialist Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u418	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have been living the second largest drought since 1931 and that is why in Algarve and Alentejo at this stage we are already talking about severe drought and extreme drought not as a meteorological phenomenon that happens from time to time, but as a permanent meteorological phenomenon. Therefore, the issue of water is so important. The Government has made this commitment, in particular to these regions, both from the point of view of ensuring greater storage capacity, both in the diversification of food sources and in the reduction of losses. This is the example of the investment in the Pisão dam in Alentejo ; this is the investment in water capture in the Guadiana River for the Odeleite dam ; this is the example in the construction of a central desalination plant in the Algarve, and possibly another one on the Alentejo Coast ; this is the example of the recovery of water from the treatment stations to the river ; this is the example of the investment with the municipalities of Algarve to reduce the losses of the household supply systems ; this is the example of work together with the irrigation associations, to improve the efficiency of water systems in agriculture. Today, the Socialist Party presents a proposal for a pilot experience to improve efficiency and how we can imagine the green spaces, our gardens in urban centers, challenging the autarchs, municipalities and landscape architects to replace the plants that consume more water by native species, Mediterranean plants, which do not need such water effort, thus saving the consumption of water also in urban space, but making our cities, our municipalities, continue to have living green spaces and the service of the populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u419	We turn to proposal 1566 - C— Programme 3C— House, Comfort and Climate, adding Article 138 - C. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u420	Mr. President, Caras and Dear Collegas, during the election campaign that elected us all two brothers died in the Metropolitan Area of Porto trying to warm up their home and then died a mother and a daughter in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. The Free talked about this and other parties, perhaps, also talked about it. But I remember parties that, during the election campaign, still a few months ago, in the middle of winter and in the coldest days that the country suffered this year, had, on the main subject, perpetual punishment and its reintroduction into the country. So save me from crocodile tears on the cold in Portuguese houses, when, above all, the only thing you have to say about this is'reform programmes'.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u421	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u422	This when a few months ago, during the discussion of the State Budget for this year, they had zero, ball, to propose on this subject... [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] ... and when, in the State Budget for 2023, what they have to say is « reformulate! », without saying how.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u423	And what is your proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u424	But I say how.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u425	What's the proposal? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u426	Do you know how programs stop being elite and reach the people they need? This is called « fregetical boards », « protocol with ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesia ). » Two thousand of the 3000 friesy joints in the country know the people who have unconditional homes there. They're your neighbors. This is based on the proposal from the Freeman. Is this on your proposal? He's not. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] Do you know how companies in the industry are encouraged to look for their customers, talk to their neighbors and say that the state can pay 100 % of its works in their homes—as is the proposal of the Free and it was already last year? This is called a tax credit of 10 % on expenditure on house arrangements. I know that Mr. Secretary of State has given interviews in which he says that this is the right way to do it. I hope that you will convince the other members of the government. This is on the proposal for the Free. Is this on your proposal? He's not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u427	We have more than one! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u428	And I tell you why: because there are people who care about these issues, think about them for a long time, do not simply use them as an electoral flag or to try to steal votes from other parties and do not use them in the pause of talking about chemical castration or life imprisonment, themes that don't heat up anyone's house. I therefore think it is very good that there is a social turn, but that it is not a façade, because the only facades that, with this programme, already last year and next, extending, can actually be arranged, are the facades of people's houses, and solar windows and panels and heat pumps, to finally try to solve a problem in this country that has centuries, that other Western European countries have already resolved, that is to live comfortably, in a dignified and more sustainable way in our homes, and that you, with your themes of the "last century" will never be able to solve. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u429	We have 40 proposals! We are not alone! [[L-protests and CH-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u430	Perhaps it would be interesting to continue the debate outside, because we are all eager to go to lunch! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u431	The debate is here! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u432	Therefore, and in this striking purpose of continuing the debate on the budget proposal, let us turn to Article 138. o-G, with the appreciation of proposal 873 - C— Water efficiency plan of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro. For an intervention, I give the floor to Mrs Cláudia Bento of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u433	I would like to congratulate Mr President, Mr President. Members of the Government and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Bragança and Vila Real districts have been heavily affected by severe drought in the last year, with impacts on water supply to populations. For this reason and to avoid dramatic situations in the future, we propose the development of a regional water efficiency plan for the Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro region that we hope the Socialist Party will have the courage to approve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u434	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to Article 139. o -A, with the appreciation of proposal 959 - C — Support for energy expenditure by farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u435	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the last eight months, due to the drought, but essentially due to the war launched by Russia, and inflation, the costs of electricity in the agricultural and livestock sector doubled and for many even tripled. Everything indicates that this reality will be maintained during the next year, if it does not get worse, which alone will continue to worsen the sustainability and survival rate of a sector that is going through an unprecedented crisis. The prices of production factors do not stop rising, our food security and sovereignty are at stake, and the fact is that this budget does not give the answer it imposes. of the two, one : or national agricultural and livestock production is no longer a priority for this government or the government cannot see a reality that is in the eyes of everyone. For the PSD, the answer is primarily due to the duplication of the values of the support provided for in Law No 37 / 2021 — which has as its object precisely the energy used in agricultural and livestock production, as well as in the storage, conservation and marketing activities of agricultural products — which, in good rigor, is no more than the update of the 2021 values to the times and reality of today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of those moments that serve to see who is really on the side of national agricultural and livestock production. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u436	We shall then proceed to the proposal of Article 139. o-C — Increased partial refund of TGR revenue to municipalities, for which the PSD presented proposal 898 - C. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr Hugo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u437	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by giving a note to Mr Hugo Pires : in addition to the misconceptions I have said, I hope that I will vote not at 14, but the 32 proposals of the PSD in the area of the environment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u438	The creation of the TGR ( waste management rate) was based on the need to discourage landfilling, associating the rational TGR with the progressive increase to boost the increase in recycling in Portugal. in a country where the State is a good person, the commitments are fulfilled, the investment in system capacity is made. The entire fee charged must be a marker, i.e. a direct benefit to those who pay it. Otherwise, the fee is not a fee, it is a tax. At the same time, part of this rate should be invested in multi-municipal and municipal systems in order to improve efficiency and ensure good waste management due to the application of Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020, proposed by the successful PSD in the parliamentary assessment of this diploma. In addition, there is a flagrant failure to meet targets in this sector, in fact, as is the government's concern in environmental matters. The PSD proposes, within this State budget, that the revenues of the TGR assigned to the fundamental which have not been applied in the opening of notices in 2021 and 2022 return to the municipalities in 2023, increased by 50 %, as a form of compensation, so that they can impact on the reduction of the fees and financial benefits charged, i.e., at the end of the day, to be the citizens enjoying this compensation by means of the reduction of the value they pay. In order to progress in environmental policy, the State must speak and the government must comply. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u439	Mrs. Members, the proposal for a Rule 140 is now followed. o -A — Strengthening support for family agriculture, for which the CFP presented proposal 206 - C. On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u440	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, national agriculture is experiencing an absolute emergency. Faced with the increase in the prices of production costs, with drought, compared with low prices paid for production, faced with war and sanctions, now, as if not enough, the Government takes another step towards dismantling the Ministry of Agriculture, ending the Regional Directorates of Agriculture, thereby creating a situation of deprotection of farmers, withdrawing from them the few rural extension services that still existed. We want to say that the government has given up all of the small and medium-sized agriculture and family agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u441	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u442	It is in this sense that the CFP presents a proposal that values family farming. We can't forget, sirs. Members, of whom, in a universe of 250 000 family farmers, only 700 have the active title of family farmers. This says all about the need for this amendment to strengthen support for family farming and facilitate access to the Family Agriculture Statute. We have put forward other proposals, including the proposal for the acquisition of production factors, in which we propose and support a public supply of agricultural and livestock production factors, under conditions which do not penalise and which allow farmers to escape the speculation of the costs of production factors. Finally, we propose other support, including extraordinary, modulated and ceilinged support, linked to the production of cereals and, in the fisheries sector, extraordinary support for the price of coloured diesel and also a programme to support local and coastal fisheries and the income of fishery workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u443	Next you will use the floor to the Secretary of State for Fisheries, Teresa Coelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u444	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe this is a budget of stability, confidence and commitment. This budget increases by 18, 6 % compared to the budget in 2022, showing an effective increase in expenditure by EUR 233 million. With regard to irrigation, I would like to say that 310 projects are being implemented in the amount of EUR 762 million of investment, with 233 000 in 18 districts in about 120 municipalities. In addition, we are preparing the national study Regadio 2030, which aims to raise needs and evaluate the potential development of the collective regadium in order to implement the National Investment Programme 2030 and which has an amount of EUR 750 million. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] On the issue of alternative energy and energy to farmers, I would like to say that the government area of agriculture and food has the main objective of encouraging the energy sustainability of agricultural holdings. in this sense, we have already opened notices amounting to EUR 46 million, which will be reinforced with more than EUR 46 million. On the autonomous fund for support for small-scale agriculture, I would like to say that there are already specific support for small-scale agriculture and family farming. In particular: the notice for the renewal of the Agricultural Tractor Park, with an allocation of EUR 35 million ; support for the installation of photovoltaic panels, with an allocation of EUR 25 million in 2021, and EUR 10 million in 2022 ; support for the installation of anti-granium networks with an allocation of EUR 17, 5 million; a specific notice for traditional permanent crops of EUR 10 million. Precise and intelligent agriculture also has support of EUR 24, EUR 5 million as well as territories vulnerable to fire hazards. We strengthen the support rate for 70% in agricultural insurance under the RDP ( Rural Development Programme ). We are tearing up support under the VITIS ( Vine Restructuring and Reconversion Support Scheme ). Multi-product producer groups were recognised. Finally, I mention the small farming regime in PEPAC (Strategic Plans of the Common Agricultural Policy) 2023 - 2027. PEPAC 2023 - 2027 favourably discriminates against small and medium-sized agriculture through the redistributive model of the small agricultural scheme, with greater investment support, with a maximum rate of 85 %, and with a wide range of agri-environmental and eco-environmental aid. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u445	Mrs. Members, the following is Article 143. o — Official animal collection centres, support for sterilization and promotion of animal welfare, for which the NAP submitted proposal 6 - C. For an intervention, I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u446	Mr President, allow me, before I come to the subject of this proposal, to comment. In fact, they are all very environmentalists until they start defending livestock and intensive fishing. If that's not climate negationism, I don't know what it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u447	We have to eat!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u448	Regarding this article, we are pleased to note that there is a line of continuity for animal protection, through the dialogue that the NAP has carried out around the State Budget. Our proposal, however, goes beyond what is enshrined in the specialty. We understand that there has to be a higher increase in order to overcome not only inflation but also the needs of animal protection associations, since they have replaced the state in our country. On the other hand, it is essential that we guarantee this increase in money for a strong wager in sterilization campaigns, for public veterinary hospitals—which are an essential figure so that deprived families, which have pets, can take the form of sterilization and provide them with health care, bearing in mind the concept of ‘one health’ — and also for electronic identification. It is not enough to say that we want to combat the scourge of abandonment. Without identifying the animals and without making an electronic identification campaign, we will be very short of the need to combat the different animal protection problems. Finally, I refer to the Forest Animal Recovery Centres, for which support from the State is essential. The NAP has made a proposal in this regard and we hope that the Socialist Party and the Government will follow our proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u449	We now turn to Article 144. o — The opinion and certification of the accounts of the elective sovereign bodies. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I give the floor to Mr Bruno Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u450	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I leave a previous note to Mr Hugo Pires: he cannot say these falsehoods.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u451	I didn't say any falsehoods!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u452	What we did in the Commission and what the President of the Arrival, André Ventura, spoke about was the position that Antonio Costa Silva, today's Minister of Economics, had as President of the Partex. Therefore, you do not try to mix matters. They're so confused! Then the same person who said «are environmentalists until it comes to livestock» is the same person who was defending human rights a few hours ago but who had just arrived from Egypt. [[NAP protests.]] So we're not even going to be here to discuss these issues. This budget has been discussed as the family budget, the budget of the right accounts, the budget of transparency. No, that's not true. Transparency was what I included, because the PS would never include the issue of transparency. So, what we are doing is we are putting forward a proposal for an external audit of the government's accounts in the last two legislatures. But let's go further by proposing that all public administration contracts with government members or their family members should also be involved and monitored. The Secretary of State for Civil Protection is no longer here, but this measure could avoid situations that would be clear to the SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal) and therefore would have the right to defend itself, if everything were clear. Or, as far as European funds are concerned, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion would also have had an opportunity not to enter the scandal. Or Miguel Alves, in relation to the Way and now to the City Hall of Lisbon, everything would also be clearer. Or even Pedro Nuno Santos. Or even the one whose name I will not quote not to generate a defense of honour, but which is known in the corridors by the « dolphin of José Socrates », who has the boldness to come here to say « the Enough be serious! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” When we put together "José Socrates" and "serious" in the same sentence, there is great difficulty in trying to understand what it is. With this measure we could see what Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba would have to say in relation to the lithium business which he has already so many times denied, but for which he has never been able to prove anything at all. Or even in relation to the situation they have so often spoken about, which has to do with contracts that are being concluded with Nigeria. They say they weren't there, but after all João Galamba had been there a month before the fillings. To conclude, and also taking advantage of the journalistic consortia that have been born in recent days, this measure would prevent, for example, contracts of EUR 54 million, plus EUR 34 million for the purchase of vaccines, such as what was concluded by the Portuguese Government under an agreement made by the European Union, from having determined 9 vaccines for each Portuguese. This is in a contract where no one understands anything! Taking advantage of the fact that, yesterday, whoever managed the votes of the Socialist Party was here in the Chamber, in a lack of respect, practically sleeping, I ask you: if you do not want to vote directly, at least fall asleep or winter when this proposal is to be voted on. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u453	We now turn to Article 149. o — Portal More Transparency. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I give the floor to Mrs Rosário Gambôa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u454	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the budget of the Ministry of Culture, following the road we started from 2015 onwards, had this year a growth worthy of note. Indeed, the 2023 budget has a value of EUR 760, EUR 3 million, i.e. a growth of more than 23 % in the 2022 budget. This budget materialises its investments, for example, with an increase of 2, 5 % in the legal incentives for local and regional communication, with careful attention to the interests and difficulties that this sector is experiencing. in this field, there is also in the Budget the registration of the revision of the legal system of state incentives, seeking to suit and improve it, according to the major technological and social changes that have greatly affected the sector of social communication. in this sense of planning and adjustment of educational policies, we also understand the view that prevails in the revision of the contract of award of RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ), which many would like to see extinct as public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u455	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u456	I said that this review of the concession contract goes through a study and planning, in order to inform the best way about public policies. The question of misinformation — so vital and towards democracy — is also part of the State budget. The National Plan of Media Literacy will effectively start in 2023, enabling this component to be strengthened, particularly among the school population, involving people linked to journalism. in the same way, the Lusa Agency has a predictability and sustainability budget, insofar as its financial compensation amounts to EUR 16, EUR 68 million. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Budget for Social Communication is not only a Budget of Support as a Reformary Budget, which prepares public policies, contrary to many merely added proposals on things that already exist and that, above all, some of them mark a deep ignorance of the sector, proposing irresponsible, unrealistic measures that distort reality and destabilize the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-22.u457	This was the last intervention in today's plenary. I would like to announce that tomorrow the work begins at 10 a.m., with a first point on the discussion of the legal standards, with the times that are normal, then there will be a vote on the legal rules and, finally, will be given continuity to the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 38 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2023. I am taking advantage of our compliments to the Government and to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and wish us all a good lunch. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 56 minutes.]]
