ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, all parliamentary groups are properly represented, so we can start our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Before we enter our agenda today, we have the usual reading of the dossier, for which I address Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. First, I will realize that Bill No. 215 / XV / 1. a (CH) was not admitted and that they entered, and were admitted, the Resolution Project No. 151 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), Proposal for Resolution No 1 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission, and Draft Rules of Procedure Nos 8 / XV / 1. a ( L), 9 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 10 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), down to 1. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u3	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u4	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u5	Mr President, I would like to speak in accordance with Rule 77. that of the Rules of Procedure, protest against the decision taken by the Bureau of the non-admission of the Bill No 215 / XV / 1. a (CH) — It provides for an increase in the maximum prison sentence for 65 years in crimes of homicide committed with particular perverseness, particularly against children.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u6	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u7	Mr President, it's a pretty nice day out there today, but it's not a nice day for our democracy again. It is not a beautiful day for our democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u8	Here he comes again! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u9	Mr President's office which we received yesterday, already at the end of the day, realises that for the third time, in just a few weeks, Mr President used a power that he said he would use parchymony and very limitedly, prohibiting the admission of a bill. In the last veto you made to a bill, submitted by the Arrival, Mr. President used the argument of : '(...) for a term of unlimited duration(...)' — in fact, in the course of the constitutional text. Now the President has changed the version of the bill to meet the concerns that the President of the Assembly of the Republic has shown, and now Mr President says that in practice it is the same because the average life expectancy in Portugal is 80 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u10	Yeah, maybe! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u11	Let's see if we understand: the sorrows have nothing to do with the average life expectancy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u12	Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u13	If the average life expectancy in Portugal was 40 years, then it would mean that the penalty could not be over 24 years old. Let's have some good sense there! That which was written and said yesterday for you, Mr President, makes no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u14	Oh...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u15	So our protest is that this power, thus exercised, undermines democracy, feeds censorship against parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u17	... and does not allow discussion in plenary of proposals which should be democratically discussed by Parliament and which are not democratically vetoed by the President of the Assembly of the Republic. We are very sorry and, since there is no constitutional basis for this, we will take the appeal, which has already been handed over to your Office in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, if it is not referred to the Constitutional Court. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u18	Mr President, your protest seems to me, firstly, impetuous. The honourable Member has every right to appeal to my decision. In fact, you have already done well — your parliamentary group — to bring to my office an early copy of the action you want to present and I will not have it distributed - I will - as is right, to 1. the Commission, for this purpose. Then it will be marked for the next plenary session possible to assess the appeal brought by the Arrival and it will be the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, sovereignly, to determine whether my decision to refuse the admission of the draft law of the Arrival, which intends to impose a maximum sentence of 65 years in Portugal, should be admitted or not, whether my decision is valid or not. Therefore, your protest today is impetuous, because all the regulatory rights it has are duly guaranteed. I have neither vetoed nor vetoed anything; I exercise my powers and responsibilities, my duties, in terms of fact, which I announced in my statement of possession, and among these duties — one of the main tasks — is to ensure that the Assembly of the Republic does not discuss manifestly unconstitutional proposals, which, in my opinion, would only be disparaging the Assembly of the Republic itself. The honourable Member says that I have already refused the admission of three draft laws. It's true. I refused a bill that, in practice, wanted to end with the immunity regime of the constitutionally consecrated Members; I refused a bill that intended to restore life imprisonment in Portugal ; and now I refused a bill that intends to impose a maximum prison sentence of 65 years in Portugal. These three cases seem to me to be manifest and flagrant violations of the Constitution and, therefore, having said right at the beginning, here and at the Conference of Leaders, that it would be extremely partisan in the use of my powers in matters of non-admission of unconstitutional projects, I believe these are cases in which this parcimony is easily accommodated and that the criterion is transparent and evident. Let us first see what is the content of the appeal submitted by the Arrival, then what is the opinion of 1. the Commission and then all the parliamentary groups will take a decision here, in plenary session, in the eyes of all, and they will take the decision they better understand at the end. So, everything is running normally, there is no reason to protest, Mr. You could protest if I wasn't using all my statutory responsibilities; I am doing so and you are making use of all your rights. So let us not rush and quietly wait for the development of this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will now turn to the first item on today's agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of the Bill No. 15 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) and Law Projects Nos 2 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 3 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 63 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 64 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 161 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 162 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 163 / XV / 1. a (BE), 164 / XV / 1. a (BE), 165 / XV / 1. a (BE), 166 / XV / 1. a (BE), 167 / XV / 1. a (BE), 168 / XV / 1. a (BE), 169 / XV / 1. a ( L), 170 / XV / 1. a ( L), 174 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 175 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 176 / XV / 1. a ( PAN). To submit Law No. 15 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amending labour legislation within the framework of the Dignified Work Agenda has the floor of the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a special day, it is the day when the Government marks its first 100 days, and it is a day when we also realize, on this special day, one of the most important and ambitious reforms in labour legislation to reach millions of workers: the Fair Work Agenda and Youth Valuation in the Labour Market. This Agenda is the culmination of a long, worked and discussed process that started with the construction of the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which meets the demands of our time, but also the construction of our collective future. This agenda focuses on multiple dimensions of the labour market, expressed in 70 concrete measures, with four very clear objectives: the fight against precariousness and the appreciation of the promotion of decent work; the valorisation of young people in the labour market; the promotion of reconciliation between professional, personal and family life; and the real effective dynamisation of collective bargaining, promoting the participation of workers and the solutions constructed in accordance with the concrete situations of each reality, without being a single, massified sheet for all. This is a strong agenda, it is a courageous agenda and it is an ambitious agenda that the country needs and that young people need. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a sign that the country has to be able to give to young people and no one can stay out of it. This agenda responds to serious problems which, in an absolutely unacceptable way, persist in the labour market and Portuguese society. We have 62 % of young people in Portugal with non-permanent, precarious contracts, a value far above the European average, and in these precarious contracts on average wages are 40 % below permanent contracts. That's what we're talking about, and that's what we can't accept! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In a world where mobility is the rule and a Europe of free movement of persons, if we want young people to find reasons to take place in Portugal in order to decide to live here, we have, as Country, an obligation to provide them with different conditions that value them and that this Agenda identifies and implements as priorities. That is why, today, we are bringing concrete and decisive measures to give this response to workers, young people, businesses and the country. These measures are, of course, to combat the abuse of temporary work and eternal precariousness as a normal means of contracting, which is unacceptable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These measures also prohibit outsourcing substitution schemes after collective dismissal or termination of employment; by aggravated termination of end-of-work contracts for 24 days, in order to penalise and deter the use of unwarranted term contracts; by preventing permanent temporary life with temporary contracts, which prevent any stability or empowerment, for the first time, from imposing clear maximum limits, even with turnover, provided that the job is the same. We also for the first time bring here measures to condition the hiring of services by public bodies to the existence of labour stability of the workers of the service providers to the State. Only in this way do we fight cross-sectionally and strictly and seriously what we cannot accept, socially. To all this we associate intelligent and effective supervision, with the strengthening of the competences of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) and with the ability to cross-data and automatic detection of manifestly irregular and unacceptable situations. The Dignified Work Agenda is even a fundamental weapon to combat unequal worlds that affect workers in particularly vulnerable situations, of which are examples of atypical forms of work delivery, such as platform work, false independent work and undeclared work, which during the pandemic showed evidence of the number of people who were completely unprotected and out of the system. We therefore regulate here, for the first time, the contract on the platforms, creating the presumption that all are workers with equal rights, and we present a proposal for the criminalization of these situations, giving this judgment of social and criminal devalue for the unacceptable use of totally undeclared and totally unprotected work. Combating precariousness and valuing wages is certainly the best way to create conditions for attracting and retaining young people's talents, but it is also essential to dignify young people's access to the labour market. So we ended up with professional internships that were paid below the Labour Code. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So here we also simplify the contracts of workers-students; so here we also strengthen the guarantee of the protection of the rights of young workers-students, without loss of social benefits, without loss of scholarships or family allowance just because they continue to study. And that is why we want them to continue to study, qualify and transform their lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the bill we bring here today and discuss brings with us another ambition, which is evidence of what people today are increasingly seeking: to promote a real reconciliation between personal life, family life and professional life, in particular our young people. That is why we are bringing here measures which are, from the very outset, due to the need for express agreement of workers with children up to 6 years of age in special hourly arrangements and creating increases in licences in which there is real sharing between men and women, in the sharing of parental responsibilities, but also for the first time, by the possibility of combining traditional licences with the possibility of part-time work, allowing better manage the time of reconciliation with children, ensuring better monitoring and more flexible management of working time in the return of workers to the labour market, valued workers, who identify themselves with organizations and which organisations recognize as indispensable. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Agenda also devotes a key dimension here to strengthening collective bargaining as an instrument for valuing workers, promoting competitiveness and promoting real social dialogue. On the one hand, by extending collective bargaining for the first time to new forms of work and to new types of workers — particularly outsourcing workers or self-employed economically dependent workers — and, on the other hand, by introducing mechanisms for positive discrimination and conditioning access to national and European public support and incentives, but also to public procurement, in relation to companies with active social dialogue. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we want a country that affirms itself as an axis of latitudes in innovative forms of work, with the ability to attract and retain talent, the most necessary and valuable value for innovation and growth. Therefore, and for that, this agenda is fundamental, and it is fundamental to mobilising all, so that people feel and know that they have work opportunities in Portugal that really value them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is an Agenda for the Country, it is an Agenda for the Future, it is an Agenda that is based on ambition, courage, to respond to what young people are looking for and not to mend the past. This is the Agenda that responds to the challenges of the changing world, for a country that decisively needs workers to innovate and grow. This is the Agenda that promotes and dignifies the role of workers as an essential and central factor in our competitiveness. This is an agenda that, because it is strong, bothers many, but because it is strong, it fulfils its goal to defend millions and build our collective future. This is the agenda that Portugal needs, that we all need and that young people are waiting for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u20	The Minister has four requests for clarification and the Bureau has the indication that she will respond together to these requests for clarification. To make the first request for clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the BE Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u21	Mr President, the Minister, between the Government's original proposal, which was published in the Bulletin of Labour and Employment in October 2021 — and which the Minister and the Prime Minister took for election campaign — and the bill which she gave in June in this Parliament there are several differences. The most shocking is certainly about the digital platforms. The original proposal was in line with the jurisprudence movement that has existed in several countries — in Spain, England, Australia, France, Brazil, and that recognizes employment contracts between the workers of the platforms and the platform itself. In fact, a proposal which was also in line with the European directive which is under discussion and which is proposed. In Portugal, curiously, there is no contract of work between a worker and a platform because a single law has been created in the world to release the platforms of any employer responsibility by introducing an intermediary, which is, in the case, the TVDE operator (individual and paid passenger transport in uncharacterised vehicles from an electronic platform ). The Government's original proposal pointed to a positive change in the right direction; it was only that, in the wake of what took place in other countries, in the wake of the proposal for a European directive and in contradiction with it, the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which the Government itself promoted, the Minister and this Government, at the end of the hour and without public notice, gave way to the lobby of multinationals, with a surgical but explosive addition to the proposal, which introduces an intermediary — the worker himself, transformed into an individual employer — to release the platforms of employers' responsibilities, and still described the signs of labour which were in the initial proposal and which came from the Green Paper on the Future of Work. This disfigurement was so much that the Green Paper Coordinator on the Future of Work came to say, in the press, that what is in this proposal is not what was in the Green Paper, and that the amendment between the original proposal of the Government and the one which has given here, in this Parliament, will make the possibility of working contracts for workers of the platforms difficult. He came to criticize this camel. And it is serious, it is very serious, because it is the consecration of a scheme of multinationals to escape the application of labour law through that intermediary. It is a concession to a model of radical precarious work relations. But the « patronal vacuum cleaner », who went through the original proposal and who disfigured it, did other cleanings. It was 10 changes. For example: the original October proposal, published in the Bulletin of Labour and Employment, had a moratorium on the expiry of collective agreements, the expiry of collective labour contracts. What happened to this moratorium? Are you on this proposal? He's not, he's fallen, he's gone! The original proposal required transparency of labour costs. Do you remember that rule, Minister? It is a norm which aims at companies applying in outsourcing processes to provide services having to say what their cost structure is, to know whether they are dumping or not. It was a good, excellent proposal, which was in the original proposal — Article 419. the original proposal, an essential proposal, for example, for cleaning and surveillance contracts. What happened? That proposal is gone. He's gone! It was on the original proposal, but it's not on the one that was delivered. Thirdly, it has also disappeared — the Minister mentioned above the Public Contracts Code — the requirement for stable contracts to undertakings with which the State contracts. Sum of the proposal! There was a positive proposal, but it came out of the proposal! I ask you, Minister: why are these changes and backs all over the line? Who demanded these retreats? What lobbies did the government give in to? And I also ask the Socialist Party if it is willing to return to the original proposal, which the Government has disfigured. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u22	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to begin by asking you what is your explanation for the fact that neither a single union nor a single employers' confederation has supported this Dignified Work Agenda. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] It's true, it is! A party and a government that had said that they wanted so much social dialogue failed to convince a union or an economic confederation of patronage. So what's the reason they did it without any agreement and no way? But there is something that goes deeper than the Dignified Work Agenda announced by the Government : is that the Government presents this agenda for the transformation of labour law when it has not yet implemented the amendments it made in 2019. It is a little incongruent for you to come here to bring new changes to the labour law when even the others did not. So the country asks itself: what reason do we have to believe in you and your government? Let me give you an example: the rate of turnover. Where is he? Where's the turnover rate? Do you know where he is? It is nowhere because it does not exist, but it has been approved by the socialist majority. Madam Minister, we need to start looking at this seriously, it is not just to announce measures that we know they will never come into force. Then we're fooling the Portuguese with pomoso names — Dignified Work Agenda, improvements for the decade, the 2030s, things people like to hear but then never come into force. It was important, perhaps, to start by clarifying this: because it did not convince anyone — nobody in the social sphere! — that this is a worthy work agenda and why has it not even made the amendments and the entry into force of 2019 diplomas? And I've already given you the example of the turnover rate. Then I ask you if you saw this paper yesterday. The speaker displayed the cover of the Business Journal. There's Mrs. Minister on the cover of the paper. You see? Sometimes it happens! He's here! She said: « Portugal is one of the countries where double employment has increased». Do you know what I should be here to say to Parliament today? It is because the Portuguese have to have two jobs in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u25	Why do you have to have two jobs? Oh, my God! Before I came here with promises for 2024, 2026 and 2028, I should have come to explain this. As you are in Parliament today, explain whether you are proud to be a Minister in a country where most Portuguese have to seek a double job.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u27	He's here! The whole country saw this yesterday! He's here! So that's what I should have said here today, instead of the government being always doing the best thing, which is running forward, which is saying: "Well, now it's bad, but two or three years from now it's going to be better, because now it's the agenda for the Decade, now it's the great transformation of the socialist government". Mrs Minister, do you know what you should also be doing instead of bringing on-the-spot measures and more surgical remedies to work change? It should come with structural responses to young unemployment. It is because in Portugal the PS likes 'to fill the mouth' with unemployment in historical minimums, but if unemployment is at historical minimums, young unemployment is at historical peaks! [[PS protests.]] It's true! Mrs. Minister, it's true! I'm going to show you here, so you don't say it's not a fact. He's here. The speaker showed a news story. [[PS protests.]] If you want, I'll send it. I know that in the Socialist Internet country this is fake. Only there is another country that is not that of the socialist Internet, that is the Real Country, and that Real Country says so: « Portugal among the countries...». [[PS protests.]] I ask you to listen, you can't debate if you don't listen! I repeat : « Portugal among the countries where young people have grown up ». He's here! Therefore, the Minister comes here, speaks of two or three changes to the labour law, the Prime Minister calls him a dignified work agenda, we beat palms and the country, tomorrow, is exactly the same, without responding to its structural and structural problems. I think that the Minister should respond to this, because no specific study is needed, just look a little at the news of the last few days and she will see : « Young unemployed people continue to increase » ; « Portugal : increase in young unemployment » ; « Increase in young unemployment reaches record level ». Mrs. Minister, is everything fake? Oh, my God! Is this all a lie? Oh, my God! Is the PS being pursued by social communication and numbers? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] Let's have a little bit of seriousness there when we discuss this. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, yes, there are remedies in the labour law that have to be done, but do us a favor to all: do not make amends in a law when you have not yet applied the other law that PS itself brought here to apply. It just looks so bad! Open... Every day, outside, there is no Portuguese who believes in Parliament, because whenever we have a problem, it is a new great legal change that the Socialist Party proposes. Results at the end of two years: zero; at the end of four years: zero; at the end of six years the government will leave and the right that solves the rest of the problems. That's enough of that story and we're going on in the same thing. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PS Francisco César and CH Member Mr André Ventura's counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u28	For a request for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor. I call on the PS and arrive parliamentary groups to create the conditions. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP has the right not only to speak as to be heard. I had already told Montaigne that the word belongs to half who says it and half to those who listen to it, so half who listen to it has to hear it. Mrs Diana Ferreira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u29	Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Minister has come to present a proposal which has « decent work» in the name, but it is only in the name because objectively it does not guarantee conditions of dignity either at work or on day-to-day workers. The Minister does not commit herself to the urgent valuation of all wages and does not help to come to terms with the income agreement, because it is not possible to ensure dignity at work without a significant recovery of all wages, namely by restating the purchasing power that has been lost. This proposal maintains all cuts in wages and rights imposed on workers in previous legislative amendments, particularly during the time of the troika, either in the expiry of collective bargaining, in the supplementary work, in redundancies. In addition, the Government withdrew in several respects from its previous statements on this proposal and from its commitments in relation to the amendments to labour law, as well as from the issues of digital platforms. It does not present concrete measures to combat precariousness, does not compromise with the eradication of precariousness, maintains the experimental period and ends up legitimizing many other forms of precariousness that fatten in our country. It does not take the reduction of working hours, it does not combat time deregulations or the abuse that exists at this time in night work and in shift work. In fact, Mrs Minister, this proposal introduces elements that limit trade union freedom and trade union action, which is deeply unacceptable and quite serious. The Minister spoke here about young people, but what this proposal gives young people is a future of low wages and precariousness in our country. In view of this proposal, it is also easy to perceive the joy of employers' associations with the absolute majority of the PS, because they knew that this absolute majority would not block any of their interests, on the contrary, would deepen a path of fragility of labour rights. Madam Minister, is this even the answer that you have to give to thousands and thousands of workers who were on the streets yesterday to reject what is proposed here by the government? Is this really the dignity at work that the PS wants to assure the workers of our country? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u30	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. We are a constructive opposition, ladies and gentlemen, but this does not prevent us from pointing out a number of shortcomings in this bill. From now on, I'm highlighting three vices. A first breach has to do with the form of construction of this bill, which should have had, on its basis, a social agreement, an agreement between employers' representatives and workers' representatives. It didn't happen. The government went the wrong way and, instead of agreeing, the government imposed. The Government did not have the concern to dialogue, to approach points of view, to approach positions. He speaks a lot in dialogue, but in practice, the fact is that this dialogue is very little. A second vice which I stress here has to do with the form of combating precariousness. Madam Minister, we are all in favour of the fight against precariousness, but we cannot just stand by the words. It is because the government, when it reaches the action plan, does everything the opposite: it says that it wants to fight precariousness, but does not fight precariousness, and the example of this is what happens in the Public Administration. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u32	In recent years, the Government has increased precariousness in the State by about 50 %. Is that how you say you fight precariously? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u33	This is the reality and, therefore, the Minister, it is appropriate to say: « Well preach Friar Thomas, look at what he says, do not look at what he does». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u34	Another addiction, and the last one, which we pointed out here, has to do with the lack of income policy. Mr Minister, an agreement, such as what should be here on this subject, should necessarily include an income policy. When I talk about income policy I am talking about wages, pensions and reforms, and the government has not taken care of bringing this matter here, to discuss it at this very moment. Mr Minister, at a time when inflation is very high, above 4 %, that the Government was clearly talking about a loss of purchasing power. In the Public Administration, wages lead to a loss of purchasing power, in the other sectors wages lead to a loss of purchasing power, pensioners and pensioners have a loss of purchasing power. And it does not help the government to say that, from now on, pensioners will have an extraordinary increase in the pension, with retroactive effects, because, in fact, there is a loss of purchasing power. There is an increase in nominal terms, but pensioners and pensioners will lose purchasing power to buy milk, they will lose purchasing power to buy bread and even to buy medicines. The Minister explains to Parliament how she is able to speak on a decent work agenda without talking about income policy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u35	Everything would be different if the government had social conscience. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u36	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really the time for the debate here in the House. That's exactly what we're doing. This was a long, discussed, participated and balanced process in which we sought to find the maximum common denominator of the proposals, particularly in public consultation. And so, yes, we had the ability to evolve in response to our initial proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u38	Evoluar? Oh, my God! They disfigured the model!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u39	Our evolution has always been with a very determined objective and mission, which is our commitment to the country and to the workers to ensure that we strengthened all measures to ensure the fulfilment of this mission, which is very clear: a mission to combat precariously, a mission to promote reconciliation of personal and family life and also to strengthen social dialogue and effective collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u40	What about the Green Paper? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u41	I understand that the Left Block would perhaps like to have been a proposer of many of these courageous and strong proposals that we are presenting here today. Indeed, this is an agenda on which we have sought the greatest possible consensus with all, but because it is so strong, I believe that it is not possible to have everyone subscribe to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u42	Why did you put the middleman there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u43	But we will be very pleased if you vote in favour. I think they can hardly tell the workers because they are against measures that aim, in a unique and very strong way, to combat the precariousness of so many workers who are waiting for this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u44	Why did you put the middleman there? Oh, my God! Why didn't you get the Green Paper? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u45	I would also say that what we did was, exactly, to reinforce all the measures in which there were doubts, such as on the platforms, that there were doubts as to whether all the workers were covered. Our objective was, on the contrary, to strengthen, to ensure that all workers have a contract of employment, regardless of who they work for, they have a contract of employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u46	It's nothing like that there is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u47	Of course, in the House, we can improve any wording that has become unclear, we are always available for this, but we have also sought to translate exactly the European directive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u48	But it's not compatible with the directive!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u49	It was in this sense that we have dedicated these measures here. to the arrival I would say a beat phrase, which suddenly came to my memory: «Speak, speak, speak, and no one sees you do anything».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u50	But we're not in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u51	In fact, the big difference is action. What we have done is, permanently, to have the capacity to carry out, action and realization. That's what we did. We have great capacity for action. And now I ask the Arrival if it was thought that it was in full pandemic that we should have implemented the turnover rate for companies, at such a difficult time that they lived. [[CH protests.]] We can manage, adapt, permanently seek to mobilize our response according to the needs of the country, and that is what we have done. In fact, I would like to remind the honourable Member — who has certainly forgotten — of a government that supported, when in 2013 the youth unemployment rate reached 42 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura and PS Member's CounterProtests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] currently, it is below 20 %! Mr President, I would ask you not to be stuck in newspaper titles, and I would ask you not to be stuck in social networks. Mr. Deputies, be arrested in the country, to the needs of the country, to the responses to people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u52	Mrs. Minister, you have to do the right thing to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u53	Mr President, I conclude by saying that this is also a proposal for balance, which seeks to respond to this compromise with the country, in addition to what we are doing, in particular the discussion of the income and competitiveness agreement in terms of social consultation, which is critical for this to happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u54	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The general value of wages is a national emergency and a central element in the guarantee of dignity in the lives of workers, especially in a country with a low-wage economy, where more than 11 % of workers are impoverished at work, where the national minimum wage is not sufficient for the expenses to be borne by workers and families. But in view of the current situation, in which workers are daily losing purchasing power and whose wage increases do not correspond to the brutal increase in the cost of living, the urgency of concrete measures to change this reality is even greater. When we defend the general value of wages we do not only talk about the increase of the national minimum wage to the €850 in the short term or the increases necessary for the Public Administration, in addition to those that have been the political options of the Government, we also talk about collective bargaining. Collective recruitment is a fundamental tool for the distribution of wealth created, to increase average wages, to define night and shift subsidies, work-time organizations or other remunerative components and other labour and social rights resulting from this instrument. The right to negotiate and collective bargaining is recognised to workers in the Constitution and integrates the list of fundamental rights enshrined in international conventions. And it is the strength of this instrument which enshrines rights and which has represented a sign of progress in labour relations which so disturbs the patronage—especially the great patronage—and the parties who defend it. Expiration only benefits employers, because employers' associations are given the possibility of, by refusing to negotiate, expiring collective labour contracts, questioning their rights, blackmailing workers and their trade unions, placing them before the false alternative between expiry or an agreement for the reduction of rights. The CFP proposes the end of this expiry of collective bargaining and the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle, thus also preventing the possibility that standards below the law may be negotiated. For the valuation of other remunerative components, we propose the replacement for all workers of the amounts and rules for calculating the payment of extraordinary work, additional work and on holiday or weekly rest day. Considering the deregulation of working hours and the use of various instruments for this purpose, the CFP proposes the repeal of all adaptability mechanisms and hourly banks that still persist, ending with hours of cancellation that workers are obliged to give to employers. It is that hourly banks, hourly intermittents, individual and group adaptability, availability time and part-time work with intermittents only translate into an increase in working time without charge to the employer and with tremendous damage to workers and their families. And if civilizational advances in technical and scientific fields allow today to produce more, with better quality and in less time, then these advances must be at the service of better working conditions and living conditions for workers. Only labour legislation that resumes its nature of protection of the weakest part in labour relations, workers, is compatible with progressive perspective and with economic and social development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u56	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u57	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Mrs. Members: Still on the platforms, what this version of the proposal delivered to Parliament was to disfigure what was in the Green Paper on the Future of Work on Platforms. We know where this proposal comes from. It is not a clarification, because at the time, multinationals, platforms, defended this disfigurement, had already proposed it. We know that they had already proposed the model of the intermediaries, and it is not there, Mrs Minister, in the proposal that you put forward, « contracts for all». That's not how it is. Moreover, the wording in the proposal that the Government has submitted is incompatible with the European directive, because the European directive does not speak of intermediaries, it speaks of the recognition of the working relationship between the worker and the platform. The challenge is made to the Socialist Party to return to the initial formulation and restore, in the bill, what was in the Green Paper on the Future of Work. But the concept of decent work was proposed, as it is known, by ILO (International Labour Organization) over 20 years ago, to appoint four requirements in the framework and regulation of work: respect for fundamental rights, trade union freedom, and the right to collective bargaining; elimination of discrimination at work and eradication of forced labour; promoting quality employment; expanding social protection and strengthening collective labour relations. Now, beyond what has changed between the first version and the version that has been handed over from the Government's proposal, there are also large and remarkable absences in this proposal, which the Left Block comes to an end with eight draft laws that it presents in this House and for this discussion. The government's proposal does not touch the courts of the troika and therefore, by not touching the courts of the troika, it places them in the stone of labour law in Portugal. The Block has proposed the replacement of the three days of vacation that were cut in the troika period, the replacement of the value of extraordinary work, overtime, which was cut to half and which was not replaced, and also the replacement of the value of redundancy compensation. But can a proposal on decent work completely ignore about 800,000 workers working for shifts and night work in Portugal, who have lives in counter-light and counter-reloyal, whose rest times the law does not protect, whose penosity of work is not recognised, in particular, for the purpose of reform or increase of holidays? The Left Block presents a bill to protect and recognize the rights of shift workers. Can a Dignified Work Agenda maintain this staggering norm that prevents a worker from challenging an illegal dismissal if he does not return to his employer a compensation that is yours? This rule is so humiliating to the worker that António Guterres took it out of the law, but the right-wing replied it and the Socialist Party, in this dignified Work Agenda, maintains this loving rule in the law. The Left Block proposes to eliminate it. Will there be decent work if we keep long, unregulated jobs? The Government has launched the debate on the four-day working week, but does not move on working hours in this proposal, and the Bloc proposes that 35 hours be spent also in the private sector as a normal working time. Will there finally be decent work if there are collective contracts with worse standards than the general law? The general law should be the back of the ground of working conditions and collective hiring should serve to raise the standards of the dignity of work. The Left Block proposes the end of the unilateral expiry of contracts and the replacement of the most favourable treatment. These proposals from the Left Block will certainly be a guarantee that we will be walking towards the dignity of work and not its devaluation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u58	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Tavares also spoke on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u59	Mr President, let us hope that this reference to the parliamentary group can one day be considered prophetic. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ministers, Secretary of State : The struggle for 40 hours of work, for the right to unemployment benefit, for the week of five days and for so many other labour rights has indelibly marked the 19th and 20th centuries and we are still indebted to this struggle today. That is why the best way to pay tribute to you is to defend today's workers' rights. It is in this sense that the Free House joins the debate we are having here today in this House of the Republic on the Dignified Work Agenda with two proposals: one which also intends to extend to private workers at 35 hours a week, with 7 hours a day, already in public work, and also a proposal that extends the rights of parenthood under the Labour Code, strengthening the rights of children and gender equality in parenthood. If the struggles of the 19th and 20th centuries have linked us to a social state in which we do not want to go back one millimeter, the truth is that today there are life forms, there are lifestyles that we must follow, giving more flexibility to those who work and to those who need to be supported by social security. The Free will also accompany proposals from the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the NAP in the area of the expiry of collective labour conventions, in the area of workers' rights of the platforms or, for example, in the area of gestational mourning, because we believe that contributions are essential here to raise the dignity of workers in Portugal. And the Free will continue to work — as it has already done in the State budget, which we have just voted on recently — in the sense that, as we have done with the pilot project for the four-day week of work or as we have also done in the context of extending the unemployment allowance to victims of domestic violence, we can meet new borders with regard to working rights. To a large extent, the Dignified Work Agenda, which brings us here, has positive elements, but also some disappointment elements and we hope that, in the specialty, we can all contribute to improving it. Finally, Mr President, I would like to correct an injustice. Yesterday I referred to the Liberal Initiative as being here the class party of the bosses. It's unfair because it's not just the Liberal Initiative. We must regret that none of the parties on the right present a proposal on workers' rights today. Dear colleagues from the Hemicycle parties in half to our right, here in the Assembly of the Republic, remember that 4 million Portuguese are workers and that they also need to be legislated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u60	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Almost 8 out of 10 new contracts in Portugal are termed or green receipts; 1 out of 5 Portuguese workers has long-term contracts; 1 out of 10 workers in 2020 was poor. This is the social portrait and the image of working conditions in Portugal: wage poverty and precariousness, essentially young. We agreed today to hear that France will take measures, such as the increase in public service and old age pensions, the control of gas prices and electricity, but the proposal we have today on the table and that it should also address some of these problems, particularly on our country's salary route, is somehow shy and virtually non-existent in some areas, such as equality. It is said in this Government proposal that the issues of precariousness and the challenges of reconciling professional and family life compromise equality between men and women, but little or nothing is done to prevent men and women from receiving the same monthly average salary for the same functions in just 30 years, when we know that the gap in inequality is almost 100 years. The Government's commitment to meeting the needs of women and the commitment of this Assembly of the Republic to promoting measures aimed at achieving gender equality is necessary. And speaking today, in the middle of the twenty-first century, in decent work can only rule out women's rights. First, the NAP presents an initiative that aims to enshrine an already achieved right in the neighbouring country and in some other ordinations: a menstrual license for women and people with uterus who may suffer incapacitating pain during menstruation. And before they rush to shout 'or want equality or leave', I suggest they read the proposal. Inequality is what exists now, in this time. Inequality is to force those who feel incapacitating pain or who have not been diagnosed with an associated disease, for reasons that exceed those who suffer them, to work in conditions for which they are unable. More: If men were to have similar incapacitating pains, we would certainly not be talking or questioning whether or not it is a right, because it would simply exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u62	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u63	Secondly, the NAP proposes an extension of the duration of the initial parental leave and an equal leave, thus implementing the recommendations of the World Health Organization, which is essential for parents and for the development of the child and for the possibility of building ties with children. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, but by far less important, the NAP wants to be expected to mourn for gestational loss, because the loss of a baby during pregnancy or shortly after birth represents a real impact on the life of a couple and woman. We therefore believe that this urgency should not end in the hospital and that the right to mourning should be recognised to all these mothers who lost their babies during pregnancy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u64	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister : Today we are discussing the Agenda for Dignified Work and Youth Valuation in the Labour Market. It is a bill that introduces profound changes in labour legislation and takes another step in that which is, and has always been, a priority for the Socialist Party: to strengthen workers' rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The defense of the dignity of work is the heart of socialist governance, and it is in fidelity to this principle that we have made our journey over the past few years, with various measures of progress, improvements and more labour rights, and the Portuguese workers well know the difference that the Socialist Party has made in their lives. I recall the historical increase in the national minimum wage, which had 40 % increase since 2015 ; the increase in the average wage of 22 % since 2015 ; the replacement of holidays ; the full replacement of wages and holiday and Christmas allowances ; the Programme for the Regularization of Prearranged Links in the Public Administration ; the strengthening of the protection of workers to green receipts ; the share of access for persons with disabilities ; the regulation of telework, including the duty to refrain from contact by the employer ; the end of the individual hour bank ; the new law to combat forced labour ; the new law for the transmission of enterprises ; the strengthening of protection of temporary workers ; the increase of parental leave; the limitation of termination of recruitment. Finally, it could continue here until the end of the debate that it would not be able to exhaust all the measures taken by the Socialist Party to protect workers' rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have done so by improving not only the lives of those who work, but those who have had trouble in life and need the social state. But it's also good to remember that I heard the PSD here talking about pensions and, Mr. Members, when the PSD talks about pensions, I should first of all apologize to the pensioners, because pensioners tremble. The pensioners are trembling! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u66	Respect, please!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u67	It is that we also protect those who have worked their entire lives, successively increasing the reforms, which today correspond to more 3, 8 billion euros since 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If this isn't progress, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not a socialist government, where is it? The result of this was more work. It was more employment, under all indicators and in all sectors of activity, and it was better employment: better employment in the quality of employment, better employment in labour stability and better employment in the remuneration of work. Today we have the maximum number of workers with declared remuneration. It is more than 1 million workers than we had in 2015 and we have a maximum of declared salaries, more than 41 % than 2015. If this is not to improve the lives of workers, which is to improve the lives of workers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u68	But we're not satisfied. We are not satisfied and, therefore, what are we doing today? It is to give continuity to the road already begun, a path with more rights, with more job dignity, combating precariousness and valuing incomes. We don't want rhetorical changes, we even want real changes. What we are bringing here is not one-sided changes to labour law. What we bring here is a real reform of work, a reform that remains for history because, unlike those that the right has always done in our country, it is a reform that gives rights rather than rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u69	Come on, come on! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u70	It is a reform that improves the lives of those who work rather than deregulate, flexibly and precariously, as always did the right hand when it was in power, when it moved into labor laws. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] Many measures have already been detailed here by the Minister of Labour and I do not have time to deepen them, but I would like to point out, according to all that I have heard, six major axes of this reform. [[What about the platforms?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u71	First of all, the promotion of sustainable employment and the fight against precariousness, particularly in young people, with many measures, which would emphasize the extension of the termination of contracts, the imposition of a minimum percentage of framework contracts for temporary workers, the strengthening of the rules on the succession of contracts or the criminalisation of the use of undeclared work. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Secondly, the regulation of new forms of work, the regulation of transformations in the digital economy, including the presumption of work contract with the platform based on substantive criteria, which may not be the platform but the company for which the worker performs this work. The contract of employment will happen. Thirdly, the strengthening of collective labour relations and collective bargaining. Fourthly, the strengthening of protection for young workers and students in vocational training, eliminating the possibility of paying less than that provided for in the Labour Code. Fifthly, the improvement of the reconciliation between work and family life, focusing on parental leave and the protection of workers and informal caregivers. Finally, the strengthening of the inspection conditions, strengthening the powers of the Working Conditions Authority to identify irregularities in dismissals, as you did, in fact, during the pandemic. This is a balanced proposal, it is a fair proposal, it is a proposal that puts the emphasis on decent work. We really want to respond to all, in dialogue with all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u72	Respond well to the bosses! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u73	And we will never give up on that. We have had five social agreements since 2015, so we have not received lessons on social dialogue by the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That is how it is — regardless of the noise that the honourable Members are making. Members can do—that we will not give up, that is what we propose here, and it is for this challenge that we have all those who want to move the country forward, with more rights, with more income and with more protection. That is the challenge here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u74	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Liberal Initiative presents a set of criticisms of this legislation, called « decent work », which is being discussed today. Of course, and first of all, I mean the process. The Minister said, well, that 100 days have been completed since the beginning of this Parliament, or rather the taking up of the government. It is 100 days, a lot of congratulations, but the Minister is here alone because, in social consultation, she has not achieved a single support for the proposal she brings here. Congratulations, Mrs. Minister, for being alone on such a special day. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Minister, this is a partial proposal. If it is true that work must be worthy, there must also be a worthy justice, or at least speed, a worthy fiscal framework and also a bureaucracy, or lack of it, worthy. And only with all dignity can one speak of decent work, because, if everything else is not assured, what we are talking about is a partial intervention which only debalances the labour market more. More, Mrs Minister: we are in favour of collective bargaining, but there is no collective negotiation that can be useful to the country and the social partners when the Government has a permanent intervention in labour law and takes space for partners to understand and develop decent working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u76	That's ideological prejudice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u77	It's true, it's an ideological question and we assume that. The society that you want is completely different from what we propose, which is founded on merit, success and development. It's completely different, we're entirely in agreement. [[Applause from the IL.]] You're killing collective bargaining, and that's why you're here alone today. There are technical issues in this proposal that we do not follow. It is true that there are 2019 legislation that has not yet been implemented, which we understand because there was the pandemic. It was precisely because of the pandemic that it was impossible to test legislation approved in 2019. But you, on a layer of legislation approved in 2019 and which has not yet been tested due to the pandemic, now propose a new layer of legislation. You, as far as you are concerned, legislate, on what you are still moving, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, and on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, and on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, on what you are going to be doing, and, on what you are going to be doing, you are going to be paying. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some red lines here. A first red line: you are, in fact, strengthening the powers of the Act, probably making it unconstitutional and seriously violating the principle of the separation of powers. We cannot accept this type of intervention when it is certain that the Act itself, in practice, has no power or means to carry out the supervision to which it was required and that you do not provide it. Nor can we accept, for example, a proposal for trade union activity in companies that do not have trade unions. It doesn't make any sense, we don't follow. To finish my invention...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u78	« Invention», says very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u79	To conclude my speech, I quote Mr. Secretary of State Miguel Fontes — therefore, I will not mention anyone from my bench, nor Mr. Cotrim Figueiredo, nor Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, who said: "In view of the heterogeneity of the sectors of activity and the profiles of companies, it is difficult for the legislator to accommodate all the responses in the law, which is, by nature, abstract and generic. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u80	That is why we have unlocked the social consultation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u81	We agree, Secretary of State. That is why you have to leave room for social dialogue and collective bargaining and cannot have a permanent, thorough and pernicious intervention in the labour market. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u82	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the Bill No. 15 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ). I begin by clarifying that we have nothing to block as regards its purpose or its designation, since, in the field of the defence of the good values of the European social model, one will never oppose the objectives of this kind, such as the promotion of employment and its quality, the reduction of precariousness or the encouragement of collective bargaining. However, the problem begins as soon as we analyze the process that was before. As always, in terms of labour law, we are fighting for the necessity of rigour in terms of social consultation with a view to obtaining agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u85	The PSD sought whenever amendments to the Labour Code resulted from tripartite understandings, a balanced result of the seemingly divergent reconciliation of interests between work and capital. We defend that partners and governments must always, in the first instance, seek to generate the necessary understanding of the common interest, which the government has systematically and olympically ignored. instead, it acts in this plan through mere formal hearings, void of a real effort to obtain an agreement, as, in fact, it is well demonstrated in this proposal of law, in which the social partners do not see themselves at all. Clearly, the lack of dialogue is growing as a brand of the Socialist Party. By the PCP or the Left Block, such would not be strange. This requires a dialectical and conflicting view of the class in the labor relationship, categorically removing convergences at the center of consultation. But, in this case, no bad management serves as an excuse. In the current picture of an absolute majority, the instinctive push of political survival is no longer involved in ensuring the power of the PS. With an absolute majority, PS and Government reinvested in the practice of devalued concertation. What was previously for political convenience, now comes from the vertigo of absolute power. [[PSD applause.]] We completely oppose the damage that this practice causes to concertation, to the confidence of the social partners and, of course, to the outcome of the Leonine proposals. Social dialogue is an institutional stage for reconciling interests between companies and workers, and cannot be replaced by the government and / or Parliament. Make it clear. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the notable purposes of the proposal under discussion is the fight against precariousness, which we naturally agree with. But it is worth remembering that the Government is not only a political body, it is, par excellence, the driving body of the country's general policy and, in the general context of its constituent institutions, the largest employer in Portugal. And, as far as the fight against precariousness is concerned, the State, under the management of the Socialist Party, could not be more relaxed. Otherwise we saw: analyzing employment data in public administrations in September 2015, the beginning of socialist governance, there were 63 254 long-term workers ; in March 2022, the number rose to 94 730, i.e. more 31 476 precarious workers, corresponding to an increase of 49, 8 % in State precariousness. [[PSD applause.]] On June 30, 2021, 95,217 public workers were on a long-term contract, the largest number since there was memory. In April 2017, in an interview with Renascença Radio, the Prime Minister categorically said the following : « One of the fundamental rules is that precariousness is prohibited, service provision contracts should only be used for service delivery situations. Those who are in permanent, regular employment shall be entitled to a contract. » Dead language, therefore. Nothing, noverba. For the PSD, in this matter as in others, with this Socialist Party the motto is « to see to believe ». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u86	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor to speak on behalf of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Madam Minister, in response to what I have said about arriving — that we have spoken, spoken, talked and not put forward proposals — I would like to remind you of the more than 300 amendments to the State budget for 2022 that we have tabled. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u88	When we present concrete questions, the Minister always answers by looking at the rearviewer. What matters is the future, not the past. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Speaking of the Dignified Work Agenda, your obsession with controlling the national economy is killing private initiative and diverting foreign investment. There is no point in having a decent Work Agenda without an agenda for competitiveness and income, but also agendas for decent economic growth, a decent tax burden and a decent contribution system should be implemented. It is only possible to give better conditions to those who work when we can give better conditions to those who work. Portuguese companies are recovering from a pandemic in a difficult geopolitical context due to the war in Ukraine, fighting day by day for the survival and maintenance of their jobs, but they continue to pay the highest fuel and energy prices in Europe, they continue to be crushed by one of the greatest tax burdens of all time, they remain subject to an aggressive contribution system. But still, VV. For example, they do not prevent themselves from wanting to condition further, with a castrative document, stamped with words such as « force », « limit » and « ban ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u90	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country does not need palliative care, the country needs structural measures, but to that end there is a need for active presence of a Prime Minister and ministers with maturity and responsibility for men of state. There is no political courage to make substantive decisions and to move with established interests. There is no need to break stigmas, abandon ideological questions and fight for the good of the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u91	For an intervention on behalf of the PS, Mr Fernando José has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u92	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: Since the end of 2015 the Government has been setting a set of priorities in regulating the labour market with a view to promoting decent work, promoting employment and its quality, reducing precariousness and encouraging collective bargaining. The Dignified Work Agenda for Youth in the Labour Market is the result of the Green Paper on the Future of Work launched in 2020, with broad debate at the heart of social dialogue and with the involvement of civil society. Realizing the difficulties of the right to move forward on an agenda for decent work and to abandon the austere times of austerity, in which wage cuts, increasing the hourly load and redundancies in the public service were seen as promoters of productivity, and also understanding the difficulties of the left to the left of the PS in focusing its action after the return to the condition of protest parties, the Socialist Party moves decisively on a path for which everyone is summoned and in which contributions are expected, in a dialogue in which consensus is fundamental. This is therefore the time to act in dialogue, seeking consensus and solutions, facing with determination the enormous challenges that lie ahead. Having arrived here, it is necessary to reaffirm, with redoubled determination, the path taken after years of austerity, a path for the replacement of rights, combat the precariousness of work, return of income available to families and densification of labour rights. The replacement of 35 hours in public service and the return to workers of gross wage cuts, holiday allowances and Christmas are examples of this. As is also the example of the regularization and inherent integration of thousands of precarious links in the Public Administration and the scrapping of the black lists on the right that was beyond the troika and that cut the rule and frame, disinvesting in the human capital of public services. What would be the social security response today if the PS had not reversed the hundreds of redundancies provided for by those who today demand more and better answers? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reduction in the maximum duration of contracts for a certain and uncertain term, the strengthening of the ACT, meeting for the first time the ratios required by the ILO, and the reduction of the time limit for the issue of extension gates are other examples of the path taken. And even in an unprecedented context of crisis, there was no step back in the achievements achieved. It was a crisis fought with solidarity and not austerity. This wasn't running forward, this isn't zero. They are facts, it is reality, confidence and certainty in the proposals that we bring on the agenda today. in this right way, collective bargaining gave in 2021 signs of recovery against 2020, with 282 Collective Labour Regulation Instruments ( CRT ) published, representing an increase of 9 % of published CRT and an increase of 30 % of workers involved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also worth highlighting the real wage variation in collective bargaining, which in 2021 was 3.7 %, the highest value of the decade. in this way, we have not only made a policy of minimums. Between 2015 and 2021, the average monthly gross remuneration increased by 12 % to 1300 € in September 2021. What proves that not only are wages to be raised, but also income taxes to be lowered, is that the average monthly net income rose 22, 5 %. I should like to conclude by saying that, here they are, resilient with always determined, as never before, we will continue to walk with pragmatism and ambition, with the designs put forward in the Dignified Work Agenda and the Valuability of Youth in the Labour Market as goals in an integrated work, in which it is essential to improve the instruments for regulating the labour market and promoting decent work in its different dimensions. All of this with aggregate gains for a more quality labour market — more inclusive, more cohesion, balanced and with more transparent competition conditions — and with the deepening of a strategy of a public policy aimed at promoting decent work, particularly for young people. Now, on this right path, together we follow and succeed! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u93	For an intervention on behalf of the IL, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, the weekly working time is 40 hours and on average workers work 38 hours per week. With the same law, in Spain you work 36 hours and in Finland 35 hours. With the same law, in the Netherlands you work 31 hours a week, less than 7 hours in Portugal. In France, despite being one of the few countries with a weekly time of 35 hours, people work on average 36 hours, almost as many as in Portugal and more than in many more developed countries, which have a weekly time of 40 hours. This may surprise those who have a direct vision, who think that the illusions and demagogies of politicians overlap with the laws of the economy. However, what this means is that the first and most important engine of reducing working hours is not the will of politicians, but the ability of the economy to develop to improve the conditions of all. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u95	One day, ladies. Members, the 35-hour law will be passed in this House, after the 30-hour law and then the 25-hour law, and out there. If we allow the economy to develop, we will be able to reach all these levels without prejudice to our level of consumption and our ability to pay for better public services. The Netherlands could probably already have 35 hours today at no cost. But she can do it because it has developed economically to the point that many people can live better than we work 35 or up to 30 hours a week. Why did you do it? Because an average worker in the Netherlands produces in 26 hours as well as an average worker in Portugal in 40 hours. It is not the fault of the Portuguese workers, because when they go there, they produce as much or more than the Dutch. The fault lies with the different conditions that both countries give them to produce. What they like to call "wild liberalism" or "defense of patrons" allowed a country to develop itself enough to make people live better working less hours a week. [[PS protests.]] What socialism, in Portugal, sells as illusions, liberalism, in the Netherlands, guarantees as reality. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u96	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u97	There are too many Members here who even think that they can fool Portuguese people with promises to increase wages by 20 % while working hours are reduced, if the holiday time is increased, if they pay an RBI (unconditional basic income) to everyone, if they invest more in public services, all of this with an economy to decrease and make life black to businesses and investors. [[Applause from the IL.]] This world of duends and unicorns may seem plausible after a few days breathing the airs of the Boom Festival, but reality is a very different thing. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be much easier for us to come here to sell illusions of working less to earn more, but reality is a very different thing. We are not here to deceive a generation with false promises and illusions, we are here to talk about the reality as it is, of what we have, of what works in other countries and of what one day we may have in Portugal, if the voters no longer believe in demagogy and illusions. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u98	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To value wages, in favour of collective bargaining, the rights which it enshrines, with the end of its expiry and also restates the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker; to restore wages and rights cut by the PSD and the CDS Government and that the PS so far refuses to change in labour law; to end work time, which translates into bosses, eliminating instruments that promote the deregulation of working hours — these are the proposals presented by the CFP in this House today, responding to the needs that workers feel every day at their workplaces, proposals that aim to strengthen wages and restore and strengthen rights. This is the way that guarantees dignity at work and not the proposal that the Government brought about this morning's discussion, because this proposal keeps cuts in wages and rights. This proposal has instruments that legitimize precariousness and maintains these instruments in labour law. This proposal does not take the eradication of precariousness or the general recovery of wages, and it does mean considerable setbacks in the labour and social rights of workers. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no developed country without valued workers. However, the workers are not valued with the proposal put forward by the Government here. The way goes, yes, by the proposals that the CFP brings to the vote. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u100	To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Labour, Miguel Fontes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that this debate has clearly and clearly left which side is the reason and determination to deal with the problems that the labour market has today and that Portuguese society shows every day. With this proposal — which is not a proposal limited to one or more aspects, but which takes part in more than 10 legal diplomas, with more than 70 measures — the Government is seeking to bring about a profound reform of the labour market, with the benefit of the workers, especially the younger ones. This is because the government knows what problem it is addressing, and that is the problem of confronting us with the need to create conditions so that all those who do work can be properly dignified and respected. We are not those who think that the economy always comes first and that there will always be time to deal with the conditions of those who work, a time that never comes because, in understanding these, money, economy, productivity are always the same. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u102	With PS, the economy always goes last!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u103	No, Mr President, this Government is well aware that convergence with the European Union is also being played here, because we have to have an economy that is competitive, productive, but within rules of dignity, rules that value talent and workers, rather than gains of productivity or competitiveness on account of the rights of those who work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable to hear of setbacks today on an agenda that should be filled with pride—yes, I stress, pride! — the left-wing political forces sitting in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the reform which was further in the implementation of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u104	Tell that to the bosses!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u105	And it is not often that we repeat the same statements that they will become a reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u106	It is no use talking about workers' rights when the proposal is not worthy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u107	This is the agenda that brings to the debate the real problems and the real answers, with pragmatism, without ideological clichés, but with the firm will to solve the problems faced by young people in particular. [[Rice from PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]] Mr José Soeiro, I cannot fail to take this opportunity to say the following: please repeat the question of digital platforms, because this proposal does not go back. This proposal does exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u108	No, don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u109	This proposal is a firm fight against all the illegitimate and unprotected forms that exist today under the platforms, regardless of who recommends them and who promotes them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u110	Limit your freedom!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u111	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for concluding.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u112	For us, it is indifferent to know whether they are platforms or intermediaries, what we want to protect are the rights of those who operate in them as workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u113	Multinationals do what they want!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u114	That is what this bill solves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u115	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for concluding.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u116	Mr President, I conclude by saying that this is the bill that the country can be proud of and is the bill that the country needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u117	The great patronage needs this proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u118	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u119	For an appeal to the Bureau, Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u120	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u121	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u122	Mr President, this plea is intended to ask the Bureau to distribute two documents, which are the separate one where the original proposal is and the bill. As far as the bill is concerned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council knows it, of course, since it was presented by you, but perhaps he did not read the original proposal of October. I would therefore like to deliver, because it is the very coordinator of the Green Paper on the Future of Work that says that the amendment that has been made restricts the scope of the law and makes it possible to truly have a working relationship between the digital platform and the provider. It is enough, in fact, to read the statements of the lawyers, today, in the Express and in the Public. So I wanted to ask you to distribute these two documents to the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u123	Mr President, the second document is distributed by nature, since all Members have access to the proposed legislation here. For the first, to save paper, the Bureau will distribute the link where the document can be consulted. We will move on to the second point of the agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 41 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The law on circular and ecological public purchases is created, 142 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Establishs measures to promote ecological design and increase the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, 159 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Set criteria for public services and green, sustainable and socially just purchases, 160 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish measures to promote durability and guarantee of equipment to combat programmed obsolescence and 171 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the legal regime for green and circular public purchases. To submit Bill No. 41 / XV / 1. a, from the PSD, I give the floor to Mr Nuno Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u124	I would like to congratulate the President and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. A missed opportunity does not mean a last chance and, indeed, the issue we are dealing with here today is fundamental to the inevitability arising from climate change. It is a subject that we have to deal with, and today's proposal creates a fundamental mechanism so that we can, responsibly, combat climate change and also try to raise awareness of society as a whole and very, very, very important one, raise awareness of the productive fabric of our country. With the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and the Community funds, the size of the State investment, the public procurement of the State, will significantly increase, which means that the opportunity we are talking about today gains a much greater dimension, gains significantly greater weight, and, of course, is also related to the competitiveness of our companies, because the environmental criteria that uphold this bill are also the environmental criteria that are practised by many countries where our companies export. When a purchase is addressed to any company, when any public offer is launched, the environmental criterion is a criterion for acquisition, which means, therefore, that it is also a way of trying to train our companies and make them out there to compete from an environmental point of view, either in their process or in their product, and apply the environmental criteria that are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this issue is not new, and it has also been dealt with in a resolution of the Council of Ministers and also in a document which the Court of Auditors specifically referred to the lack of application, the lack of implementation of the ambition of terms of public administration to carry out ecological public procurement for a better economy, for a circular economy. This ambition did not have this applicability and failed cross-sectionally in all ministries. In fact, there was no capacity to execute it. [[PSD applause.]] So today this application is justified in the form of a law. It is essential that we have criteria that establish environmental sustainability, energy efficiency, which establish a true capacity for the life cycle of each product to be applied, so that the energy transition can occur cross-sectionally in our productive tissue. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, effectively, in practice, this bill does not only summon the political force of each parliamentary group, it is not a bill in which we are only lending the intelligence of our best arguments, it is a bill with which we have to act with full responsibility, because the matter calls us, in fact, to responsibility, which is not only of the present generation, but also of future generations. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]] The President — To submit Bill No 142 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u125	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already said, and we repeat again, that we are only seven years from the point of non-return, and this date must call us for effective measures to promote the reduction of the waste we produce and also for political options, including in public procurement, which reflect the urgency of the action. Public markets in Portugal represent 9 % of GDP (gross domestic product) and are therefore an important instrument of environmental policy. thus, any public policy on climate action should also begin by public entities. In recent years much has been done on the basis of European Union law, but that is not enough. It is sufficient to see the implementation—which has already been mentioned here by the previous Member—which was also pointed out by the Court of Auditors, which states that the National Strategy for Ecological Procurement was implemented only by 20 % of the priority goods and services, which is clearly not difficult to achieve, since the basic work is done by the European Union itself, and it is only necessary to adapt it to national reality. A report from APA (Portuguese Environment Agency), IMPIC (Instituto des Markets Públicos, Real Estate and Construction) and from other entities shows the lack of involvement of the business sector of the State and local authorities in the pursuit of this same strategy. in this sense, the NAP presents proposals that aim to overcome detected insufficiency. We propose a legal regime for green and circular public procurement which provides that, from 1 January 2023 onwards, all public entities must have one of the environmental criteria for the implementation of the contract in proceedings for the formation of public procurement. These criteria include, inter alia, sustainability, environmental or social in the way in which contract purchases are carried out; energy efficiency; short distribution circuits, so-called "short chains", promoters of the circular economy; or use of products of local origin or biological production. We would also like to see the role of the environmental requirements enforcement officer created in public entities, which will ensure that the environmental objectives contracted are properly implemented and therefore a long-term gap has been found in public bodies. Finally, because planned obsolescence is a problem that affects and affects the environment and consumer rights, for which very little has been done in our country, we also propose that consumers know the durability of their product and thus see their rights strengthened as regards their repair. We're seven years from the non-return point, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and they are measures such as these, pragmatics, which can make a difference in combating the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u126	To submit Bill No. 159 / XV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our people often say that "the cheap is expensive", and when we look at the environmental costs of some of the cheapest productions, we realize that in fact the price does not say everything about how the costs come to our life. Just look, for example, at how much drought is costing our country, how much climate change, in its most harmful version, with extreme phenomena, costs recurrently. Seeing what happened in the Azores, with the destruction of ports, etc. , and the recurring things of this kind seen all over the world—filled, floods, extreme phenomena—we realize that, every time we look at a purchase only and only for its price, we are, in fact, making an irresponsible choice. As the State is one of the largest buyers in the country, it cannot be irresponsible in the purchases it makes, and from this point of view, although there are more and more parties that demand that it be placed in the rules for public procurement greater responsibility and end up, once and for all, with that blind and follow-on form that it looked at the transpositions of the European directives, according to which we could never defend greater responsibility in public procurement and we would always have to be secondary to imports of goods and services which, often, did not respond to the same laws as we demanded in Portugal, did not have the same environmental concerns and were far from the social responsibilities that we demanded of companies operating in our country. Therefore, it is necessary to change, yes, and, first, to change this follow-up, in which it was always said that Portugal was acephalo and independent in the transposition of directives and in the way it looked at a globalization that it felt normal to occur exploiting workers' rights in China, India, wherever it was, and destroying tropical forests, provided the price was cheap. This irresponsibility must end, because otherwise the point of no return is today and the next generations will not forgive us. For this reason, the State can and should do better, requiring those who buy goods and services to have an environmentally and socially responsible attitude. From this point of view, being a large buyer, can have positive effects on the national economy, ensuring that, through short circuits, there is a promotion of local production for local consumption. It makes no sense to import food that we produce in our country to then sell, for example, in school canteens, when the environmental cost of this choice is unacceptable for future generations and when, in fact, we are destroying the productive potential of our country, rather than defending and promoting. It does not make sense that the State does not have the concern of putting an environmental criterion of sustainability in its purchases and promotion, ensuring the punishment of purchases to countries that do not meet its social and environmental obligations. The Assembly of the Republic can and must make a difference in this matter and we will therefore follow all legislative initiatives which claim this. To promote local production is to promote the sustainability of our country, to promote our economy, to promote production patterns of respect for labour rights, which we believe should be promoted here and around the world, and to lift international responsibility, which should also exist in other countries. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u128	To submit Bill No 160 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the aim of rational use of natural resources, the protection of the environment and nature, the protection of the local economy and the interests of the people, the CFP today brings up a proposal for the promotion of sustainability and the guarantee of electrical and electronic equipment to combat planned obsolescence. The project we present introduces rules that essentially act on producers and the State, with the aim of extending the useful life of these equipment, namely: the extension to 10 years of the warranty period of these devices; the definition of technical standards that guarantee the possibility of replacement of components and prohibit the programming of appliances, limiting the time of life; the improvement of information to the consumer, with the creation of a label of longevity and the guarantee of access to the manuals of use in Portuguese; the promotion of local repairers networks, supporting micro and small enterprises in the services to consumers, to whom the right to repair their appliances should be ensured and not to see them unused without need. The studies show that if the rules extending the longevity of some of the devices were adopted, this would represent, within the European Union, a reduction of 12 million tonnes per year of CO2 equivalent in five years. If this intention were to be achieved, it would be equivalent to removing nearly 15 million vehicles moved to fossil fuels from roads. In several products used, the promoter — the large economic groups — introduces characteristics that cause the obsolescence of the product on a date prior to the one that technology and materials currently available allow. The evolution of scientific knowledge would enable us to produce increasingly efficient and durable tools and devices. However, it is precisely the opposite: the research and development of large companies, especially of large economic groups, have focused on obtaining methods, either by preventing the replacement of parts, or by programming aimed at reducing the response capacity of appliances, aiming at obsolescence of products without any other reason than the offer of one of their substitutes, with costs for consumers and nature. It is estimated that the planned obsolescence or the small durability of some tools and devices have an impact on the abuse of natural resources, on the production of waste, which could be avoided, as well as on the emission of greenhouse gases. Overproduction is closely linked to excessive consumption of natural resources, but it is also a cause and at the same time a concrete consequence of the major capitalist crises, the speculative bubbles that precede them and the financial collapses that characterize them. It is neither reasonable nor fair to concentrate efforts on the consumption habits of populations without requiring minimum standards to combat obsolescence to large producers of goods. The capitalist mode of production does not incorporate scientific advances, capable of minimizing its impacts on the globe and on the health of human beings, but rather scientific discoveries that allow it to increase profit. It is therefore urgent to create rules and rules that override the values of health, well-being and balance between the human being and the nature of the greed and voracity of the large economic groups. Capitalism is not green—we all know that—and the capitalist mode of production is not compatible with the good use of natural resources, insofar as it benefits from its destruction and appropriation. It is up to the State to limit this overwhelming concentration of profits and to protect consumers and workers from practices that are detrimental to common interests. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u130	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is based on the need, acknowledged by all, of the State to begin applying to itself the environmental criteria that it expects civil society and private companies to meet. In the part that affects our group, we fully subscribe to this principle and we see some advantages in two bills, in particular those presented by the PSD and the NAP. However, we should be careful with some obsessions that can be counterproductive, even in the good projects, such as indexing the price of repairs of appliances as a percentage of the sales value, which may be an authentic pump for the repair market, because often the companies that make repairs and the companies that sell the appliances are different. So we have to be careful. This also extends to the PCP project, since the extension of life of some older equipment may seem a good idea—and, in some circumstances, it is a good idea—but it may damage the development of newer, more recent, more energy-efficient equipment. Regarding the NAP and PSD projects, which implement the principles of green public procurement already provided for in the Public Contracts Code, I think that they lack a more careful evaluation for which the IL is available to contribute, in particular with regard to the PSD project, which presents discrimination according to the geographical origin of public procurement, which seems to us to be in danger of the error of protectionism. This can harm the developing economies and undermines the strengthening of the international market for these products, which can also have environmental consequences. Finally, I leave a word about the project of the Left Block, which is quite interesting. When called to contribute with sustainability measures and ecological purchases, the Block responds with more cooks to the Public Administration. I can see the penguins of Antarctica looking forward to having more civil servants in the country! The project of the Left Block is quite revealing of the mentality that the Block has in relation to the environment, because it considers that the environmental issue is a means and not an end — a means to end with the only model that has guaranteed some prosperity, quality of life and technology that allows us to grow by preserving the environment. There is a difference of positions between those who believe, indeed, that we have to maintain and preserve the environment and those who think that the environment is only an instrument to combat capitalism, for an ideological obsession. Obviously, we will have to reject this project. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u132	For an intervention, Mrs Sofia Andrade of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have a set of bills, presented by various parties, on a common objective, to define a cross-sectional model, with specific regulations, regarding public, circular and ecological purchases. On this subject, I would like to remind you. Members that there is already a path, which has been pursued by the Socialist Party, in support of the transition to the circular economy, with the clear identification of the levels of action. Of course, through policies that are able to facilitate the circulation and use of resources, respecting the preservation of natural capital in investment, with interventions in the economic system, in the definition of financial instruments or in support of specific projects and also in knowledge, promoting the interaction of interest groups, from collaboration to sharing good practices. The draft law submitted by the PSD may, in general terms, be framed in the need to establish criteria and deadlines for the viability of circular and ecological public purchases, with the establishment of the obligation to include environmental criteria in procedures for the formation of contracts covered by the Public Contracts Code. It is understood that this interpretation is also extended to all the projects presented by the other parties. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that so-called circular and ecological public purchases are one of the facets of a public purchase or, to be more stringent, a public contract. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the conclusion and execution of public contracts, as you know, are provided for in the Public Contracts Code. This is the legal framework that regulates the contractual activity of the Public Administration, either in an organic sense or in a functional sense. This means, therefore, that the object under consideration in the proposed bills already has legal framework. In addition, some rules that appear, for example, in the draft law submitted by the PSD are redundant, in view of the provisions of the Public Contracts Code, and others seem even conflicting. For example, see Article 6 ( 11 ). the, which is related to a counter-ordering process. In the light of the principle of typicality, the illegality in question must not only be densified, that is, the legal type, as well as the values of counter-ordinations, who has the power to establish and decide the counter-ordering process, such as the court responsible for the disputes and executions and for those who revert the value of the fines. The rule in question is omitted as to all these aspects, which makes it impractical. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the concern of the PS in this matter is not today. On the other hand, with regard to environmental issues, and in line with European legislation, there are already several legal instruments, launched by the Socialist Party, which aim to promote product sustainability and sustainable consumption, in particular the extension of consumer goods guarantees and their repairability. I'm done saying, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are accompanying and valuing the matter brought to this debate, but we can no longer say the same about the concrete proposals presented in these bills. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u134	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I regret to have to start this debate by demystifying the false narrative, given this week by some parties, that the arrival has no environmental ideas. In fact, the argument that the arrival has no ideas or proposals on any subject is beginning to be exhausting. [[PS and PCP protests and CH counter-protests.]] Please do your homework: study our proposals and then criticize the content! [[Congrats from the CH.]] As far as the environment is concerned, we have already submitted 40 proposals since the beginning of the Parliament, many of them have been piped by you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u136	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u137	So be consistent and you'll study. It is that 10 % of our proposals are environmental.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u138	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u139	Unfortunately, I also have to say that it is a special hypocrisy to hear this fallacy by the Socialist Party's satellite parties, parties that are monothematic. In fact, when they are drawing a public policy and any proposal, instead of spending most of their time thinking about the idea, they spend time thinking about the title or how they can make the proposal sound — it's the three Cs, it's the three Ds and I think one day they'll even hear the extreme left talk about the three Fs here! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would also like to point out that unfortunately the lack of notion abounds in this Parliament. It is that the Socialist Party, this week, wanted to protect one of its boys and denied the possibility, required by the Chega, to hear in the Committee on the Environment Mr. President of the Azambuja Chamber, about the environmental crime and the open-air sewage which is the landfill of Azambuja.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u140	Exactly! Shame! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u141	So, now come to this House saying that they are the paladins of environmental defense is, at least, revolting. Note: Azambuja, a municipality at the gates of Lisbon — it is not far away — that you are afraid to ignore! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] Even in this introductory note, I would also like to point out that we are the only ones in this House who are concerned about environmental matters, heritage, beauty, the wealth of nature in themselves, and not with the following spirit of the gentlemen, who have an agenda that is not scientific, a globalist agenda, an ideological agenda. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I speak of Agenda 2030, an agenda that has only used the environment as a « Trojan horse » to promote totalitarian policies. I invite you to look at what is going on in the Netherlands this week: farmers are on the street because they have seen laws, which can lead to expropriation, to be approved, supposedly in the name of environmental protection. [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]] This is an attack on private property, very grave, and not far from us! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] On the proposals under discussion... [[PS and PCP protests.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are very nervous. Can I continue my speech? [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u142	Take it easy! They're very nervous! [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u143	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of all the seats, and not just one or two, would like to create conditions for the speaker to continue her intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u144	Madam President, I just want to note that time has continued to count while my colleagues were in this wild. [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u145	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for creating the necessary conditions for you to continue. And time will certainly be taken into account. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. On the proposals under discussion, it is important to say that, in fact, the State should be exemplary in that which is sustainable behavior and therefore before forcing the citizen to act in a certain way, it must be the first to change his own behaviour. Before we force Portuguese families, who are already so overburdened with taxes and taxis, paying 0, 10 €, 0, 20 € or 0, 30 € for bags and packages, we must see the State shouldering its responsibility, the responsibility to promote public policies that are truly ecological, being the main actor. Mrs. Members, circular economy, yes; intergenerational solidarity, yes. That is why we are going to follow up on all the proposals put forward by the various forces. And this is our main difference: while some parties like to play with green lines and red lines that trace or not to arrive, we know that there is a line that separates us from all of you—before any political calculus or before any politicism, we always have as priority the needs of Portugal and Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions for us to continue our debate. Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech. [[Continuation of PS protests and CH counterprotests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD Member, to whom I have given the floor, has every right to make his speech in good condition. The same has happened recently to Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. But at the moment, who was in fact disturbing it was precisely the Parliamentary Group of the United States. Mr. Pedro Pinto is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u148	It is to make an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u149	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u150	Madam President, I am sorry, I know that the Parliamentary Group of the European Union does quite a few things, as everyone else does, but the President did not represent the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, which did not shut up during the speech of Mrs Rita Matias. So it's always the same! When it comes, let's reprehens it; when it's the Socialist Party, you can do whatever you want! They have an absolute majority, but they're not the owners of all this! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u151	Mr President, you have certainly heard, because you must have been careful, which I have drawn to the attention of all the benches, I stress, of all the benches, in order to create conditions for Mrs Rita Matias to continue her intervention. So please do not throw stones at each other and set the example, so that we can all, in fact, run in a string and hear in good condition. Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u152	Madam President, I should like to say that we have listened very carefully to the different interventions, including the latter, which have created a lot of friction here. And we heard words like "we defend, we know", and the others don't. I would say that these statements are endowed with a bit of a chance, of a lack of luck, I would say more, a little bit of an adventure, of a lot of luck in those words. It is that what is at stake here is a matter of responsibility which calls on everyone and I am sure that whatever the honourable Member is in this House, he does not stop thinking about Portugal's future. We do not think we are the only ones who are right, but we are sure that you also had only a bit of a chance in your speech. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u153	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Member of the Socialist Party, I would like to tell you that I thought what the Court of Auditors had said about the resolution of the Council of Ministers was that it was neither implemented nor executed. And I will read to you: "It was not being applied effectively" and "improvements should be introduced that would enhance its implementation and corresponding results". Therefore, the Court of Auditors allegedly did not know what it was saying from a legislative point of view; the resolution of the Council of Ministers, which you produced, was also conflicting, because you did not know what you were doing; and in practice, what you meant, then, was 'good, the PS was also wrong, because this law is very similar to the resolution of the Council of Ministers', which you were unable to execute. This law is very similar to what the European Commission itself says is necessary and you have not been able to execute. Madam Member, I didn't think it was possible that this would become worse, but in reality, the PS can make things worse. What's bad, the PS makes it worse! His speech is a criticism of the Socialist Party's Government — the former, the former! — but don't worry, we already know that governments are all the same. We are talking about implementing a directive and a policy for which all the countries of the European Union are making a huge effort and you have come to tell us about legal techniques, which, then, should have already been guarded in your previous governance. We're talking about the fact that you couldn't enforce a law! We are talking about your incompetence and you, almost certainly, will still vote against this law! In the remaining time that you still have to intervene, say how will you vote for the law and say whether you follow it or not...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u154	We don't follow!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u155	...that is the supposed concern of your own government! Tell them whether or not they follow the correction of your incompetence! Whether or not they follow the policy of the European Union! Tell them if they're worried about the future! Do something! But please, if that's the case, at least don't get in the way! Please answer, then, as you will be voting on this law, say whether you have concerns and stop taking refuge in these legal arguments, because in practice we know that the application of taxes and taxes that you are doing is only useful to fill the Government's pockets. This is a law that gives businesses competitiveness, it is a law that gives the country a future. Please answer if you have the courage, and say, now, how will you vote this law...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u156	Against!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u157	...and if you accompany your own concerns or if it's all just talk, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u158	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u159	Madam President, Dear colleagues : I would like to begin by thanking the PSD for bringing this issue to the Plenary, and to the Left Block, to the PCP and to the PAN, for having put forward proposals, the general meaning of which we are accompanying. In fact, promoting the circular economy is important today, such as combating waste, to help combat climate change, but also, at the time of our economy, whether it is both economic or structural, to help combat inflation and increase the cost of living. In particular, the proposals to combat planned obsolescence are very important. The fact that some of the industry invests in the permanent downgrading of its products is serious, is an attack on consumer rights. And contrary to what we have heard recently, to fight the planned obsolescence is not to be harming the sense of innovation of the technological industry, on the contrary, if our products last longer, then brands, industries will actually have to invest in effectively better products, to be able to impose themselves on the market, and not just to be waiting for those we have bought recently to be out of date. But it also helps to reduce the need for mining, important at this time and therefore not to rely on such extensive production chains.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u160	Watch out for time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u161	The European Parliament has also recently moved forward in this direction with directives which are, in fact, very similar to the proposals presented by the CFP here. Therefore, it is appropriate to say that, when there is a sense of urgency that is so shared and so wide, we should participate in it, instead of just dedicating ourselves to political chicana, as some here have tried to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u162	Use 1 minute and 44 seconds and say nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u163	For an intervention, Mr Salvador Formiga of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to creating rules that shape the behaviour of businesses and consumers, the Public Administration also plays another less obvious role, but very relevant, as a key element in ecology, the consumer, since the weight of public purchases in the economy represents about 5, 7 % of GDP. Thus, ensuring that most public purchases are sustainable will have a major ecological impact, boosting companies to greater investment in the development of green goods and services. However, the so-called ‘circular and ecological public procurement’ is already enshrined in the Public Contracts Code, which was updated in 2021. This is the legal framework that regulates the state's contractual activity. in this sense, the need for a new law to regulate what is already regulated is not justified. However, there are also challenges to be overcome so that green public procurement is a reality: on the one hand, to be aware of the many bodies and institutions still not committed to this issue; on the other hand, the rise of costs, which pushes budgets even more, when we live an inflation context. We therefore advocate the option of revising the resolution of the Council of Ministers establishing the regime of the National Ecological Public Procurement Strategy, in order to integrate the lessons learned in the meantime as well as the suggestions presented in the Audit Report on Ecological Public Procurement, the responsibility of the Court of Auditors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u165	To close this debate, Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u166	Mr President, today we have an unprecedented moment: twice, the Socialist Party has just told the parliamentary groups that have put forward proposals, and not few have done so for a law that already exists and that our work is completely unnecessary, because there is already a law that provides for public procurement in accordance with this provision. There is only one question that remains to be answered: how many purchases have been made by the State and the Socialist Government over the past six years with these criteria? In other words, what remained to be answered is the following: is there a law, is it applied? No, no, no. There is political will on the part of other parties. Can they present initiatives? No, because there's already a law. Do you make the law and apply it? No, they don't. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is circular about this is your attitude. You guys don't do anything, nothing, nothing! [[PSD laughter.]] The only thing that was needed was, in fact, a more linear policy on your part, more direct and more objective, to carry out what already exists. But then, if you have not executed it, what Parliament is saying is that the government has to do and this has to have the power of law! And you are almost trying to say that all Members belonging to the other parliamentary groups are incompetent, because they presented something superfluous and unnecessary. But that's so arrogant, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! You don't have that right! They can bring you to the debate, but it only hurts you! In fact, it only clearly gives you the mark of this governance: incompetence, lack of execution, incapacity, inaction! The subject under discussion is a responsible subject! You will have to go home, think, reflect, and come back tomorrow, knowing how you have to run this. And they should apologize to the other parliamentary groups, because no one here is being superfluous with such a relevant issue, to which you have only responded with legal questions. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need some paper. Recycle your ideas and practice a'more circular' policy! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u167	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we move on to the third item on our agenda, which is that of the joint assessment, in general, of the Lein Projects. 31 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extension of incentives for the establishment of health professionals in units and geographical areas with health deficiencies, 158 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Incentives for the establishment of health professionals in deprived areas and 172 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Alter the incentive scheme for the establishment of health professionals in deprived areas by amending Decree-Law No 101 / 2015 of 4 June 2015. To submit Bill No. 31 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS and the Government continue to refuse to respond to the fragility that the National Health Service ( SNS) has been targeted in recent years. In the speech, they are very sensitive and concerned, but then they do not assume responsibility for implementing measures that prevent the SNS from continuing to be weakened. The recently announced measures, in addition to not solving the structural problems that affect public service, maintain and aggravate promiscuity between public and private, in a neoliberal privatization strategy of the State, where health is guaranteed profit. The loss of human resources deepens every day. And without urgent measures, which guarantee the establishment and attraction of health professionals, will be the future of the National Health Service and the guarantee of the right to health, by the Portuguese people, that will be committed. It's to prevent that path, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have presented this proposal today, which extends the incentives for the establishment of health professionals in units and geographical areas with health deficiencies. Mr. President and Mrs. Members, in many geographical areas and in many specialties, the lack of health professionals is such that it reaches worrying limits of viability of many public units and services, and in the short term, a point of difficult return can be reached. I am referring not only to current needs, but to the fact that in the short term many health professionals are lost due to retirement, professionals, those who will not be replaced easily. The hiring and fixing of health professionals in geographical areas with health deficiencies is therefore a priority. A contract that should ensure not only the allocation of physicians and family nurses, but also doctors, nurses and other professionals in other areas of expertise and contexts, allowing time for consultations, examinations, surgeries and treatments in the SNS, being also relevant to ensuring territorial coverage in the provision of health care to which users are entitled. The hiring and fixing of health professionals in geographical areas with health deficiencies is an immediate response measure. However, its success will only be ensured if it responds to the causes that lead health professionals to seek other ways, including the private sector and emigration. For this reason, the CFP presents this bill, which, in addition to the incentive it considers an increase of 50 % in basic remuneration, gives an increase of 25 % in the accounting of service time, for career progression purposes, and also allocates support to compensate for housing expenses up to the amount of 700 € per month. We defend that these incentives apply to doctors and nurses. However, we understand and propose that the Government may extend this regime to other careers in the field of health, if necessary for the establishment of health professionals. We're right, ladies. Members, that this proposal serves the interests of our health professionals, institutions that are in need of them and the population that they need. Saving SNS is a PCP priority. Let's start with your professionals! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u169	Mr President, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification by Mrs Fatima Ramos. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u170	Madam President, I welcome you and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to say that the CFP shows that it knows the health problems and the distress that Portuguese people are experiencing at the moment, but does not justify the fact that, during these past years, it has always been with the Socialist Party, along with the captivitys of Centeno and Costa. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u171	Well, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u172	Don't explain anything about it! This chaos has not emerged now; this chaos has already come from behind and the Communist Party, in fact, forgets this, just as it has gone into the Socialist Party's conversation, which believes that the successive announcements and the successive promises and lies end up solving the problems, but do not resolve them, sir! For four difficult years, the PSD took the country out of bankruptcy and saved it from the economic point of view. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u173	Is that really serious? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u174	Next came your policies, along with the policies of the Socialist Party, and destroyed what was being done! [[PSD applause.]] With these policies and your ideological fanaticism, what did they do? Oh, my God! They broke agreements with mercy and IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity ). They did more: in the case of public-private partnerships (PPI), even when they involved less costs for the state and better service for people, they ended them. They didn't worry about people! It is this ideological blindness that has destroyed the National Health Service and that has demotivated the professionals, who have abandoned it, going many abroad. The PSD monitors the diagnosis that the Communist Party makes about the need to create incentives for doctors and nurses to go to these territories, but only this solution does not solve the problem, only this medicine — the communist strategy — does not solve the problem. Therefore, Mr President, it is necessary to involve health professionals and their professional orders, the bodies representing them. We need to involve the various sectors, the private sector and the non-profit social sector, if we really want to solve the problems of waiting lists and the patients who suffer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u176	So, Mr. João Dias, I ask you: don't you think 1, 4 million Portuguese people don't have a family doctor? Oh, my God! Do you not think that thousands of Portuguese despair, while waiting for months, and even years, by consultation, surgery or supplementary diagnostic examination, when they could receive such assistance in good time, if they let the ideological shovel fall against the private sector and the non-profit social sector? Oh, my God! Do you know that, in many territories, where not even the private sector acts, is the social sector that is there because the State has already abandoned them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u178	You don't think there are many thousands of people who have to pay in the private sector for lack of response from the state, and that other Portuguese people are without assistance, because they don't have money to pay? Oh, my God! You don't see that this is just enriching private insurance and impoverishing people who have a bad job? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u179	They didn't follow our proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u180	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u181	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Fatima Ramos for her questions. I am glad to recall the intervention of the CFP over the past few years in relation to health proposals. We put forward proposals for the valorization of careers and for the dignity of the salaries of health professionals, of them all; we put forward proposals, in particular on the exclusive dedication and the establishment of professionals in the deprived areas; we presented proposals for investment in equipment in the National Health Service. Where was the PSD at that time, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u182	Yes! Where have you been? Oh, my God! [[Protests from PSD MP Fatima Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u183	Do you know where you've been most of the time? Oh, my God! Voting next to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u184	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u185	You have approved the Budgets and the Captives!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u186	If I had voted alongside the CFP, our proposals had passed because the PS had no political conditions at the time to reject them. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u187	But I want to tell you more, Mrs. Member. Mrs. Deputy says the diagnosis is done. It is true that the diagnosis is made, what we differ is in the treatment, because the PCP defends the National Health Service, while you continue to defend the public sector's funding to the private sector. [[PSD protests.]] She knows perfectly well that the PSD has heavy responsibilities in relation to the "cancer" that the private sector represents in the National Health Service, which has invaded and metastitized the National Health Service completely, degrading the public response and hence doing its business.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u188	In what years did that happen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u189	So there is a distance that absolutely separates us:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u190	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u191	I shall conclude, Madam President. As I said, there is a distance that separates us absolutely: while we defend the National Health Service, and we start by its professionals, yes, who are their greatest value, you know what you did, in the time of the peacekeeper, of the government of the troika? He sent them to emigrate! That's what the PSD did! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u192	And now your colleagues don't emigrate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u193	To submit Bill No 158 / XV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are current problems in fixing health professionals, which are still aggravated in areas lacking, and it is not only in the interior, as the case in the Lisbon area demonstrates. The current regime is insufficient and has several problems. On the one hand, contrary to what Mr Finance Minister — who does not lack money for the SNS — said this current scheme for the establishment of professionals in the deprived areas shows that one of the problems is the bottleneck that finances put in the health sector, because they say that the number of vacancies depends on administrative authorization and money to pay them. Another aspect relates to the fact that there is no response to one of the structural problems in some regions of the country, which is the cost of housing and how this reduces the income of professionals. There is no single incentive to answer this problem! The third question is that of the regime only applies to doctors, when we know that in several regions of the country, there are not only health professionals who are lacking. For all these issues, the Left Block presents measures and solutions in order to ensure that vacancies for the establishment of professionals in deprived areas are not dependent on the authorisation of protection, but rather on the actual needs in the field. They are measures that value professionals with remuneration incentives, and also with the possibility of finding answers to the housing problem, and that ensure that vacancies are not only for doctors but for all professionals. We already know that on the side of the Socialist Party there will be a response to this debate, which is: « There is a SNS Statute ». In fact, just look at what has happened in the past few months and we realize that there is always an ad in response to any problem. The problem is that the announcement never happens: it is ad behind advertisements, paper and news, and never concrete measures to change reality in people's lives. We can see what the Minister of Health did two months ago when the emergency crisis in the country broke out, in particular the emergency of obstetrics. He presented three proposals: competitions, which were already planned and which will again become deserts; autonomy, which continues to fail, because he has never done anything to implement it; the guarantee of the possibility of full dedication for the professionals, who have been promising for years and who are still not leaving the paper. None of these measures, none of these three announcements were materialized in all these weeks when the emergencies were without professionals. What was missing to solve the problem? Oh, my God! One more ad! And what is it now? Three years after he has been promised, the announcement of the SNS Statute arrives. For when? Oh, my God! In a few months' time, because there is still a lack of regulation. If the regulation is done, as was expected, in 180 days, we will probably have another three years until there is a regulation of the SNS Statute. We know, therefore, that the only thing that the government guarantees is announcements, because responses to health problems, these, are always pushed with the belly forward. Looking at the news that came out on the Statute—because, in fact, the document, we do not know it—they are extraordinary for anyone. Let us see: asking anyone, on the street, "What is missing in the National Health Service? », the unanimous response is that of lack of professionals. So what does the Statute provide for? Professionals? Oh, my God! Don't! Does the Statute provide that you will hire more people? Boysand PS girls! For what? For executive management of the SNS. Now, the government does not seem to realize that it is the Executive of the State. [[PS Member Protests Marcos Perestrello.]] No, no! He's not an executive! It is more an executive management of the SNS that now intends to implement. The problem, therefore, for the government, was that bureaucracy was missing and therefore adds bureaucracy to the SNS, to ensure that solutions never come out of the paper. Well, perhaps, this executive management will also have a public relations agent to better promote advertisements, because that is what the government is becoming professional about. Full dedication? Oh, my God! No, there's no full dedication. After all, it's an incentive scheme. For whom? For the same professionals who continue to cheat, because the government does not give them rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u195	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u196	I shall conclude, Madam President. These answers are not solutions, they are more problems, even above a government that says it has love for the SNS, but that every time it proposes something, it will turn its backs on the name of a new announcement. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u197	A Member has signed up to request clarification from Mr Pedro Filipe Soares who does not have time to answer it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u198	If you give me time, I'm so happy to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u199	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor anyway to make this request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u200	Madam President, Dear Members, Dear Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the Left Block argues, in this bill, that the National Health Service goes through a very serious situation, with emergency closures, inability to guarantee operating scales of various services and with almost 1, 4 million users without a family doctor. It also says, and I quote, that '(...) solutions cannot be of contingency or merely rhetorical. The remuneration conditions and careers of SNS professionals must be improved in order to set those who are trained in the public service(... ) ». We absolutely agree with these statements. The SNS is wrong, it can't attract professionals, it can't retain those who work there, nor can it prevent the unprecedented migration that has been assisted by health professionals from the public sector to the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u202	We stress, however, that this is not a problem right now and that during the many years when the Left Block has supported this Socialist Party government, this reality already existed. As such, we regret that the Left Block was not outraged by this lack of conditions for the professionals at that time, who did not fight for this desire when it was in more suitable conditions to do so. at that time, he swung to the side... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u203	...and signed the narrative of this government, that the SNS was well and recommended! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] The SNS was not well, the SNS is not well, as it is in view of all Portuguese, but apparently it is now also in view of the Left Block. The PSD considers it essential to make the medical career more attractive, which means that we follow the general spirit of the bill that the Left Block presents and subscribes to the need to increase incentives for professionals. However, incentives already exist...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u204	But they don't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u205	...and they're not having the desired effect. The vacancies continue to be filled and it is necessary to reflect on why this happens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u206	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u207	We believe that the value of incentives and participations should not be a assumption created in the ad hoc office, and should be the result of consultation with the unions and those on the ground with whom they know reality. [[All right!]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u208	It is not about just throwing sounds, as this Socialist Party Government has done.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u209	Mr President, you really have to conclude, because you have already exceeded your intervention time in a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u210	I mean, the government hasn't done anything. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u211	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u212	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u213	Mr President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau to request the distribution of a document containing information which should be known to the PSD. These are the votes of the last annual State budgets, in which he will prove that the last time the Left Block voted in favour of a State budget was in November 2018. Therefore, you will see how long you are due to your intervention, or your analysis of the position of the Left Block, because it was precisely because of the health that began the cleavages between the Left Block and the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u214	They're accomplices!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u215	To submit Bill No. 172 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government in fact does not seem to want to understand what it really needs to do for the survival of the National Health Service. at a time when more than 1 million users are without a family doctor, the government was able to present an apparent solution to the problem—without, however, having listened to professional orders, such as the Order of Physicians, trade unions and civil society—, with the option to hire doctors without the speciality in general medicine and family...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u217	Didn't you hear? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u218	... to perform functions assigned to a specialist. This solution is obviously very questionable and is generating controversy among professionals. In other words, there is still a clear need for young specialists to be picked up who are formed in Portugal annually for the SNS, and the setting of doctors themselves, with everything that this implies, in particular the improvement of working conditions and remuneration, in order to make the public sector more attractive and to prevent the escape of these professionals to the private sector. One thing is certain: it is for the Government to ensure the realization of the right of access to a family doctor to all Portuguese, but the path will certainly not be for the devaluation of the speciality and training in the medical career. It has already been shown that there are doctors, which do not exist is the ability to fill these same vacancies. It is not necessary to capture them and fix them where they are effectively necessary, but also to set priorities. Otherwise, we saw: still recently, two medical teams were mobilized, 175 elements of Civil Protection, 62 medical emergency cars, and it was not for any hospital emergency situation, or even even forest fires, it was for the expectations of Vila Franca de Xira cattle. It is that professionals exist, but the priorities of the country are clearly reversed by our government. For this reason, we must ensure that professionals are where they are needed and not where activities are carried out, clearly contested by civil society. Therefore, the NAP is now presenting initiatives — and will of course follow the others — which aim, on the one hand, at the appreciation of professionals. But, I stress, we have to set priorities and put the professionals where they are needed, because this is a regime that has faults. From then on, it is limited to medical workers, ignoring that other health professionals, such as nurses, are as necessary and does not provide the necessary incentive for the compensation of housing expenses, which is essential for those who have changed their entire lives, in order to be able to fix themselves in an area lacking in health care. On the other hand, we propose raising the needs of services that are established, as well as incentives for the fixing of doctors and nurses, especially in areas lacking. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the resources that exist must be properly channelled and professional valorisation cannot continue any longer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u219	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP, the Left Block and the NAP today bring to the debate a matter already discussed here and recently voted in the State budget — the model of incentives for the establishment of health professionals in areas lacking. Despite small differences between them, these three bills propose legislative changes in the area in which we agree: it is necessary to fix health professionals in the SNS, especially in areas lacking in the country. However, it would be important for the proponents to have answers to some questions: at the moment, exactly what are the areas of the country lacking health professionals? It is that, in our view, and despite the various increases that have been allocated to health in the various State budgets, the whole country is lacking health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u222	Just as an example, for years there have been lack of pediatricians in the Algarve, in Almada, obstetricians in Braga, in the region of Setúbal, Leiria, Loures, everywhere. In Lisbon, the Hospital de Santa Maria, last week, was to close the Intensive Respiratory Care Unit due to lack of pneumologists, and it is important to remember that there are no specialists in general and family medicine in the whole country. Regarding the lack of nurses, unfortunately, the time of this intervention is not enough to list all areas of the country where they are also missing. Therefore, reality transforms these proposals not into specific measures for certain areas, with appropriate rules to these specificities, but into proposals for practically the whole country. in this sense, what are the concrete objectives that aim to achieve? With all honesty and given the enormous shortages of health professionals in so many areas, from north to south of the country, in the Liberal Initiative we could not move forward with an estimate, so we would like to have this clarification. It is also important to answer openly the other issue which, in our view, is very important: when it comes to legislation on incentives with this degree of detail, is Parliament replacing the government or not? Oh, my God! Is this or not the matter of executive power which should be the subject of prior negotiation with the associations representative of the professionals in the sector? Oh, my God! It is, in our view, yes, and it is a matter that the government should manage and that it has not done so in these almost seven years alone because of pure irresponsibility, inability to negotiate and incompetence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u224	Are they whether or not the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN wanting to replace the government and ultimately to make life easier for them? Oh, my God! Should Parliament have the burden of legislating right or wrong — and very probably not — in such a sensitive and so many details? Oh, my God! Finally, and no longer being surprised at anyone, I recall that, in the Liberal Initiative, we defend a national health system where the model of care delivery is based on freedom of choice, articulation and cooperation between the SNS and the private and social sectors. Therefore, we believe that, before we approve any initiatives on this subject, it would be important to have a survey of the responses that exist in the various sectors, as well as an independent cost/benefit study regarding the contractualization by the State of these responses. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is more than clear today that the lack of health professionals in the SNS is not only solved with financial incentives. In our view, these initiatives do not, on their own, solve the fundamental problem. The approach to a matter of this seriousness and relevance has to be much more comprehensive, has to be strategic and implies a profound reform of the SNS and the health system in general. For all these reasons, because of the reform we are defending for the national health system, but also because of our sense of responsibility, the position of the Liberal Initiative on these initiatives remains unchanged. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u225	Mr Ricardo Lino of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The three draft laws under consideration are intended to extend the incentives for the establishment of health professionals in areas lacking. Despite the relevance of the subject matter, these initiatives do not add anything new, merely to replicate the proposals already submitted by the same parliamentary groups, during the discussion and approval of the proposal for a State Budget Act for 2022. It should be recalled that the Government has made a commitment to revise monetary and non-pecuniary incentives for the attraction and fixation of doctors in deprived areas. On the other hand, the proposals in question do not even identify the financial impact of the measures submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u227	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u228	It is also essential to bear in mind that the SNS is composed of a set of entities and professionals who collectively contribute to ensure the success of the mission and responsibility of the State in protecting the health of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u230	The PS is proud of the SNS, but we don't forget their problems. We are surprised, yes, by this tripartite legislative initiative, when the Council of Ministers has just approved a new SNS Statute yesterday, which provides structural responses to the specific problems of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u231	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u232	We are faced with a significant strengthening of means and a decisive step in the functional management of the SNS, which will enable the consolidation of the system of health professions, the promotion of the development of the skills of its professionals and the improvement of working environments. They are fundamental measures that will contribute decisively to improving access to health care for users. I remember, for the most distracted, that it was with this government that we reversed the trend of de-investment in the SNS. Let's go to the facts: financial reinforcement of more than 40 % between 2015 and 2022;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... today we have more than 24 000 health professionals; we have more than 230 000 consultations in hospitals and more than 33 000 surgeries compared to the same period of the previous year; the creation of the full dedication work system is a fact; the creation of the career of health assistant technician. This regulatory framework is also complemented by the planned investments, in a total of EUR 1240 million, within the framework of the PRR, of which we highlight: extension of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care and the National Network of Palliative Care (about 8000 places or beds) ; generalization of the centres of responsibility integrated in hospitals; strengthening primary health care, with the construction of 100 new health units; acquisition of 700 electric vehicles for home care; creation of 34 mobile health units for care in proximity in low-density territories. Finally, of course, we must not forget the implementation of mechanisms for fixing doctors in the deprived areas, which include, for example, a salary increase of 60 %, I repeat, to listen to, hear and not forget, a salary increase of 60 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u233	For how long?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u234	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here to solve problems, to create solutions and to build a better country, with more growth, more fair and better living conditions for all Portuguese. The Socialist Party's matrix is democratic dialectic and Portuguese know this and know that the PS will continue to promote political dialogue, in this parliamentary framework, to build the necessary consensus and work for Portugal to continue to move forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u235	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u236	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to welcome the West of Communist and Trotskyist parties. It seems that we are in 1989, the Berlin Wall fell and are coming to the market economy. So, you finally recognize that giving more incentives to those who work and where we need the workers, that, yes, is good to call the workers. All right, welcome to the Western world, welcome to the market economy! We are here today to discuss the PCP bill to extend the fixation of health professionals and, in fact, we are in favour, of course we are in favour. And we are so in favour that we wanted to drag into this discussion our draft resolution for the immediate hiring of health professionals, particularly in the Algarve region, which is one of the most deprived regions of the country—they must recognize VV. Ex. —,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...and we even wanted to secure obstetric and pediatric services. See there how we are warned that we wanted to ensure a service that closed yesterday — the pediatrician in Faro —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u237	They wanted to privatize him and now they don't want him!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u238	...and it'll only open on Sunday. For three days the pediatric emergency will be closed! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So we presented this project and you did not vote in favour, but at the bottom they knew well that we were right and that is why they now present this new project. And even they voted against our proposals for amendments to the State budget, which were in everything similar to your bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u239	Oh, yes! They were copies! Copy is ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u240	And why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because your ideological shovels are bigger than the good they want for the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u242	The orders you receive from your Central Committee are worse for Portuguese than we want.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u243	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u244	For, in the end, I must say that it is not so: if the measure is good for the Portuguese, we vote in favour—we have no complex—even when it comes from parties like yours, which defends a totalitarian and dictatorial ideology. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We analyze the substance of the projects and we are not prejudiced, like you, about the issuer of this project. But I ask a question, because we also have to clarify who hears us at home: why did the PCP claim, when we tried to drag the discussion of our draft resolution, with the agreement of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic? Is it because they think that Algarve is not a poor health region or because they think that the hiring we want does not promote the immediate fixing of professionals? Oh, my God! We know we don't! Not one thing, not another! It's because they're made with the PS and the Left Block, in a new management 3.0,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u245	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u246	...to pass the latest PS narrative, which is that « arriving speaks, speaks, speaks, but does not propose anything». [[That's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u247	Well, that's a lie! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u248	You copy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to speak of the more than 300 amendments to the State budget, nor of the more than 70 legislative proposals we have already tabled in this session.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u251	First, the communists thought they were going to kill this parliamentary group at birth, saying that we are fascists, racists and others « these» juggling... [[PS protests.]] Yeah, it didn't work! The Portuguese rated, voted and today we are 12, while you are 6! We're double! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PCP protests.]] They won't be able to fool the Portuguese people, passing on the idea that we are just a force of protest and that we have no solutions. We have solutions, we have proposals and you are trying to veto everything we say!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u253	I'm just going to show here a table with the legislative proposals that we have already presented in the field of health, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! The speaker displayed a sheet with a table. Only in the area of health! All these proposals were vetted and plunged by the opposition, by the new management 3.0. So, as you can see, arriving produces, arriving proposes, arriving wants to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u255	This brute majority is that it is blind, and it is ideologically blind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u257	The copy's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u258	You, everyone, on the left should put your hand on your conscience and see how management is responsible for these tragic days of health in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u259	You now have the floor to Mrs Berta Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand the intention and will, which is also ours, to reform the National Health Service, to strengthen human resources and to give a family doctor to all Portuguese. However, we consider these proposals to increase and extend incentives for vacancies in deprived areas in view of the fact that, in the State budget for this year, incentives for deprived areas, which are added to the existing incentives for these vacancies, provided for in Decree-Law No 101 / 2015, which now propose to amend. These new incentives, provided for in the State Budget, mean a 60 % salary increase, already regulated by the Ministry of Health of 28 June, and will cover areas with an average coverage of family physicians below the national average. In the tendering procedure for the areas in need, we have 239 vacancies, 52 of which are vacancies created under this decree and will therefore have a duplicate of the maturity, i.e. 60 % plus 40 %. of these 239 vacancies in areas lacking, there are 201 in the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo, which is, in fact, the most deprived area of family doctors, 10 in the region Centro ( Guarda and Castelo Branco ), 6 in the Alentejo and 21 vacancies in the Algarve. Doctors already exercising in these areas, identified in the office of 28 July, may apply to the USF (family health units) model A, this year, and, at the end of three years, to progress to the USF of model B. These types of performance-related incentives are the right type of incentives. Yesterday, at the Council of Ministers, the Statute of the National Health Service and the figure of full dedication, which provides incentives related to health outcomes, increased professional availability, which will now be negotiated with the unions. This is the right way, which the government is going and which we support: appreciation of the careers of health professionals and incentives related to performance. Only in this way will we continue to strengthen and reform a health service that we want to be efficient and that it responds, with closeness and quality, to the needs of Portuguese and Portuguese people who need it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u261	Mr Rui Tavares, from the Free House, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was in 2015 that a regime was set up to encourage the establishment of doctors in areas with greater health needs throughout the country, but the result, already at that time, fell short of the expected and, year after year, has been less and less of the doctors joining. So I cannot follow what my dear colleague Berta Nunes has just said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u263	Dear colleague? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u264	... by saying that these initiatives which seek to improve the incentive system are extemporaneous and inappropriate, because something is not working, if the number of doctors who adhere to this scheme decreases year after year. And perhaps one of the things that is not working is what, for example, the Left Block project aims to close, by extending these incentives to all health professionals. It is that people do not move to areas lacking only through wage incentives, but also from working conditions and support in health centres and hospitals where they go. Therefore, these projects go in the right direction, even if they accompany — there is no harm in it, on the contrary — what we have already done in the seat of Budget. And contrary to what has been said recently by the Liberal Initiative, there is no burden on Parliament to legislate. That is our job, we must legislate! In fact, it is strange that we accuse the government of incompetence for not having legislated, and then we say that Parliament should not do so, because we should leave it in the hands of the government, that we have just been suspicious, a few seconds earlier, in the same speech. So this is the work of Parliament. in this matter, something is not working and we should continue to try until it works, because the whole country has the right to access health care and there are many health professionals who want to move inside and to whom we should help carry out these projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u265	To close the debate, on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time the CFP brought and scheduled this bill, which allows further clarification — if not already clarified — of the position of each of us in this House. The right: "no, please, this to strengthen and strengthen the National Health Service is not because it is to take business opportunities to the private". [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u267	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u268	Now the PS, what you're doing here today, defending your position, your proposal, is you want to pass the idea that health professionals are all mercenaries, and you're not, Mrs! Mrs Berta Nunes and Mr Ricardo Lino, I would like to tell you that the CFP proposal considers other issues and other variables, which are fundamental and decisive, such as career development, housing-related issues and what has to do with points and career progression. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us do an exercise and put on the table two options, to see what the honourable Member and the honourable Member choose: the proposal of the PS, which increases by 60 % the basic wage, for three years, nothing more, I repeat, 60 % of the increase in the base wage; the proposal of the CFP is advancing by 50 % the increase in the base wage; the increase by 25 % of the number for career progression; the increase in points, also for career progression; 700 € for housing costs, whether own acquisition or income.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u269	This has already exceeded 100 %! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u270	Now, if I had to choose, what was the proposal that the honourable Member chose, that of the PS or that of the PCP? I think health professionals would have no doubts and would choose that of the PCP, because these are the proposals they present. Therefore, the PCP brings here, to this House, the proposals that value health professionals. But I want to tell you one thing, Mrs. Member: responsibility is all about the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u271	And the last six years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u272	The PS is not doing what it promises!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u273	No more dating! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u274	He says he's sensitive, he says he's worried, but then when he has to meet the demands that health professionals put, no, he's not going to turn.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u275	That's what we're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u276	What prevents the PS, which has an absolute majority, from meeting the demands made by health professionals, especially by trade union organizations? Oh, my God! What prevents the PS from making the National Health Service have the necessary investment in human resources and essential equipment to fix health professionals? Oh, my God! Do you know what prevents you, Mrs. Deputy and Mr. Deputy? Do you know what prevents you? It is the interest of the large economic groups that profit from the disease! You put the interests of the large economic groups that profit from the disease in front of the population and health professionals! For that, you can't count on us! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u277	We therefore close the debate on the third item on the agenda. We move on to the fourth point, to the joint discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 20 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — For the total forgiveness of Ukrainian foreign debt, 124 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For a 20-year moratorium on the payment of Ukraine's external debt and Russia's liability and 125 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government consider renegotiation or forgiveness of Ukraine's debt to Portugal. To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We insist on solidarity with Ukraine, because we do not give up this idea, despite the lack of response from the government. Even before the Russian invasion in February 2022, the European Commission decided to approve a financial assistance plan for Ukraine of EUR 1.2 billion. It was a 12-month loan and subject...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to interrupt. There are many of you. Members standing —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u280	It's a shame! They should all go to the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u281	... from the back, in fact, to the Bureau of the Whole, which is not quite appropriate—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u282	Lack of respect! That's why they should be only half!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u283	... that they are preventing the honourable Member from being able to be heard with respect and interest that her speech deserves. Madam Member, you may proceed and I apologize for interrupting.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u284	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that the European Commission decided to lend EUR 1, EUR 2 billion to Ukraine, and this loan was not free of charge, it was 12 months and subject to the approval of a memorandum of understanding, and Portugal well knows what a memorandum of understanding means. This was not the first time Ukraine felt the solidarity of the European institutions. Since the invasion of Donbass, the World Bank, the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) and the European Commission have already lent $38 billion to Ukraine. All these loans were subject to interest and conditionalisms. Ukraine had to privatize its strategic sectors; it had to reform its pension system; it had to liberalise its economic sectors; it had to liberalise its labour rules; it had to cut wages; and it had to cut social support. in one of the poorest countries in Europe, already after an invasion, Ukraine was forced to cut wages and social support to achieve such solidarity from the European institutions. In fact, as far as we know today, the World Bank has not yet classified Ukraine as a country in conflict, which means that Ukraine cannot access financial relief measures, which would have been possible if it had been classified as a country in conflict. Thus, despite the immense need for this country's resources, Ukraine continues to pay its external public debt, which in 2021 was $54 billion distributed between IMF, World Bank, European Commission, international loans and also eurobonds issued under English law to protect creditors and which until yesterday was protecting Russians in Ukrainian debt. Until yesterday, the English law protected Russia from debt forgiveness to Ukraine. The question we have asked, and for which we have no answer, remains: will the cancellation of this debt be put on the international agenda? Will the Portuguese Government or will not defend the cancellation of Ukrainian foreign debt, or is it expected — the government and the parliamentary groups are waiting for — that an invaded country will continue to pay its debt service and comply with the dogmatic plans of the European institutions, as if nothing, with fear of rating agencies, as if it were a country in a normal situation? Ukraine does not need studies and does not need to wait for the invader to assume its debts. To free Ukraine from the yoke of debt is solidarity, it is justice with a people in suffering, with an invaded country and also with one of the poorest countries in Europe. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u285	To present the Resolution Project No 124 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), you have the word of Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival brings to this House a project for Ukraine's external debt to be targeted by a moratorium at 20 years and also for the total pardon of associated interest. We must have the notion of the following : in 2014, when Crimea was invaded, the European Union, i.e. all of us European Union contributors, carried out a plan of 11 billion for Ukraine, I repeat, 11 billion. This money is ours, it's from the Portuguese, Spanish, Italian and French taxpayers. In the meantime, Ukraine was the target of a brutal military invasion and, of course, the country is on a course of total destruction. We simply say that we are going to cancel all Ukraine's external debt is to say that we are going to be responsible for what Russia is doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u287	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u288	In the post-World War II, no country had ever been forgiven. Germany was held responsible for the damage it had caused to other countries. At the end of World War I, Germany, through bilateral treaties and instruments, and other countries, such as Austria and the former Austro-Hungarian Empire, were held accountable for bilateral treaties and instruments. What we have to decide is this: we all agree — the proponents of the three projects, here today, under discussion — that Ukraine's external debt must be renegotiated, that it must be restructured, and that Ukraine must be strongly supported. The only question we have is this: through what instrument? By paying us or by paying Russia?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u289	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u290	And if we have to choose between charging the Portuguese or paying the Russians, I think we have to burden the Russians, because they created this situation! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So what is proposed here is the total cancellation of Ukraine's debt. Now, Ukraine has major debts to the European Union, which we are! The European Union is the countries that make it up, which put billions of euros in support of this country. Even last week—we need to have the notion of numbers! — the European Union has approved a new package of 2, 2 billion, which may amount to up to 10 billion in support of Ukraine. To cancel this debt at the moment was to say that this loan ceased to be a loan and became a donation, with very strong consequences on the national and international financial market. But we can go further: is it that if we forgive Ukraine's foreign debt, because we do not forgive Libya, which goes to 433 % of national GDP and has had a brutal civil war? Oh, my God! Why don't we forgive Congo's external debt? Oh, my God! Why don't we forgive that of tens of African countries who have been at war for years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u291	Look at that well thought out!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u292	So what we have to decide, once and for all, is whether debts are to pay or are simply to make a political number and say: « ok, they have hired millions and millions in loans, but now they do not pay and are the Portuguese, Spanish, Italian and French taxpayers who will pay». Out of curiosity, neither the Block project, nor the NAP project are responsible for Russia. But, after all, who invaded Ukraine? Was it Portugal? Was it Spain? Was it Italy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u293	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u294	It was the Russians! So the Russians who pay, because we're not gonna be paying off external debts! [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why, Mr President, our proposal is very clear: we defend the total pardon of the interest in the Ukrainian debt — which, yes, can be renegotiated and canceled — we defend a 20-year moratorium and substantial support for its reconstruction. Everything else is pure demagogy, to tell people that they are, with their taxes, that they will pay for a war for which they were not responsible. If we have to choose, our option is clear: Russia must be held accountable and, in the post-war period, it must be obliged to pay, for good or through trade interest treaties on its debt or other trade instruments that lead to the reconstruction of Ukraine. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] Between Putin and the West, who has to pay for the reconstruction of Ukraine is the Russian regime and its oligarchs. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u295	To present the Resolution Project No 125 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What brings us here today is a debate on a matter in which the NAP, from the very first moment, has said it is on Ukraine's side, which defends the forgiveness of the debt to Ukraine or, to the limit, its renegotiation. But, Mr. André Ventura, demagogy is not to defend forgiveness of debt to Ukraine. We have here every day also argued that the State must stop financing the bank with taxpayers' money. In addition, we have road PPPs that will cost the country three times as much, which in this case, for example, amounts to the value of Ukraine's debt forgiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u297	Who pays?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u298	So if the Portuguese can be paying — something we challenge — the bank deviations, millionaire business going to the pockets of the same or tax bills to the polluting industry, let us be serious: if we have a country at war, a country that did not ask to be invaded by Putin,... [[CH protests.]] And, Mr President, I would like to tell you from now on that you have an excellent idea: let us also think about the renegotiation of the debt of the countries at war. It is a moral duty of the States. In fact, Portugal suffered with austerity, suffered during the intervention of the troika,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u299	Has anyone forgiven our debt? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u300	...we know the devastating effect this has on a fragile economy; now we think of a destroyed economy, with more than EUR 500 billion in debt to recover a country. We say we are supportive of Ukraine, but it is not enough to stay for empty gestures. And we all agree that Russia must be held accountable, that the various countries must be called upon to intervene, but we have the renegotiation of debt on the table. This is what the NAP is asking for, that the Portuguese State should work towards renegotiating debt or actually having forgiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u301	That's forgiveness, it's not negotiation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u302	Do you know why, Your Honor? It is that in the day when we are supposed to be, perhaps, victims of such a war, it is good to be aware that we cannot just extend our hand when it touches us and close that hand when it touches others. The war with Ukraine is not just with Ukraine, it is with all of us and all States have the duty to be solidarity, because if our taxes serve what they should not serve—to lose them, every year, for corruption, for tax bubbles to the polluting industry, among other dimensions—which serves a dimension of humanist character that must govern all public policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u303	Who pays? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u304	And here we couldn't actually diverge more from the bank of arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u305	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Russia's invasion of Ukraine has lasted for more than four months. We are all confronted daily with news, reports, war images in the country, destruction of infrastructures, productive capacity, arbitrary death of military and civilians, looting, forced emigration of millions of Ukrainians, interrupted lives, ruined lives. Witnessing all this is inevitable, natural, morally demanding, even the absolute repudiation of this invasion by all of us. Rejecting the invasion and being available to participate in initiatives that contribute to the reconstruction of Ukraine does not, however, mean voting in favour of today's bills. It's a different thing, and why? These supposedly benevolent legislative initiatives are demagogic constructions, signage of virtue which do not correspond to the will expressed by Ukraine, on the contrary, they instrumentalize, yes, a very serious situation for points in domestic policy and the Liberal Initiative does not contribute to this. The Ukrainian people are a working, decent people who have spoken of fulfilling their commitments. For example, the project presented by the Left Block proposes that the Government defend the cancellation of Ukrainian foreign debt. We would also like to recall that unilateral default solutions have very serious consequences for debtors and even though Ukraine has officially expressed its willingness to continue to honour its commitments. [[It's true! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u307	Sure, what happened to him? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u308	This obviously does not mean that we do not agree, for example, with what Mrs Mariana Mortágua said, just about the need to reclassify the country; but every thing in its place. It is also true that last week the international press was able to consider Ukraine to renegotiate with its creditors in future, requesting consent to restructure the terms of debt, in order to maintain, inter alia, open lines of financing. Well! Restructuring, moratoriums, with these topics on the table the Liberal Initiative will be deeply in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u309	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u310	The project submitted by the Arrival recommends to the Government that it defends with the institutions that may contribute to the desire to decree a moratorium. We are also in favour of moratoriums, such as restructurings, but it is important, for example, to define which institutions we are talking about. In short, the Portuguese count on the Liberal Initiative for Respect for the Ukrainian People, in the intransigent defense of the freedoms of the Ukrainian people. They count on the Liberal Initiative for serious solutions and decisions taken at their own headquarters, but do not count on the Liberal Initiative for instrumentalizing the suffering of others, for signs of virtue and for populism. Finally, two notes. I would like to argue that we must also take into account the ongoing support in the European Union for substantial financial packages for aid to Ukraine — we are in full favour of this issue — and finally, as in the defence of freedoms and other values and actions, we will also support measures at the level of debt, restructuring, moratoriums and support for restructuring, but always in accordance with Ukraine's own will. We will also be on the front line of support. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u311	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Iglesias of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects under discussion are relevant, given the matter under consideration, but it is, in fact, already on the agenda as a priority in the various international institutions which Portugal integrates and cooperates with. In fact, it was public in the last week that Ukraine is currently studying a restructuring of its debt with the technical support of the IMF, without questioning its credibility before international investors and creditors, which will be fundamental in the post-war scenario which, of course, we hope will be sooner than later. Ukraine will have to make an important refund by 1 September, amounting to $1.4 billion, including interest, a significant amount in view of the destruction of the country, the destruction of its production machine and the flight of more than 10 million citizens. It is said that in March the IMF approved an emergency loan of $1.4 billion, also cancelling the existing agreement with the country, and that it still had $2.2 billion to pay, a total of $5 billion, which had been authorized by 2020. The fact is that it would be tragic if Ukraine risked default, questioning its future financing and access to the debt market in the coming years. And there is something we fully agree on: restructuring Ukraine's debt is a fundamental step in ensuring that all the aid that is being provided to the country — either for defence or humanitarian aid — is not channeled, rather, to pay debt holders, which would be a total injustice to the Ukrainian people. The Central Bank of Ukraine estimates a fall in its economy this year by about 30 % and the interest rates of the country increased from 10 % to 25 % in June to support its currency. It is therefore a difficult, delicate, complex situation that requires the support of all international institutions and friendly countries, such as Portugal and the whole of the European Union, but which will be dealt with in the appropriate forums, in a multilateral effort, so that Ukraine can not only fulfil but can sustain the current war effort and the future reconstruction of the country. They are in the front line to pay with their lives the defense of the values of democracy and freedom. As regards the European Union, the Commission proposed a new macro-financial assistance operation to Ukraine on 1 July, amounting to EUR 1000 million, as the first part of an extraordinary package of up to EUR 9 billion approved by the European Council on 23 and 24 June. As the Commission communiqué itself points out, the proposal is part of the extraordinary effort of the European Union, along with the international community, to help Ukraine respond to its immediate financial needs. The European Union had already provided an emergency assistance loan amounting to EUR 1, EUR 2 billion in the first half of the year and as a whole the two aspects of the programme will lead to total support for Ukraine since the start of the war of EUR 2, EUR 2 billion when the complete package of extraordinary macro-financial support is operational with the consent of all members of the Union. Under the proposal, the funds will be made available to Ukraine in the form of long-term loans under favourable conditions, and the Union budget will cover the costs of the interest of this loan, which is another gesture of solidarity. We know, however, that these situations are not entirely consensual, there is no sea of roses here nor do we want to hide that. There are discrepancies between several members of the Union on how to help Ukraine, particularly in the larger countries such as Germany. There are discussions as to whether the support to be given by the European Union should be in grants and not loans, not to overburden the foreign debt of that country, but this is a debate and a discussion that is already taking place, which is already underway and no one is waiting for a draft resolution approved here in the Assembly of the Republic to take place. The European Union has provided unprecedented support to Ukraine, including humanitarian aid, development aid and defence assistance, suspension of all import duties on Ukrainian exports and other solidarity initiatives, in particular to resolve bottlenecks in the transport sector, in order to ensure exports, especially cereals. Portugal is also playing its role in bilateral relations. Mr Prime Minister, at his recent visit to Ukraine on 21 May, where he met with the Prime Minister and with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, signed an agreement for the granting of EUR 250 million financial support from Portugal to Ukraine, a financial cooperation agreement, and EUR 100 million will be transferred throughout this year through a Ukraine account in the International Monetary Fund, or through other channels which the European Union will open for direct financing and EUR 150 million will be transferred to the Ukrainian State over the next three years. It is a significant effort of Portugal, it is a very significant effort towards our dimension and it is a clear sign of support from the Portuguese State to Ukraine and its people, in addition to all humanitarian assistance, defence resources and reconstruction aid, as it has also been established.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u313	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u314	I will finish, Mr. President. We are in solidarity with Ukraine, not only in words, we are having concrete actions, as is our duty to the Ukrainian people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u315	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « Sleep well, wake up and smile. Grandma went to get some water. My birthday's coming, it's day 26. I've got a wound in my back, my skin's torn. My sister has a head injury. Mommy's got the flesh ripped off in her arm and a hole in her leg. I'm eight years old, my sister 15 and my mother 38. It's time to make the dressing. I have a friend, Vika, she's happy and she's our neighbor. They're good people. My two dogs died and my grandfather Galya died too. ‘ Mariupol’ — my beloved city also died all this time, since Thursday, February 24. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is the account of the pain, the suffering of Ukraine's war, in the vision of a child, Evgeny Sosnovsky. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, no man or woman can be indifferent to the cruelty and devastation of this war in Europe that affects children, young people, adults and elders. Hell is here very close and it fell on them, surviving is the word of order: to survive the designs, to the devastation of war, to the lack of food, to survive. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen one of the biggest historic hecatombs since World War II and the fastest and most massive refugee crisis. Every day that the escalation of the conflict is intensified, the situation remains extremely dangerous for anyone inside Ukraine and the vulnerability of the forced to flee people increases, with more and more people need immediate support. The invasion of an independent sovereign state, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a clear and gross violation of international law and the Charter of the United Nations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u317	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we live historic times with profound geopolitical impacts. We therefore have a special duty to perceive the historical moment in which we live. It sends the truth that 72 years after the Schuman Declaration, the future of the European Union is played in Ukraine. So let's stand up for it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ukraine's accession to the European Union. unlike the Government, we have never had any reluctance, reluctance or reservation in support of the granting of the status of candidate to Ukraine. We do not hesitate to defend the condemnation of Russia and the application of economic sanctions such as those adopted and which are unprecedented in recent history, the import and export sanctions of coal and other fossil fuels, the ban on ports and the hiring of Russian companies, and the exclusion of financial support to public bodies. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the initiatives currently under discussion want Parliament to make several recommendations to the Government : the preparation of a study on the forgiveness or renegotiation of Ukraine's debt to Portugal, the granting of a moratorium on interest forgiveness or the total forgiveness of Ukraine's debt. We have no doubt — we have never doubted! — what exceptional circumstances oblige us to adopt exceptional measures, but we do not forget the teachings of history and history has shown us the difficulty in resolving issues related to the debts and damage of war. We must be fully aware that these measures cannot be taken individually and unilaterally, only by one country, on the ground that they are not enforceable and that they do not produce the effects that we want. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, external debt is in the hands of many entities: in the hands of the IMF, in the hands of the European Union, in the hands of a number of countries, but also in the hands of privates and the last thing we all certainly want is to benefit the violator and possible Russian oligarchs. [[PSD applause.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that these measures require concerted action and position both at the level of the European Union and at the level of international institutions and bodies. on our part, there is no doubt, any hesitation or uncertainty, and we will follow all those measures that answer this set of questions and bring together this set of assumptions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, live freedom! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u318	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u319	Mr President, the Freeman follows these proposals which go to the Portuguese Government to defend the forgiveness of its debt and interest to Ukraine. How can we not follow these proposals when Ukraine spends more than one tenth of its budget on debt service? Let us imagine a country that is in conflict, such as Ukraine, even though the World Bank does not formally recognize this conflict, although the news about Ukraine on the World Bank website is under the conflict page. Imagine the hypocrisy that we are asking that this country, while at the same time in a war situation as a victim, should prioritise the payment of debt in relation to emergency services. Therefore, of course we follow the initiatives and at the moment that Ukraine already has formal status as a candidate for the European Union, conditionalities are reduced to a minimum, with an exception, and there is a difference in relation to the Block project : there are some conditionalities that make sense and I think they will follow if we say that it is not only in Russia that there are oligarchs, it is not only in Russia that there are problems of corruption and it is not only in Russia that there are problems of the rule of law. That is to say, there are conditionalities in relation to these matters both in the relationship between the European Union and Ukraine, through loan or direct support, and in the accession status which must, of course, be envisaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u320	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u321	Time's up! It's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u322	I end by saying just one thing: what we don't realize is how there is a party that says « Pay Russia, pay Russia 20 years ago», but when there was a project about Russia starting to pay already in the form of a trust account for gas payments, they abstained. Total hypocrisy! You know that Russia's money has gone to fund your political family's parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u323	I ask the services that are opening the quorum verification system. I now give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has always denounced how the indebtedness of States, the exchange of such IMF or even European Union macroeconomic assistance programmes has been and is used to impose the economic and geopolitical domain of the main economic powers on the poorest and least developed countries and has served to prevent the economic and social development of various States, impose neoliberalism and limit sovereignty. The case of Ukraine is no exception, despite its particularities. It is a key country in the geo-strategic projects of the United States of America, NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and the European Union. The most significant part of Ukraine's public and private debt stems from the appropriation by the Ukrainian oligarchs, in conjunction with the major transnationals, the wealth and heritage of Ukraine right after the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the progressive conversion of the Ukrainian economy according to the associated neoliberal cartilage and dependent on the United States of America and the European Union. The proposals on the cancellation of Ukraine's debt that have been presented in the Assembly of the Republic do not aim to support the people and their needs nor to enter the path of peace and the negotiated solution of this conflict, but rather to prolong the war and the exploitation that the great capital and the great powers, especially for the United States of America, are making. These proposals cannot be disconnected from the colossal quantities of armaments that are being placed on that territory and in the hands of extreme right forces, nor from the expectation of those who profile themselves for the gigantic business on the pretext of reconstruction and for which the great multinationals want to see created the conditions that ensure the expected profits. [[PSD Member Protests Ricardo Baptista Leite.]] The debate on debt, be it this country, be it the illegitimate debts of many African or Latin American countries, among others, can and should take place since it has been conducted to promote peace and cooperation among peoples and not confrontation, pillage and exploitation of the suffering of peoples. To be clear: the CFP is in favour of the annulment or renegotiation of illegitimate and unjust debts in the interests of its peoples, but the cancellation or even the renegotiation of Ukraine's debt under current circumstances is not an act of justice for the people and workers of that and other countries. It is an incentive to prolong the war, mutualizing the costs of the weapons and the destruction they are causing. Because we defend peace, we understand that Portugal should not pay for militarism and war that others insist on prolonging and intensifying. That is why we voted against it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u325	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u326	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos : The CFP does not vote against because of the extreme right and the United States. The CFP votes against because it has always been with Russia in this military invasion. That is why the CFP votes against, that is nothing else! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u327	We're talking about PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u328	I should be ashamed to be such a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u329	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I was, I confess, a little foolish with the argument. If I understand correctly, the honourable Member said this: "It is that, my dear ones, we are already paying a lot. We are already paying subsidies that we should not, we are paying the bank what we should not, we are paying the industries what we should not. So, dear fellow countrymen, why don't we pay others even more, since we have so much money available? » That's not how one manages a country, Mrs. Member! A country manages to look to the future. It makes no sense, as the Ukrainian Government itself has already acknowledged, that Europeans are lending — and well — millions, billions of dollars and euros to Ukraine and now we will just come to say: what does this matter? Nothing, it's off, it's like it doesn't exist. That's not how it works! What works is we know how to support when it is necessary to support, but not support at the expense of the Portuguese, the Spanish and the Italians, it is to support at the expense of the Russians, because they generated this war. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The honourable Member says: "No, no! Who are we going to penalize? The Russians? No, we're going to penalize the Portuguese more. » That's how the PAN works! That is why it went from four to one and, perhaps, it moves from one to zero very soon. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u330	To close the debate on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u331	Mr. President, Mr. André Ventura copied the Block project. He copied it literally! [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u332	When he delivered the Assembly of the Republic project, he made a copy paste and the project came to say that the Left Block recommended. But where, in the Block project, there was solidarity, now there are the wells of the Reach: there is hatred, there is division, there is national selfishness, there are even the lips of xenophobia that the Reach so much likes to propagate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u333	Mariana has the exclusiveity of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u334	It doesn't matter to Mr. André Ventura that the Ukrainians were subjected to, just as he didn't care about the austerity that the Portuguese were subjected to, because he supported the memorandum when he was in the PSD. Mr Ventura is living well with the odious debts of African countries, which are looted by international interests. Mr Ventura does not know what justice or solidarity is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u335	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u336	You only know punishment, you know hate, you know division. He can't, he doesn't want to do politics any other way. [[CH protests.]] Now he says he wants to send the bill to the Russian oligarchs. He lives well with the Russian oligarchs in Portugal, lives well with the visosgolds that protect the Russian oligarchs, lives well with the offshore where the Russian oligarchs hide their money. Mr. André Ventura, a good initiative would perhaps be to ask his colleagues Le Pen and Salvini to return to Ukraine the money they received from Putin.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u338	Perhaps it would help pay the Ukrainian debt and could help the Ukrainian people. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, stop making excuses. Russia will pay what it has to pay, it will be punished as it has to be — Russia, not the Russian people, because there are those who suffer and there are those who fight this invasion and this war in Russia. Russia will pay what it has to pay, but we are not talking about Russia, we are talking about Ukraine, the Ukrainian people and solidarity with the Ukrainian people. Mrs Carla Castro, don't confuse will with fear. Ukraine has no desire to fulfil its commitments. But what distorted morals is that it is understood that the financial commitments are above all other commitments, up to the commitment of life, defense, health and food? Why are financial commitments so important that they are unquestionable and always above all other commitments, even the most basic solidarity? Ukraine fulfils its commitments because it is afraid, because it knows that, on the day it does not comply, it is attacked by rating agencies, it is attacked by markets, which will not have clemency. They will destroy that country more than the invasion of Russia destroyed. That's why, sirs. Members, to say that Ukraine pays the debt for its own good, to say that to forgive Ukraine's debt is to benefit the offender, to say that to forgive Ukraine's debt is to prolong war, it is a world on the contrary, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. It is a world on the contrary and we regret it. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH-protests and BE-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u339	We shall then proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I ask the services to close the quorum verification system and to advertise their results. [[Pause.]] We have quorum. I wonder if any of the Members have not been able to register. Everyone was able to register, so we will then begin the deliberations. First, we have the Vote Project No 111 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — Regret for the death of João Ferreira de Almeida. To proceed to your reading, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u340	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on June 16, 2022, at 81 years of age, João de Freitas Ferreira de Almeida, one of the fundamental references of the emergence and consolidation of contemporary sociology in Portugal. Natural of Porto, moved to Lisbon at the age of 8 and it is in this city that will make its way of life. Graduated in Law by the University of Lisbon in 1964, at a time when sociology was banned in our country, joined in 1970, at the invitation of the Adérito de Sedas Nunes, the GIS - Office of Social Research, pioneer project and true embryo of the first researches and institutions linked to sociology. It is in this context that in 1972, at the time of its foundation, ISCTE, then Instituto Superior de Ciências do Trabalo e da Empresa, in which the designation'sciências do trabalo' was possible nomenclature for the teaching of themes close to sociology. He will also be a researcher at the Institute of Social Sciences at the University of Lisbon, largely resulting from the institutionalization of the GIS. Ferreira de Almeida was directly linked in the ISCTE to the creation of the first degree in sociology in Portugal after April 25, 1974, and will have a leading and decisive role in the development, consolidation and affirmation of this social science, in which he would become a doctor in 1984. Partner No. 1 and first president of the Portuguese Association of Sociology, whose foundation led in 1985, President of the Scientific Council of the ISCTE and later, outstanding President of this institution for more than a decade, between 1992 and 2005, the role and legacy of João Ferreira de Almeida affirm themselves and also remain as a teacher and researcher. It is remembered by several generations of students not only by the educated and stringed posture with which it has always guided the pedagogical and human relationships, but above all as an inspiring teacher, from the very rare ability to make the erudition of his thought and reasoning accessible and intelligible. In teaching and research, he made the crossing of paradigms, theoretical perspectives and disciplinary contributions a distinctive, indeed, a brand of contemporary vision of sociology. He has made remarkable contributions, often founders or innovators among us, on several themes of structural importance for both sociology and Portuguese society, with emphasis on social classes and inequalities, poverty and social exclusion, the different conditions of youth, particularly those of higher education students, changes in the rural world and, later, the theme of the environment and values and change in Portuguese society. The unique course of João Ferreira de Almeida is irreplaceable in the affirmation of sociology as a consolidated discipline in Portugal and will continue as a reference not only to sociology, but also to social sciences and academia in Portugal. The memory of all who have contacted this figure or who have been influenced and formed by it, and fortunately also his work and his immense legacy, so determine it. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of the sociologist João Ferreira de Almeida, recalling and recognizing his unique contribution and addressing the family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u341	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I welcome the presence, in the galleries, of relatives of João Ferreira de Almeida, chiefs, elements and representatives of the ISCTE, to whom address, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, the most felt condolences. Following the Vote Project No 113 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by a PS Member and a PSD Member ).................................................................................................................. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u342	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « Today died the former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. He was 67 years old and died in tragic circumstances as a result of an attack while attending an election ceremony. This repulsive attack fatally hit the back of the former Prime Minister of a State with whom Portugal nurtures a historical relationship of friendship. Shinzo Abe was head of the Government of Japan in 2006 and between 2012 and 2020, and at the time of the attack he was taking part in a rally of the Liberal Democratic Party ( PLD ) for the campaign of the legislative elections on 10 July. in this moment of pain and sadness, Parliament expresses its solidarity with the friendly people of Japan, expressing its deep regret for this loss and repudiating the barbarous circumstances in which it occurred. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of the former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, addressing his family and the Japanese state with the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u343	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I ask the House to come with me, because we will make a minute of silence in honor of these two citizens. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We move on to the vote of the Draft Deliberation No 5 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Sets the composition, distribution and list of the Parliamentary Groups of Friendship in the XV Legislation. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD and CH, votes against BE and abstentions against IL, the PCP, the PAN, L and the Member of PS Porfírio Silva.]] We are going to vote, in general, on Law No. 15 / 15 / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends labour legislation under the Dignified Work Agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u344	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u345	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u346	Mr President, I would once again like to express the position of the Portuguese Communist Party regarding the vote on the Bill No 15 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), for which the public assessment process is still under way. The legislation is very clear on these issues: discussion and vote must always be after the process of public assessment. We therefore believe that this should be accomplished. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u347	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u348	Mr President, in the same terms and precisely for the same objectives, I would like to say that there is a legal principle, in particular directed at matters related to the work area, and, however, we will have for the second time, for the second consecutive week, a decision which, in our view, is unconstitutional, because it does not respect the necessary fulfilment of the public hearing period on these initiatives before the general vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u349	The two positions shall be duly recorded. All parliamentary groups know what the Bureau understands : that is the determination of Article 470. that of the Labour Code applies to the whole legislative process and therefore we cannot conclude the legislative process without the workers' representative organisations being able to express themselves about the contents under consideration. And I would like to remind you that this interpretation of the Bureau is in accordance with the understanding that the Constitutional Court itself has already issued in its judgment. We shall then, in general, proceed to the vote on the Bill No 15 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends labour legislation under the dignified agenda but, of course, the position expressed is recorded. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the IL and the PCP and abstentions against the PSD, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We generally vote for Bill No. 2 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, and 10th amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Labour Law in Public Functions ). [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 3 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment of the worker, eliminates the expiry of the collective bargaining and regulates the succession of collective labour agreements ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 63 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms in group modalities and by collective regulation ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 64 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals individual adaptability mechanisms ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] We then voted on an application by the Left Block, requesting the discharge of the Labour Committee, Social Security and Inclusion, without voting for 120 days of Bill No 161 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens mechanisms to combat forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, directly responsible the whole subcontracting chain and user companies, as well as managers, administrators and directors, 162 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal for objective reasons when the employer provides compensation to the worker (twenty second amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 163 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and the social protection of workers by shift and night ( Twenty-second amendment to the Labour Code), 164 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates 35 hours as a normal period of work in the private sector ( twenty-second amendment to the Labour Code ), 165 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Repeals the amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the period of the troika which came to facilitate lay-offs and reduce compensation due to workers by making the twenty-second amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 166 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recognizes the right to 25 holidays in the private sector ( Twenty-second Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 167 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Resets the value of additional work and compensatory rest and 168 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens collective bargaining, respect for trade union affiliation and restores the principle of more favourable treatment for workers ( twenty-second amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote for a request, submitted by the Free, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion, without a vote for 120 days of Bill No. 169 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Extends the rights of parenthood under the Labour Code, strengthening the rights of children and strengthening gender equality in parenthood (the twenty-third amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February of the Labour Code) and 170 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Sets 7 hours a day and 35 hours a week as the maximum of the normal working period in Portugal ( twenty-third amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February of the Labour Code ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion, without voting for 60 days of Bill No 174 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — It foresees the system of menstrual pain defects, amending the Labour Code, and 176 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves measures to strengthen parental protection, for the purpose of the sixth amendment to the Labour Code and the sixth amendment to the social protection system in parenthood within the framework of the social security system and the solidarity subsystem. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No 175 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Change the system of errors due to gestational mourning by amending the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of IL, the CFP, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, PSD and CH.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u350	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u351	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u352	Mr President, it is to indicate that, on my behalf and on behalf of Members Isabel Moreira, Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos and Alexandra Leitão, we will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u353	Be registered. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 41 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the law on circular and ecological public purchases. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, CH, BE, PAN and L, and abstentions by the IL and the CFP.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 142 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — establishes measures to promote ecological design and increase the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] The general vote of Bill No 159 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Establish criteria for public services and environmentally sound, sustainable and socially just purchases. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 160 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes measures to promote sustainability and ensure equipment to combat planned obsolescence. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 171 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the Legal Regime of Ecological and Circular Public Procurement. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, CH, BE, PAN and L, and abstentions by the IL and the CFP.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 31 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extension of incentives for the establishment of health professionals in units and geographical areas with health deficiencies. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 158 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Incentives for the establishment of health professionals in deprived areas. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PS, CH and IL.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 172 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Alter the incentive scheme for the establishment of health professionals in deprived areas by amending Decree-Law No 101 / 2015 of 4 June 2015. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We voted for Resolution Project No 20 / XV / 1. a (BE) — For the total forgiveness of Ukrainian external debt. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PS, the CH and the IL.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 124 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For a 20-year moratorium on payment of Ukraine's external debt and Russia's liability. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL, BE and L.]] We will vote for Resolution Project No 125 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government consider renegotiation or forgiveness of Ukraine's debt to Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected in favour of PSD, IL, PAN, L and PS Diogo Leone and abstentions from CH and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u354	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u355	Mrs Jamila Madeira asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u356	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the three previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u357	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u358	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u359	Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u360	Mr President, it is also to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the three previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u361	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u362	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u363	Mr. Diogo León, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u364	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a declaration of individual vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u365	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 64 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — By transposition into the Portuguese legal system of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 789, which lays down rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain on-line transmissions of broadcasters and the broadcast of television and radio programmes and Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 790 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on copyright and related rights in the digital single market. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL and the PAN, against the PCP and the BE and the PS and L abstentions.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 28 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Determines the cessation of the regime of granting Portuguese nationality by mere effect of the descent of Sephardite Jews expelled from Portugal in 1496 ( 10th amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October approving the Nationality Law ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE and PS Deputies Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Hugo Oliveira, Hugo Pires, Isabel Alves Moreira and Paulo Araújo Correia and abstentions against CH, IL and PS Deputies Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u366	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u367	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u368	Mr President, it is to inform that the BE Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u369	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u370	Mr President, it is to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u371	Be registered. Mrs. Isabel Moreira is asking for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u372	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I have already made a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u373	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u374	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u375	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, are you asking for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u376	Mr President, it is also to inform me that I will deliver a vote statement on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u377	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The vote on draft resolution No 51 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of an EXIT programme for the exit of the prostitution system. The vote on this draft resolution will be made by points as required by the PSD. We therefore begin by voting on point 1 of that diploma. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the BE were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL, the CCP, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CH and the BE, the vote in favour of the NAP and the abstentions of the IL, the CFP and the L.]] The vote on point 3 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the BE were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL, the CCP and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the L.]] We shall proceed with the vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP and PAN and abstentions from PSD, BE and L.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are certain geographical movements in the Hemicycle to other places which must be contained because we are in voting time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u378	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u379	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u380	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote in the context of the vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u381	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Rui Tavares is asking for the same floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u382	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u383	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolution No 75 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Update of the list of species at risk and in the pathways of extinction and National Register of Classified Natural Values. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The NAP has many projects approved unanimously. Yes, sir. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment and Energy, on draft resolution No 81 / XV / 1, follows. a ( PSD ) — Protect protected areas. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The PSD also cannot complain that its projects are not approved unanimously. In the overall final vote, we shall also vote on the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolution No 82 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government issue a new dispatch of the time limits for compensation for damage to animals caused by the lobe-bieric and awareness-raising for the adoption of preventive measures to avoid wolf attacks. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We voted in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 3 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure and Law No 5 / 2002 of 11 January 2002. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL and PAN and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and L.]] Finally, in a comprehensive final vote, we still have the vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 12 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 884 as regards the exchange of information on third-country nationals. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, IL and PAN, against the PCP and BE and with abstentions from CH and L.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will take note of an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Attention to this opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u384	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Juiz do Trabalo do Porto — Juiz 3, Case No 12088 / 21.6T8PRT, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the President, Augusto Santos Silva, to give written testimony, as a witness, within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u385	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, you have the floor to give us some information about today's session.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u386	Mr President, it is only to inform the House that Mr Alexandre Simões of the PSD, for being in prophylactic isolation, accompanied the work of the session by videoconferencing. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-08.u387	Thank you very much, Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the next plenary session will be on 20 July, Wednesday, at 3 p.m., with the debate on the state of the nation as the only item on the agenda. Very good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 4 minutes.]]
