ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. We will start this meeting of the Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Before we begin this afternoon's debate and give the floor to Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, I would like to inform the House that, this morning, I addressed my Ukrainian counterpart a message to the most vehement condemnation of Russian military aggression — the greatest attack on peace and stability in Europe in decades! — Ukraine, which is a sovereign, free and independent State, expressing the most warm and profound solidarity with the Ukrainian people on the part of Parliament, which I represent. I recall that this debate was scheduled yesterday at the Conference of Leaders, in the face of the tension that was at the border between Russia and Ukraine and the concerns that the situation had raised, concerns that had materialized, this morning, contrary to all the declarations of intent, with full faith, and disappointing all the diplomatic efforts that were being begun. Even before I give the floor to Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr. Secretary of the Bureau has several announcements to make to the House, so I will give him the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Civil House of Mr. President of the Republic sent the following information: the relocation of His Excellency the President of the Republic to Dubai, initially scheduled for 12 to 15 January 2022, was postponed to 4 to 7 March ; the relocation of His Excellency the President of the Republic to Mozambique, initially scheduled for 20 to 23 January 2022, was postponed to 16 to 23 March ; the relocation of His Excellency the President of the Republic to Reichavique was postponed to sine die and the displacement of His Excellency the President of the Republic to The Hague was changed to 21 and 22 February. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u3	Mrs. Members, we turn to the first item on our agenda, which consists of the debate, with the participation of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva, whose presence I thank, on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine that began to be on the border, but which is now already a conflict within Ukraine. To open the debate, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank the Assembly of the Republic for the opportunity of this very important debate on the greatest security crisis that Europe has experienced since the end of World War II. Allow me to allow my first words to be of regret and dismay over the lives that have already been lost because of this military aggression of Russia to Ukraine. at this moment, we have already regretted dozens and dozens of victims, people who have lost their lives gloriously and lost their lives because the most basic rules of international law and the Charter of the United Nations have been, and are being, ostensibly violated by the Russian Federation. The second word is unequivocal condemnation without 'if' or'maybe', without any kind of modulation, an unequivocal condemnation of the act of military, armed aggression from Russia to a sovereign and independent State, Ukraine. This act of aggression must be well characterized. It is a military invasion, with the intent of military occupation, of a sovereign State, Ukraine, by another State, the Russian Federation. This military invasion constitutes an ostensive violation of the Charter of the United Nations, the architecture of European security, which has been laboriously built since at least the 1970s of the last century and also of the Minsk agreements itself that the Russian Federation has signed. It is an act of aggression practiced with a duality that has rarely been seen with this intensity in the international scene in recent decades. It is an act of aggression which, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations has well characterized, is intolerable, unacceptable to the international community. That is why we should perhaps start this debate by reflecting on the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, calling on Russia once again, on behalf of humanity, to bring its troops back to its own territory and to cease this act of aggression against Ukraine. We must also express solidarity and support for the Ukrainian authorities and people. Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic has done so ; at the moment, Mr President of the Republic receives, on behalf of all of us, the Ambassador of Ukraine in Portugal ; I will, on behalf of the Government and also on behalf of the country, last Monday, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. This solidarity and support also extends to the tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens living in Portugal and to the hundreds of Luso-Ukraine citizens living in Ukraine. It is therefore a solidarity with all the Ukrainian people, with particular emphasis on Ukrainians who live in Portugal and are more than 28 000, who are excellently integrated in Portuguese society and who did not deserve to pass and see their families, their relatives, their friends, their compatriots through the barbaries that are being inflicted on them. The point at which we are in a dynamic situation we must follow a minute, but it is a point where a strong reaction from the international community is absolutely necessary politically, economically and also in terms of security and defence. in the political plane, this is a reaction of indignation, of the revolt of the international community verbalized by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, but also by different international organizations, coalitions and platforms of consultation and cooperation. Those who defend international law, those who defend the Charter of the United Nations, those who defend the sacred right of a State and a people to their own sovereignty and the integrity of their territory, must condemn, without any hesitation, what is happening today in Ukraine, which is a military invasion of Russia. The reaction must also be made at the economic and financial level, which is a plan in which the European Union has a particular and understandable protagonist. We decided and applied a first package of sanctions in response to Russia's decision to recognize the alleged independence of alleged popular republics in eastern Ukraine, i.e. to recognize separatist regions of Ukraine. We approved a package of sanctions in response to that decision by the Russian Federation and also in response to the Russian Parliament's approval of the authorization for the use of military force abroad by the Russian authorities. This package of sanctions was directed at individuals and entities, was directed at the prohibition of products from separatist regions and was also directed at the prohibition of financing movements of the Russian State and, in particular, the Russian central bank from the European economic and financial system. These sanctions have been duly concerted with our partners and allies, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Australia and several other nations that have joined us. Today the European Council will provide clear guidelines for a new package of sanctions, even harder and stronger, with even greater economic and financial impact and a Council of Foreign Ministers is already marking for tomorrow in Brussels to formalise its approval. in the security and defence plan, in which our defence structure is NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), which is a defensive alliance, purely defensive, but which has dissuasive capabilities that are strong and necessary, because they are the first barrier to preventing aggression in our territory, throughout today's morning, the North Atlantic Council gave permission to NATO's command to strengthen our dissuasive capacities, particularly in the eastern flank of the Alliance. Therefore, these reactions of Europe, the North Atlantic, the international community, at the political level, at the economic level and at the level of security and defence are a clear response to this aggression of Russia and, of course, will evolve as the situation on the ground evolves. Finally a note of a consular nature: at the date of yesterday, we still had 202 Portuguese citizens, residing, living or temporarily in Ukraine ; 160 of them Portuguese-Ukraine, as well as the others, but of course being Portuguese-Ukraine being in their homeland and not abroad. Today we have mobilized our means, which we had strengthened in the previous weeks, to support the Portuguese and the Luso-Ukraine who wish or have to leave Ukraine by land since the airspace is closed. This operation is under way. So today, we said, in particular through the words of our Prime Minister, that Portugal is fully available not only to welcome these, but to welcome all friends, relatives, neighbors, known to the Ukrainian community living in Portugal and all those Ukrainians who this barbaric Russian aggression forces to move temporarily outside their country. Portugal is and will also be your host home. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. We will now enter the debate, so to speak and ask questions, Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u6	Mr President, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mrs and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, today is one of the darkest days of Europe's recent history. Between peace and war, Russia chose war. This morning, the Russian forces invaded Ukraine, a free and sovereign country. The PSD strongly condemns the flagrant and gross violation of international law by Russia and expresses its total solidarity with the State and with the Ukrainian people and, first of all, with all Portuguese residents in Ukraine. Ukraine is a sovereign country. Russia has denied and threatened this sovereignty at an unprecedented level, seeking for months the Ukrainian State, with thousands of Russian soldiers and in total violation of all international treaties. All diplomatic efforts by Europeans and Americans were only used by Vladimir Putin for a mere staging. The whole world has seen this and has also found that in this crisis the issue of NATO enlargement has always been at the heart of the discussions. It is a fact that whenever the Ukrainian Government has tried to approach the European Union and NATO, with a view to democratic consolidation and economic development, Russia has threatened Ukraine. It was so in 2004, it was so in 2014 and it is now again, with unpredictable consequences. Putin's Russia disturbs democracy, autonomy, the rule of law, human rights, minority rights, the market economy, the globalization of Western values. It bothers her - the western language of humanist values and principles, which are totally incompatible with all and any imperialist vision. The PSD has therefore condemned Russia's decision to recognize the independence of the self-proclaimed popular republics of Donetsk and Lugansk, because it is a violation of international law, Minsk agreements and the principle of respect for the territorial integrity of States. No international order can stand when States feel free to challenge the sovereignty of other States and to change their borders by force. We always defend diplomacy and the peaceful solution to conflicts. Russia is the opposite: it has preserved the diplomatic solution and President Putin is responsible for bringing war back to the European continent. The PSD advocates active coordination between the European Union, the United Kingdom and the United States of America for the adoption of a heavy sanctions package in Russia. This is because this is an unprecedented act of aggression and because the target of the Russians is not just Donbass, nor only Ukraine. The aim is also the stability of Europe and of all international order. Portugal must therefore be available to make this joint journey. We will not be ready to contribute to our part, at the military, economic or diplomatic level, we would be ignoring the danger of having a much darker future for Europe, in particular, and for mankind in general. It is therefore our understanding that the European Union must be ready to send Russia a very strong signal that this attack is unacceptable and therefore must have an exemplary economic and political price and deterrence of new imperialist and anti-democratic adventures. This is a very serious situation with regard to security in Europe, the most serious of recent times, so Portugal must fully take on its commitments and its responsibility as a founding member of NATO and a defender of peace and democratic values. The threat to Ukrainian sovereignty and its territorial integrity must be condemned by all countries which share the values of peace and democracy. in this sense, the affirmation of these values, as well as Portugal's full willingness to cooperate with its allies within the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance must be unequivocal, demonstrating its support and solidarity with the Ukrainian people. Mr President, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mrs and Mr. Members, once again, in the centre of Europe, innocent women, men and children fear for their lives. The reason for such barbarity is Russian imperialism and its total divorce of values and principles that must unite us all and that are essential values and principles for the construction of a freer, fairer, more developed and more respectable world of human rights. Putin's Russia is the opposite of everything. We, Portuguese, Europeans and citizens of the world, must be soldiers in the fight for all that we believe in and that it has cost us so much. in these dark hours, we must be active and supportive to the Ukrainian people and to all those who, within the framework of the international community, condemn war and defend peace, harmony, development and international solidarity. This is where the PSD is. It's the side the PSD has always been on. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u7	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Rui Rio for his speech, as well as for the permanent availability his party has expressed during this crisis, which has taken several weeks, and when the Government has deemed it necessary to consult on issues in which we all benefit from a very strong, very long-lasting, very stable and very genuine political consensus in Portugal. I am also grateful for the references you made to the diplomatic endeavours carried out at the most different levels. Allow me to comment on this: no one told President Putin that he was not available to hear and hear about what he understood, or will understand, be security concerns or the national interests of his country. President Biden, President Ursula von der Leyen, President Charles Michel, we were all telling the Russian side that we were available to consider the two main issues that seemed to be put on the table by the Russian side: firstly, their geopolitical concerns about the security and the level of militarization of their neighbouring countries; and secondly, the issues relating to the so-called security indivisibility, that is, the need to consider each other the security concerns we express. The only thing we have said is that there was, and there is, a European security architecture — built, in fact, with the Soviet Union and then with Russia, since the Helsinki Conference in the 1970s — and that it was, within this architecture, particularly within the framework of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, that these issues should be raised. As regards the relationship between NATO and Russia, since the 1990s, since the so-called founding act, NATO and Russia have a common structure, a common platform to consider together any security and defence issues that want to put each other together. It is the NATO-Russia Council. So we had, and we still have, all the willingness to examine our security concerns each other. What we do not accept is that any State, whatever it is, should assert the power of veto over a third State. What we do not accept is that in the 21st century we still want to conceive relations among nations not on the basis of international law, laboriously built since the end of World War II, but on the basis of obsolete, archaic and illegitimate spheres of influence. We therefore have every willingness to consider security issues each other, but there is no willingness to accept blackmail, to accept intimidation, to accept the threat or to accept veto powers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We tried everything! We have tried to exhaust all the political-diplomatic ways of dialogue, of dialogue, of interaction, of trying to understand each other's views and interests — and what happens is that, over these weeks, what we have obtained from Russia has been no more than double. Joint military exercises with Belarus were to end last Sunday. It came last Sunday, they went on. Russia has repeatedly announced over the past week that it was reducing its military forces stationed at the border, east and north of Ukraine, but in practice it was increasing them. The Russian President has committed himself to the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union to work for ceasefire one day before committing the illegal, illegitimate and incendiary act of recognizing the fantoches republics of Lugansk and Donetsk. So what we got from Russia was duality and duality Russia added aggression. This is what is taking place today: an aggression, an armed act of illegal, illegitimate and immoral aggression, in accordance with any principle of law, moral or ethics in the relationship between States. That is why we say today — the entire international community and in particular the United Nations — that Russia must immediately cease this act of aggression so that the political path can be restored. however, the political path can only be restored if Russia understands that States are sovereign, that the sovereignty of States is inviolable and that the territorial integrity of States is inviolable. Portugal assumes its commitments and assumes them in all spheres or circles in which it participates, from then on, throughout the United Nations as a whole, in the European Union as a whole and then in our collective defence structure, which is NATO. Therefore, on each of these platforms, at each of these levels or plans, we are always involved in the same way, contributing to concertation, to the defense of international law and to the pursuit of peace and peaceful solutions to problems. The 50 million Ukrainians have the right to choose their fate. The 50 million Ukrainians have the right to decide for themselves what alliances they want and what goals they want to pursue. And the hundreds of millions of Europeans, who include both Portuguese and Russian, also have the right to live in peace and stability. That's what this is about. Since the Minister and the President of Ukraine have not stopped remembering these days and hours, we are not only facing a crisis of relations between Russia and Ukraine or between Ukraine and Russia, we are facing the most serious security crisis that Europe has experienced, and is going on since the end of World War II. So, all of us, Europeans, all of us Democrats, all of us, peace lovers, all of us who want the United Nations to represent us, that the conflicts are resolved peacefully and that the ban on armed aggression — which is the founder of the international order and the Charter of the United Nations — is respected today, we must all say: "Presents! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Yes, today, we are all Ukrainians! [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u9	To speak and ask questions, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, the invasion of Ukraine by Russia is unacceptable. The Left Block condemns, without reservation, the ongoing attack and occupation of the territory of a sovereign country. There are no good imperialisms and bad imperialisms. They are all dangerous to the people and therefore we reject Russian military action. We regret all our lost lives and are supportive of all the people who leave their homes behind and flee the war. Thus, first of all, there must be an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian forces from Ukrainian territory. Russia's insistence on the military route must be punished with strong sanctions that directly affect the Russian oligarchy and the country's elite. This is the first question I ask you: does the Portuguese Government support this intention? How will he do it? What are the sanctions reinforcements that will be on the table, for decision, in the next few hours? The second question is specifically about the action of the Portuguese Government and its own sovereign decisions. Knowing that the visasgolds were and are one of the ways of the Russian oligarchs to escape their obligations and to be able to escape sanctions as well, does the Portuguese Government not consider it necessary to immediately suspend the allocation of more visas and withdraw those that have already been assigned? On the other hand, what will the Portuguese Government do to ensure that the Russian elite is penalized, also in its economic interests in Portugal, and that it is not without responsibility for all that it is doing?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u11	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am grateful for the questions put by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and record the condemnation, without reservation, which makes the act of aggression of Russia. It is very important that this condemnation be done and that it be as widespread as possible in this Parliament, which represents the country in its diversity. I also follow the demand for an immediate ceasefire, which, in this specific case, means a ceasefire on the part of the Russians, because they are the attackers, since the fire fired by the Ukrainians today was a legitimate defence fire, in defense of their country and their territory. With regard to sanctions, we will certainly have clear guidelines from the European Council, which meets in Brussels tonight, at present — the Prime Minister is currently moving to that Council, and these guidelines will then be poured out and approved at the meeting of the Foreign Ministers, which is already scheduled for tomorrow at 15 hours, also in Brussels. These guidelines are in the sense that you have indicated, that is, that you continue to sanction the Russian, singular or collective persons directly associated with these decisions, therefore, the decisions of recognition, the decision of aggression and related decisions. These people, individual or collective, are sanctioned in the logic of European sanctions, i.e. their financial assets in Europe are frozen and their freedom of movement in Europe is alibiated. This is added to economic sanctions on the Russian economy, specifically directed in a first package, at the ban on imports of products from the two separatist regions, and most likely today its scope will be extended. Finally, it adds the powerful sanctions, those that concern or go directly to the heart of Russian power, prohibiting the financing, from the European Union, of the Russian State, in particular through the purchase of obligations, preventing Russia's access to Europe's capital and debt markets and also banning movements with the Russian central bank, in addition to movements of Russian banks. That is why I do not have Portugal — and indeed from my point of view! — a national sanctions regime, but implementing, by applying the international and European sanctions regime, any Russian citizen residing in Portugal in any way, with any kind of authorization, being also, or not, Portuguese citizen, who is part of the list of sanctions, is subject to the limitation of movements in Portugal and the freezing of their financial assets. Therefore, in the specific case of persons, whatever type of authorisation they are entitled to, if they are on the list of sanctions, they shall be punished in Portugal, as in any other State of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u13	The Left Block Parliamentary Group continues to speak through Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u14	Mr President, Minister, record that on the suspension of ongoing proceedings for visasgold or Portuguese citizenship, Mr Minister took refuge in the general law and did not condemn this particular process, which is a relevant process because many of these oligarchs have interests, directly or indirectly, through that right of citizenship in Portugal. We therefore hope that the penalty will be capable of reaching all its members, but also its citizenship, in this context, and that the government will have that courage. [[PS Deputy Protests Urban Constance of Sousa.]] We know that the military escalation has occurred on both sides of the Ukraine border and even on the various national sides of the borders of Ukraine, because there has also been a growing deployment of NATO troops in neighbouring Russia and Ukraine. in the same way, as mentioned, there has been an increase in Russian forces at borders with the European Union. from this point of view, we consider that both actions are unjustifiable and are at the root of the problem that is being faced today. That is why we understand and accept the strengthening of economic sanctions, the persecution of this elite of Russian oligarchs, but we do not understand the escalation of the military route. What NATO's strengthening in recent years in all neighbouring Russia has achieved is a legitimacy of Putin's speech and not the other way around. It is this idea that militarization will bring with it a deterrence that has fueled the escalation of aggression and that, on the other hand, has helped putin's nationalist rhetoric also have internal benefits, which is something he is looking for right now. Therefore, from this point of view, I note that no one has defended NATO military intervention in Ukraine — that is good. however, we think it is wrong to consider that strengthening NATO before economic sanctions, or even in the face of economic sanctions, which do not have the strength they should have, is also a wrong way. As I said recently, more NATO presence does not deter, only scale the conflict. That is why Europe must reject, with all its might, a new enlarged war on its territory, whether it is permanent, or a constant threat on its borders. from this point of view, the ongoing military mobilization on the NATO side does not help solutions, it may worsen some of the problems. What I ask the Minister is what the Portuguese Government will do about this: will it feed the military escalation, with the dispatch of troops to the borders of Ukraine or will it appeal to the return of the diplomatic route? The sending of Portuguese military is a wrong choice and with which the Left Block will not agree. Feeding militarism is insisting on destabilizing that region and creating more problems for the European Union. So I repeat the question: what will the Portuguese Government do about this? In order for the Minister to be able to answer immediately, in the time remaining, I would ask another set of questions, which has to do with respect for international humanitarian law. We note that the Portuguese Government — the Minister has just repeated it — has shown the openness to welcome all Ukrainians in Portugal, in his words: « neighbors, friends, relatives of those who already have their life established in Portugal ». It is a positive step, which we have recorded, but it is still insufficient. in this perspective, to respond to thousands, tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of people who will suffer with this war, is to respond to each and every one of them, not only those who have friends, relatives, neighbors who live in national territory. I would like to have the Portuguese Government's willingness to show that today it will be part of that Europe which will not repeat the mistakes that it has been making for months, leaving so many refugees without the necessary support. I would like to know whether Portugal will also take the lead in this area, ensuring that all Ukrainians and all Ukrainians who need our country to live, to escape the war, have a way out. It was important for us to have this compromise here too today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u16	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u17	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, thank you very much for your questions and, if I may start with our convergence last time, before going to our differences. When I mentioned our willingness to welcome friends, family members, neighbors of the great, respected and well integrated Ukrainian community living in Portugal, I was not setting a limit, I was setting an example. This is because we all know that the better and more intense are the links with the already existing community, the better and easier the integration. Portugal will, as it has always fulfilled, fulfil the obligations of international humanitarian law and our practice speaks for us. We are now reaching the 800 Afghan refugees welcomed by Portugal and continue to be available and to be part of the group of Member States of the European Union which always says 'present', when it comes to receiving and relocating refugees. However, there are three differences between us that are not worth hiding. One concerns the following: it seemed to me that you want always to establish a symmetrical relationship in which there is imperialism, but there is also another imperialism. « If I want to criticise Russian imperialism(...) — these are its terms — (...) I must at the same time criticise imperialism on the other side». I don't think there's this symmetry. I believe that there is even an aggressor power that flagrantly violates its own agreements, the agreements it itself has signed, and the international law, and that there is a defensive alliance that, yes, is also strengthening its capacity for defence and deterrence. So there's no symmetry, not everyone's fault. Guilty, responsibility, rape have a name and face. That's Vladimir Putin's name and his face. Then there is also a difference, which is the honourable Member's understanding that the diplomatic route can only be followed if we renounce our own ability and our own right to defend ourselves, disabling the others from attacking us, but I believe that both things are equally necessary. And that is why, yes, we are strengthening our ability to deter, because it allows Putin to think a thousand times before he dares to do a gesture and take an action that, if it weren't that ability to deter, we wouldn't be sure that he didn't take. Finally, on the question of defence capabilities, I mean that we must defend ourselves, we must have defence capacity, we must have deterrence capacity, it is very different from being militaristic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u19	...it is only our responsibility to protect our own people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u20	We moved on to the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor to speak and ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, our first words are to express deep concern about the developments in the escalation of political, economic and military confrontation, and the serious risks involved in this confrontation. War is the greatest danger humanity faces and Europe has one of the most painful experiences that war can mean. War is not a solution, whether it is a problem, and every effort must be made to avoid it. We therefore believe that the situation in Eastern Europe calls for an intervention by Portugal and the Portuguese Government to counter this escalation of political, economic and military confrontation, which contributes to the dismantling of the situation and a negotiated solution that ensures peace, from the outset, by refusing to involve Portuguese military in operations that contravene these objectives. It is clear today that the situation in Ukraine is not a problem between Russians and Ukrainians, nor just a dispute over territory or demarcation of borders. The problem is deeper, broader and goes far beyond the European East. The fundamental problem, which covers the situation in Ukraine, is the same as we have seen in Yugoslavia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya or Syria. It is the problem of the use of siege, confrontation and war to impose by force economic relations generating greater injustices and inequalities or the appropriation of natural and energy resources. It is the problem of invoking or forgetting international law in accordance with the desirability of circumstances. It is the problem of the use of NATO as an instrument of these objectives and is the problem of the European Union's subordination to the belligerent policy of the United States of America and NATO. It is worth asking who serves a war in Europe. It is not for the Ukrainians or the Russians, nor is it for the other European peoples, but it is for the Government of the United States of America and its military industrial complex. Both to divert attention from internal problems, either to ensure the sale of large-scale arms, or to the economic use of a war to thousands of miles from its own borders, the United States Government and the American military industrial complex are the real ones interested in a new war in Europe and they will certainly be willing to sacrifice up to the last Ukrainian or European to promote it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u22	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u23	It's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u24	On the other hand, we have recorded Putin's recent speech, with statements incorporating his own conceptions of Czarist Russia and which criticize decisions which, within the framework of the Soviet Union, have resolved the question of nationalities, recognizing the rights of peoples and guaranteeing peace for more than 70 years. Since Russia today is a capitalist country, its position is essentially determined by the interests of its elites and the holders of economic groups and, despite the military budgets of the NATO countries being ten times higher than that of Russia, it is not expected that Russia, whose people have known, in history, colossal aggressions, will consider it acceptable for the enemy to be camped at its borders or to do a military siege through an even greater enlargement of NATO. As it is not expected that Russia will accept that the same result will be achieved through the action of the xenophobic and bellicist regime established in Ukraine following the coup d'état of 2014, which involved including the use of Nazi-fascist forces and which has never fulfilled the Minsk agreements to date.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u25	Who didn't meet the agreements? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u26	This was the way that was followed to bring the world here, and this is the path that the PCP condemns throughout its extension. The CFP believes that efforts should be made to ensure peace. in the framework in which the conflict in Ukraine is being put today, the peace solution can only be achieved by halting the escalation of the political, economic and military confrontation of NATO, the United States of America and the European Union with Russia and relying on Russia's contribution to a negotiated political and peaceful solution. The CFP defends this position with the coherence of those who have always rejected war and defended peace as a solution to international conflicts. We defended these principles when the wars of Yugoslavia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya or Syria were at stake. We defend them again today, with exactly the same conviction. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u27	Very bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u28	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u29	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, I must say that I agree with the principles with which you organized the first part of your intervention, in particular, and I think I have taken good note, with your denunciation of those who violate international law and those who use siege, confrontation and war to impose political and economic relations between States or peoples. I also agree with your report of the escalation of confrontation. That is why I cannot understand how you do not apply these principles to the present situation. It is that the escalation of confrontation has existed for several months, because there is a country, called the Russian Federation, which has accumulated military equipment, weapons and fighting units in the immediate vicinity of another country called Ukraine. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u30	This is what Russia has done, until it reaches more than 200 000 stationed soldiers on the Russian side of the border with Ukraine. And it is this escalation that Russia continued when, in conjunction with the Lukashenko regime, it invented joint military exercises, mobilizing more than 30,000 Russian military troops to Belarus, a few kilometres from the northern border of Ukraine. It was this escalation which also continued at the political level and at the political level and culminated in the delusional claim that Ukraine was not really different from Russia or that Ukraine was not entitled to its own identity and sovereignty. Therefore, Mr President, we must be against military escalation, we must be against those who use 'circle, concentration and war' — your words — to impose political and economic relations. I import political and economic relations is what President Putin says he wants to do because he thinks Ukraine does not survive historically without Russia. However, instead of trying to convince Ukrainians about it and wait for Ukrainians to be convinced or say what they think about this extraordinary concept of President Putin, instead of using persuasion, conviction, influence, what does he use? Yes, Mr. Deputies, he uses the siege, the confrontation and, since last night, he has been using the war. I find it extraordinary that you can have spent up to now I believe that more than 5 minutes of your time without saying what would result as a clear, crystalline and obvious consequence of the principles you say you defend and without publicly denounce here the act of aggression practiced by Russia against Ukraine. You still have 13 seconds to do it, if you want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u31	Mr. João Oliveira, you can still use the word for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u32	Mr President, Minister, you ask us to condemn just one circumstance, but we have done more than that. We condemned all the path that led us here and condemned all the actions that contribute to the same goal. The escalation of political, economic and military confrontation is not an act, nor is it an isolated circumstance. It is the extension for 30 years from the borders of NATO to the borders with Russia. It is the strengthening of military means and contingents in neighbouring countries of Russia. And it is also military support for Ukraine and the concentration of military in areas such as the demarcation zone that under the Minsk agreements should not have the presence of these military forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u33	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President. We now have a prospect of responding to this situation, sanctions and increasing the concentration of these military means, in the hope of what?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u35	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u36	How does the escalation end the problem? No, Minister, we must condemn everything that contributes to a violent outcome of this conflict, which is already violent at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u37	Mr. João Oliveira, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u38	I conclude, Mr. President. And this is achieved only by defending peace and solutions that are consistent with the defense of peace and not with the promotion of war. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u39	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u40	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, you know that this technique of wanting to condemn everything at the same time is the best way to refuse or be afraid of specifically condemning something. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I would like to spend this minute that I have another principle which the honourable Member has set out and which I can no longer disagree with. The honourable Member says that Russia cannot accept a military siege at its borders. From which I would say that Mr Putin, who thinks that a country's membership in NATO is a military siege to Russia, was available to accept that President Putin would take similar measures to those he is now taking in relation to the Baltic States, which are neighbouring States of Russia and are members of NATO, or perhaps with respect to Poland, which is also a Member State of NATO and neighbouring Russia. No, Mr. Member, whether the United States of America, whether the United Kingdom, Portugal or Russia, no one has that power of veto in an international rule-based order. He had in the 19th century, in the theory of the European concert, in part of the 20th century, in the theory of spheres of influence, had during the Cold War, in which the world seemed divided between two superpowers which, at the same time, were standing and spreading. But there is no place in the world that we want and that you say you want, which is the world based on international law, in rules that apply to all. Then what does the honourable Member understand by extension of NATO borders? Do you mean that you want to deny Hungarians the right to choose their defence alliance? Do you want to deny the Poles the right to choose their defensive alliance? So who's choosing? And if it's Russia you choose, why don't you call it imperialism? [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u41	You now have the floor to speak and ask questions from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Minister, we should not ignore the triple exceptionality in which this debate occurs, i.e. the exceptionality of Parliament, after the elections, within it, the exceptionality of my own parliamentary group - we have assumed our responsibilities - and the exceptionality of being faced with a war situation, a situation we have not known in Europe for many years. Having said this, I would like to begin by stressing, Mr Minister, those which, in my view, are the two fundamental convergences. The first is the convergence of those who consider that a friendly country, a sovereign country and a free country has been attacked and victims of a aggression. And this has all the relevance, all the importance and compels us all, in our opinion, to be supportive of Ukraine and its people. It is just not clear to those who think that the Soviet Union has not ended or those who think that Russia is still Soviet, and those who still found, in this context, a few hours ago, that the invasion was a fiction. Therefore, whoever leaves this alternative thought, realizes that our obligation is to be solidarity with Ukraine. The second convergence, Mr Minister, has to do with the fact that the CDS also believes that this is not a matter for party debate or for some kind of partisan in the country. In the face of a war situation, a confrontation situation, we must be together, close to each other and bear responsibility on behalf of Portugal. That is our understanding. I would like to leave two or three questions on this subject. Firstly, Mr Minister, at your reading—and why, in fact, Mr Putin and his regime are quite misleading about what they do—what is the ultimate objective of this action? How far will the Putin regime go? Until the total annexation, the division of Ukraine, the installation of a childcare system? Do you have a reading about it or not? And in this context, what is the space for dialogue and diplomacy? Obviously, I think of diplomacy as far as the prospect of a cease-fire which must be demanded and which would be very important. On the other hand, Mr Minister, by supporting what he said and by supporting the tightening of economic sanctions which, in particular, the European Union is coming to a decision, I would like to ask him whether in any way we did not exaggerate its possible effectiveness, because many European officials, still recently, said that with these sanctions, Mr Putin might refuse, perhaps not declare war. Well, economic sanctions do not seem to have been effective and, in our opinion, they can lead to profound changes in the European framework itself — and I would ask the question - in this regard, Minister - particularly in matters such as energy, where our own objectives, and I am thinking, for example, of decarbonisation, may be called into question, in a situation which is going to be forced to be a crisis. Mr Minister, we heard here that idea of the pacifiers—they already existed in the time of the Cold War and, apparently, there are now too—that the best thing is not to do anything because, not doing anything, perhaps Mr Putin calms down. On this, I always remember Winston Churchill's famous phrase: "The pacifier is the one that feeds the crocodile, in the hope of being the last to be devoured. It is clear that calming alone will not solve the problem. The Minister spoke of the revision of the European security architecture. It is clear that this review will have to be done, but I am also concerned that Europe has not always spoken in one voice until now. We have seen several speakers, several dialogues between different participants, almost a competition of European protagonists, leaving Mr Borrell's role dead, which should in fact be one of the European Union's voice in this matter. Question : will we not, in the European context, have to strengthen this pillar and this European statement, because we are living quite different times? in the midst of this context and these concerns, there are, in my opinion, positive signs, such as, for example, the concern of the US administration with Europe, since it once again realized that Europe is central ; the proximity of the United Kingdom to the European Union, which we certainly have not seen since Brexit ; the centrality of NATO ; and the position of Turkey.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u43	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u44	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say one last word to the Minister: I think what he said about refugees is of the greatest importance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u45	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u46	at this moment, in fact, we are all Ukrainians. Portugal must once again set an extraordinary example of humanism in the reception and integration of this people, which will be one of the greatest refugee crises in Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u47	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u48	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mr Telmo Correia. With regard to the question on which our reading seems to be the final objective of the actions undertaken by President Putin and by the Russian regime, Mr Deputy, it is very difficult to answer this question, given the duplicity that this regime has proved. It might seem that Russia's final objective was to prevent Ukraine's integration — now in the short or medium term — into NATO, but if that was the goal, it was not worth making it, because Ukraine's integration into NATO is not a matter of our agenda today. As you know better than anyone else, the process of integration into NATO is very slow in several stages and requires profound reforms, not only in the security system, but also in the institutional system, because NATO is an alliance of democracies from the candidate countries. It might be thought that the goal of the Russian regime would be to apply to the Donetsk and Lugansk region the same recipe, so let's say, used in Abeccasia or South Ossetia, and therefore create there an enclave that would provide supposed geopolitical and geostrategic protection for Russia. If so, it would not be understood that the declaration of recognition of independence was made in relation to the completeness of Donbass and not to 30 % of the territory occupied by the separatists. Even if the objective remained in the control of a sort of protectorate over this Donbass region, it would not explain the absolutely unbelievable terms in which Russia's declaration of war is made, which does, indeed, deny Ukraine's right to existence first and secondly threaten everyone with measures, and I quote, «which have never been known in history before». So we can say two very important things. First of all, whatever the objective, of those I have listed, pursued by the Russian authorities, he is illegitimate, he is illegal and he is condemned. Secondly, we must be prepared for all scenarios. I'm sorry to say that, but I can't say anything else: today, we have to work with all the scenarios on the table, because what happens is that Putin's action does not just exceed his words, Putin's action, at every moment, is exceeding as much as we anticipated as possible in that same action. The honourable Member has asked whether we have not exaggerated the belief that sanctions are effective. I'd say no, on the economic pillar. I insist that we work at the same time on two pillars: on the pillar of our own defence, which passes through our own deterrence capacity; and on the pillar of the economic and financial sanctions itself. These are truly alternatives to the military route to impose on Russia the costs in which it deserves to be incurred because of the acts of aggression it carries out. If Mr Rui Rio will allow me, I would quote - as I have heard on this occasion - that if the sanctions can cause additional difficulties - it is worth going through, in detail, because of these difficulties to ensure our essential objective, which is our own peace and our own security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u49	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as possible, we will have a few, few, voting, information that we have quorum, with 33 Members present. You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, in the 21st century, it should not be necessary to recall the words of Martin Luther King, who told us one day that injustice everywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. But today, in hearing the CFP say that this war is only a mere circumstance, in fact, it is necessary to remember that we are faced with a terrible fact, which must be strong and clearly repudiated by all those who take part in the democratic spectrum of our country. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Today, it is a day of regret for European history and for international peace. Today is a day of regret for democracy. For this reason, the People-animals-Nature party strongly condemns Russia's hostile and war acts towards the Ukrainian people, in which it expresses, on the other hand, the deepest solidarity and the desire that the diplomatic route may not be fully unwarranted and that all military forces from the Ukrainian territory may soon be removed. On the other hand, at a time when we all, without exception, should be mobilized for the global economic and social recovery and for the fight against climate change, Russia opted for war rather than opt for peace, thus denying an external policy promoting human rights and democracy itself. The NAP, being a pacifist and defender of diplomacy, clearly reaffirms its concern at the exacerbation of Russia's conflict with Ukraine, a conflict that we cannot but remember, has already caused the death of at least 14,000 people in recent years. We also remember the genocide of the Ukrainian people carried out by the Soviet Government, which took millions of lives and became known as Holodomor, that is, death by hunger. The NAP, being a champion of international law, cannot fail to condemn this belligerent position of Russia in Putin. This position represents an attack on Ukraine's territorial integrity, a flagrant violation of the Minsk agreements, and which is bringing about a war and destabilization within the European continent, with unpredictable economic consequences, but also a clear violation of human rights. in this sense, we cannot fail to greet the government for assuming that our country will be open-handed to welcome all Ukrainian citizens and not only family and friends, as it has already been clarified, who need refuge in our country. Today, we are all Ukrainians. In fact, the war Russia started did not just go to Ukraine, it went to all the people who are in the democratic spectrum and who can dare to face it. The seriousness of this position therefore requires immediate action, but also union of the international community. Mr Minister, there are three questions that we would like to see clarified by our Government. While there are convergences and our solidarity with the restoration of peace and the participation of Portugal in the international agreement, there are issues on which we must act quickly. It was not clear, Mr Minister, that the question of freezing Russian oligarch goods and the prohibition itself of the people and entities of the European Union should be made available directly or indirectly to them. What measures are they going to take and when? The same can be said of the golden visas. Portugal has given open arms the roubles of the Russian oligarchs surrounding Putin — in this case, it is an authentic green road to the nationality given to Abramovich — and it is therefore important to see whether or not there will be a revision of this model and of the visas that have already been granted. An issue which has not yet been discussed here today has to do with the ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which at the moment is becoming increasingly important.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u52	I really am concluding, Mr President. We are talking about an agreement in which the acceding countries accept the ban on the use, development, production, testing, storage and transfer of nuclear weapons. in the European Union, Ireland, Austria and Malta have already joined. Portugal not only did not join, as it is the only official Portuguese country that did not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u53	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u54	That is why we would like to know when to accede to this Treaty. I shall end by reaffirming our commitment to peace and our solidarity with the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u55	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u56	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I thank you for your words and your questions, which I am going to answer directly. As regards the freezing of Russian oligarch goods in Portugal, I insist, Mrs Deputies : those Russian or Luso-Russian personalities who are in Portugal and are part of the list of personalities sanctioned by the European Union, according to our rules and with our legal basis, have their financial assets frozen and no longer have freedom of movement in Portugal or in the European area. We are a rule of law and therefore it is not enough to say that "man is oligarch" or that "I don't like sycrano" to freeze their goods or ban their movements. There is a list—it already goes to more than 500 individual or collective Russian people—which is applied in Portugal, as is applied in any other country of the European Union. Member of Parliament, this also applies irrespective of the residence permit permit issued by persons in Portugal, whether residence permit for investment — such a golden visa — or residence permit for other purposes, investment, work permit, leisure permit, etc. These rules apply irrespective of the circumstances in which people find themselves with regard to the title of their residence in Portugal. I insist on the following, because it is a mistake that is made systematically, certainly involuntaryly: residence permits for investment are not attributions of citizenship rights in Portugal, much less green ways of nationality. On your third question — the one in which we have a disagreement, but I believe that the honourable Member will understand well — on Portugal's accession to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, my answer is very simple : while I am Minister of Foreign Affairs... Why? Because we can't be hypocritical. Portugal is part of an alliance, NATO, which is an alliance with nuclear capacity. So it's not worth pretending that we're not part of it. The European countries that have quoted, which are our partners in the European Union, such as Austria or Malta, are countries that subscribe to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, but are not members of NATO. NATO is a nuclear alliance. And why is NATO a nuclear alliance? Mrs Deputy, there is no better day to understand your reason for being than today. Imagine what would be today if NATO did not have a nuclear deterrence capacity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u57	I have the floor to put questions to Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, peace, yes, war, no. Nothing justifies war and loss of human lives. The Greens condemn Russia, this morning, against the territories of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine. The escalation of aggression and violence cannot be the answer and must be fully condemned. The Greens declare their solidarity with the population of Ukraine, which sees their lives threatened and destroyed. We call on Russia to stop immediately bombings and military intervention in the territories of Ukraine. We believe, on the other hand, that the reaction of Portugal and the European Union cannot be military, which would be an aggravated risk of an unprecedented escalation. But we cannot clear the role of NATO and the destabilization of the region. NATO has shown, since it was created, that instead of promoting peace and democracy, avoiding conflicts or ensuring its peaceful resolution—which are the pretext for its creation and maintenance—is a promoter of war and military industry, serving the expansionist and imperialist principles of the United States of America, promoting conflicts in an endless logic of war. Remember 2014 : a coup d'état in Ukraine, supported by the United States, NATO and the European Union, filed the legitimately elected Ukrainian President and placed in his place someone who served NATO's expansion interests. Perhaps some feel comfortable with this fascist government, which has continuously attacked the Donbass regions, which declare their independence, systematically violating the Minsk agreements, as well as the Russian population of Ukraine. Since the defeat and withdrawal of the troops of the United States of Afghanistan, attention has been directed towards other quadrants. Ukraine is a desirable stage for prolonging a policy of general destabilization, justifying investments by the military industry and continuing to pressure the old enemy, Russia. The United States has tens of thousands of soldiers in Europe, arm the Ukrainian troops « to the teeth », expand NATO military bases in the region, install nuclear-capacity missiles in Romania and Poland. We thus follow the position taken by the United States Green Party, which calls on the US Administration to stop sending millions of dollars of sophisticated weapons to Ukraine and reduce the military contingent in the region. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal and the Portuguese Government cannot align themselves with NATO and the United States' military and expansionist policies. The question I put, Minister, is the following: how does your action to promote bellicism and war coincide with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which obliges us exactly the contrary? It is urgent for Portugal to comply with the Constitution, which re-evaluates its role in the Atlantic Alliance and defends the dissolution of NATO as a political-military bloc. Portugal must accede to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Finally, we reaffirm our ecological and pacifist genesis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u59	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u60	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The resolution of conflicts can only be worked out in a single scenario, that of dialogue, so we call on all parties to pursue a path of peace and the search for diplomatic solutions to the crisis in the region.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u61	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again allow me to begin by expressing my agreement, not with regard to your initial words, but with your final words, although your initial words give me a great deal of appreciation. But the doctrinal agreement is with his final words. We must practice dialogue, not military solutions, to find lasting political solutions. They are, in fact, the political solutions, and not the military solutions, which are lasting. As the military are always explaining to us, military action, when necessary, is a kind of time purchase so that political solutions can be found and put into practice. Once again, I invite you to examine the situation in the light of this principle, which we should favour dialogue and say no to bellicism, militarism and the choice by imposing on the armed force. What is involved in the European Union's proposal, which has become, and is even the proposal to systematically review Europe's security architecture with Russia? That's what Chancellor Scholz said to Moscow. That is what President Macron, on our behalf, because he is the President of the Council of the European Union, said Moscow. What does this proposal require us to sit at the table with the Russians to examine the questions they want to put on dimensions that they may consider obsolete or the need for a review of the European security architecture? Where is this proposal a military action? Where is this proposal an intimidation or a threat to Russia? Where was Ukraine's threat to Russia? Where are the 50 million Ukrainians threatening Russia? What did Ukraine do? Did you military? Did you massively relocate combat units to the border with Russia? Has Ukraine denied the existence of Russia or Russia's right to exist? Therefore, honourable Member, it is not enough to say that we are for peace and war, when someone is making war. It is therefore necessary — since we are for peace and war — to denounce the war that people do and not try this kind of equivalence, in which, as everyone is guilty, the culprits are excused. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u63	You have the floor, to address questions to Mr. Minister, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u64	Mr President, Minister, I wanted to start by saying that the arrival condemns, without reservation, without half-words, the invasion of the Russian Federation to the Ukrainian territory that has taken place today. In fact, despite all the differences that we have, as parties or as politicians, the Arrival agrees that Portugal, after the act that has taken place today, should make every effort from the military point of view and from the point of view of the application of economic, political and diplomatic sanctions not only to Russia as well as its principal leaders. in fact, it seems a little surprising that there is in this Parliament anyone who can talk about the dissolution of NATO and the end of nuclear weapons in the European Union on the day when a European country is attacked by a nuclear power. It seems to be a joke, but it is not. There are those who defend — it was said here in the Portuguese Parliament on the day a nuclear country attacks us, because it is to attack all Europe and its heart — that we should not have nuclear weapons. It would be very nice to defend ourselves with poems, words and roses in hand, but that's not how the Russians understand, nor is that how Vladimir Putin's regime understands. So, yes, we agree, we must make an effort to do so. Mr Minister, is it not true that we have been distracted for a long time, while China duplicated its military budget and Russia annexed Crimea and caused fantoche republics, leaving behind the European budget and the pillar of European defence? I also wanted you to answer a question that concerns the overwhelming majority of Portuguese. A few hours ago, the price of natural gas rose 35 %, the price of energy today hit a new record and many of the Portuguese people who are watching us want to know if, in the country where there are more energy and gas charges, the government will do something so that, in the coming months, the Portuguese will not have to decide between being home hot and putting food on the table. Along with the international issue which we all have in great majority in this Parliament, this is a question which most Portuguese today would like to see answered. I repeat: what will the government do about an energy price escalation, which is expected not to be so reduced in the coming months? That, yes, is an issue that, in the middle of winter, is of interest to all Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u65	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u66	Mr President, Mr Ventura, on the matter which you know, Portugal did in due course what it should do to become less dependent on fossil fuels. Today, more than half of the electricity we consume comes from renewable energy sources and we are from the least dependent European countries of the Russian Federation in terms of gas and oil. If I may add one point, I would just like to draw your attention to the following: it is also the autocracy that leads to war. It is also the idea that foreigners are an enemy or an enemy potential and the idea that there are peoples, whatever they are, to whom the right to existence can be denied, as well as the dislove of liberal institutions, the dislove of democratic institutions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u68	...that you don't want to listen to people and not want to respect people's choices, which leads to war, leads to bellicism, leads to militarism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I believe that, too, there is a lesson that this House and all of us should take into account. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u69	To put questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this time we have heard harsh words of condemnation of the intolerable invasion of Ukraine by Russia by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the part of the European Commission by other political leaders. But these are just words, and the defense of freedom and human rights cannot only be rhetorical, because the words did not prevent Putin from making a cat-satisfaction of the appeals to diplomacy and peace. The words did not refute the imperialist ambitions nor prevented Russia from continuing to station troops on the Ukrainian border, in a clear intimidation maneuver; they did not prevent Russia from preparing massive military exercises at the borders with Ukraine and Belarus, that dictator-fantoche Lukashenko ; they did not prevent Russia from recognizing the independence of the provinces of Lugansk and Donetsk, in clear violation of international law and Ukrainian sovereignty; and finally, in the morning, they did not prevent Russia from invading Ukraine and attacking several points of Ukrainian territory, including its capital, Kiev, by bombing the Brovary suburb and Gostomel Airport, already causing dozens of deaths. Putin won't stay here and it's obvious to everyone that it won't be the words that will stop him. It is time, moreover, to move from words to action. First, on the humanitarian side, all support for Portuguese in Ukraine and all support for Ukrainians residing in Portugal, their families in Ukraine and all those in need of help or refuge must be provided. We welcome the position of the Portuguese Government today, assumed here, which only sins for not having been taken more than a week ago, when the Liberal Initiative urged it publicly. Secondly, the decisions of drastic sanctions which the European Council and the G7 itself ( Group of Seven) will take today, even if they have economic costs for Portugal, should be supported. The defence of freedom and human rights, I said, cannot only be rhetorical. Finally, the letter must respond to Putin's unacceptable threat of retaliating, and I quote, « never seen», any interference with his imperialist intentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u71	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is essential to strengthen military deterrence, including Portugal's participation in NATO's rapid reaction force and, at this time, to increase the threat of retaliation to any aggressive intention towards Poland or Romania and, above all, our European Union partners Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, especially vulnerable to Russia's ambitions in the Kaliningrad corridor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u73	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u74	Mr President, I shall end with a final word for the health enthusiasts, because the shameful support of the CFP for this aggression serves to remind all of us that the enemies of freedoms are present at the various ends of this Parliament and, if we do not denounce this, any day we are discussing a much more serious situation here in Taiwan.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u75	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u76	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u77	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I also agree with you when you say that it is not enough to keep the words and that action needs to be taken. But in all the examples he has given, I have seen and see the action of the European Union. We acted at the time of the annexation of Crimea, indeed, we made sanctions, which are also quite powerful, including on our own economies; we acted at the time of the hybrid war in Donbass; we are now acting, as we had done before, during the war of the invasion of Georgia, and so on. The question, perhaps, is in the form of action. It seemed to me to hear from the honourable Member that we should follow the 'tooth by tooth' process, that is, if Putin militarily scale, we should also scale militarily. Dissuasion is not good. Dissuasion is that we have and will show our own defence capabilities, but we will keep ourselves in the defence record that is ours. We are not aggressive, we are not offensive, we do not favour the military path on the political path. We also follow these principles in our reaction. I believe that these principles are the most appropriate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u78	To conclude the debate, there will be two interventions from the PS Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Mr Capoulas Santos has the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u79	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members, this debate, which is about to end, on a crisis that represents the greatest threat to world peace that we have witnessed since the post-war period, has confirmed that there is broad consensus in Portuguese society and its political institutions regarding the condemnation, without any consideration, of the Russian authorities for their sole responsibility in this conflict. There is no historical argument, recent or remote, that can justify the use of force to alter internationally recognized borders and call into question the territorial integrity and sovereignty of an independent country. International law, European security and world peace itself are at risk, because diplomatic efforts at all levels, even if they might seem to be at present, must be continued, without failure, in order to reduce tension and minimize as much as possible the economic and social consequences of an unpredictable dimension. I would therefore like to applaud the way in which the European institutions — in particular, with the Council's formation that the Minister is part of — have been responding to the situation created by Russia, that is, firmly but prudently and gradually what the circumstances require. The unity of the 27 so far demonstrated, which is always so difficult to achieve, even in relevant matters, and the good coordination of the European Union with our extra-Community allies, in addition to confirming the seriousness of the situation, is a sign of responsibility and affirmation of the European project, which gives us confidence for the future. at a time when we began to see victory over the greatest pandemic of the last century, when the generality of economic indicators gives us positive signs of recovery and when all efforts at the global level should be focused on the greatest challenge facing humanity, climate change, than Europe and the world need less is the opening of a confrontation of great proportions, which can only cause civilizational regression and a useless and incommensurable human suffering. Until a few hours ago, I had several concrete questions to ask you about the various scenarios that could happen, to try to find a solution to the Ukrainian problem. However, the recent events show that we are faced with a dangerous development of a broader design of the Russian leadership that calls into question our security architecture and the European Union itself, which only leads me to reiterate the support of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to the Ukrainian people and to the action of the Government, in particular on the European front, encouraging the continued constructive, prudent and responsible position that constitutes the mark of Portugal in the Council of the European Union and in the international bodies in which it participates. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u80	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u81	Mr President, Mr. Luís Capoulas Santos, in fact, there is an absolutely essential feature in European behaviour so far, which is unity. The unity, firstly, between the 27 and the speed of the joint response of the 27, and also the convergence with our closest allies, from the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. This unity makes us strong because one of the objectives — and they were not unconfessed objectives — explicitly confessed by President Putin was that of the disunity of Europe, that of the division of Europe. And that is why it has been so important this concerted work done at different levels, from Heads of State or Government to permanent representatives in the European institutions, because it gives strength and effectiveness to the European action which it would not have had if the unity did not exist or could be questioned. Then the prudence. We are talking about very dangerous circumstances and where any miscalculation can produce absolutely devastating undesirable effects. Therefore, as often as it costs us, it is necessary to preserve the cold head, it is necessary to preserve rationality, it is necessary to be cautious and prudent. from this point of view, allow me, Mr President, to take this opportunity to highlight and welcome the impressive restraint that Ukraine has given evidence. The cold blood, the ability to resist, the ability to act rationally and the restraint shown by the Ukrainian authorities so far are some of the reasons why they deserve both our support, our solidarity and our close presence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u82	Mr Ana Catarina Mendes also spoke by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the Conference of Leaders, when we started this debate, we did not want to believe that today we could have agreed in a different Europe and, I dare you say, in a different world. That is why the first word of this Parliamentary Group, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a strong condemnation, without any tibiasity, of what happened this morning: a military invasion, a military aggression from Russia to Ukraine that we did not want to imagine that it would be possible, after months and months to try the diplomatic way. This morning will be for history as a black day, a black page. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wants to address the millions of Ukrainians. Those who have seen today the images of men and women, old and young, children fleeing the war, who have no reason to exist, cannot fail to give a word of solidarity and profoundness — I repeat, deep — gratitude for the noble way in which they have resisted silent aggressions over the years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We agreed, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the war back to European theatre, in a military action, as has already been said during the evening, extremely serious, illegal, unprecedented in Europe since the Second World War. This was our space for peace, stability and security, and at the moment it is deeply threatened. This act of military aggression against a sovereign country is of such gravity that it violates the most basic rules of international law and the Charter of the United Nations, and is also an obvious attack on human rights and freedom of the Ukrainian people, an attack on the principles of world order and peace. It is indeed an attack on democracy and on all Democrats! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This act of military aggression, planned and deliberate, as well as the recognition of the so-called 'independence of separatist regions', is clear violations of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, to which we once again express our solidarity. The Minister said recently, and we agree, that today we are all Ukrainians, because today we are all defending freedom and democracy. Today, we know that Putin's target goes far beyond Ukrainian borders. We know that the target is, as it has been for so many years, peace, stability and security in Europe. It is democracy and freedom that Putin sees not as allies, but as threats to his autocratic power and his dream of returning to the Russian or Soviet empire. As Democrats, we all affirm that it is intolerable what happened tonight and what is happening. As defenders of international law, we really have to say that, yes, there are guilty, yes, there is a face of this culprit, and this culprit is Vladimir Putin. In view of these tragic events which, I repeat, result from the internal political maneuvers of consolidation of power and an outdated vision of strategic areas of influence, which cannot take place in a world that is open, of dialogue and of cooperation, we cannot lose sight of the main ones affected by this act of aggression. We therefore attach the voice of this Parliamentary Group to the voice of the Government and to the voice of all those who not only call for condemnation of this aggression, as they demand the urgent withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine. We join in our voice to all those who hope that a diplomatic solution to deter the path that Putin's Russia is anxious to choose will be possible. Today, more than yesterday, the union of all allies — let us not forget, of all allies — is fundamental to the unequivocal condemnation of these events and the application of sanctions, as Mr Minister said, strong and very strong, before what is happening. The United Nations, the European Union, NATO, all strongly condemned the decision and, fortunately, this Parliament is also doing so. It is essential that this union be maintained and it is also vital that the security of the eastern flank of NATO and its power of deterrence be strengthened for which Portugal has a duty to contribute. This union and this coordinated response must prevail, for the benefit of the Ukrainians, for the sake of democracy, for the sake of the principles of international order. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I do not raise any questions. First of all, I want to greet the Portuguese Government for once again we will continue to be a humanist country, a country that integrates, a country that receives and will receive all those who flee this war and this barbarous act. Secondly, I would like to welcome the decision of the Portuguese Government to ask our embassies to pass visas without reservation to those who seek peace, freedom and democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u84	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u85	Mr President, I thank Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes for her words. Allow me, therefore, two comments, or two developments, and the first to be totally clear about what is condemned and unacceptable in this situation. Russia has every right to express its divergence over the existence of the Atlantic Alliance, has every right to express its divergence over the composition of the Atlantic Alliance and has every right to express its divergence over the missions and objectives of the Atlantic Alliance. Russia has every right to make a reading of its security conditions, according to which these security conditions have a strong territorial and geographical dimension. We understand that it is an obsolete reading, but we recognize Russia's right to have that reading. More: Russia has every right to put on the table, in international relations, be bilateral, be multilateral, which it believes should be its national interests, its strategic interests, its security concerns. Russia has every right to highlight this principle more in the European Union's structural documents than that one, more in the European Union's security architecture than in the other. Therefore, when Russia says « we value the principle of indivisibility of security above all », we say that no decision on the safety of one must be made without paying attention to equivalent decisions of others and we also say « let us look at these problems », because all these problems can be examined. We have differences of geopolitical insertion, differences of interests, differences of history, differences of conceptions and visions of the world. That is not where the problem is, the problem is that, at least since 1945, with the foundation of the United Nations, the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights - documents signed by Russia - we have now considered the world of international relations not as a world of permanent combat against the strong and permanent oppression of the weak by the strong, but as a world organized in rules on which we agree and on the basis of which we are peaceful, political and diplomatically speaking the differences we have. However, this world of rules is incompatible with acts of threat, acts of intimidation and much less compatible with acts of aggression, with wanting to resolve the issues by denying to the interlocutor the right to existence, with wanting to resolve or assert our interests by denying to the contrary interests any kind of dignity and, at least, by trying to solve our problems to the law of the bullet. And it is the law of the bullet that is now reigning over Russia's responsibility, which has been attacking and invading Ukraine for several hours. It was already serious that Russia had broken Minsk's agreements which it itself had signed and called into question Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, first of all inventing those fantoche republics and now pretending that it was legally recognising its independence. That was already serious and it deserved the ready and firm answer on our part. Since early this morning Russia has broken another red line, one more threshold, being in full military aggression against a sovereign state and causing the greatest security crisis in Europe. This is a first comment. But we have lessons to learn, because security issues cannot be dissociated from economic issues. Our ability to defend the peace and security of our peoples cannot be dissociated from our own resilience to the infrastructures that we need our development and the quality of our democracy. The economic dependencies that are tolerated become, sooner or later, political dependencies and even strategic dependencies. That is why the Prime Minister of Portugal will once again say, as he has said over the past six years and as he said before, Prime Minister of Coelho, that Europe can no longer circumvent the issue of excessive dependence on Russia on energy, because this gives Russia a leverage and a weakness to Europe that only contributes to a strategic and political imbalance. It is very important to react now, but it is also very important to deal with the diversification of energy sources in Europe, the interconnections that must travel, organize and structure the European energy market throughout Europe, because that is how we become less dependent. When we become less dependent, we become more independent and therefore more autonomous and more sovereign. One thing we know: it is not just the security of Europe, it is the stability of the world that needs a strong Europe, an independent Europe and a sovereign Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u86	Thank you very much, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs. We have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda. There have been quorums — 34 are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to move on to the second point, the votes. Mrs. Members, paragraph 33 of the Diário is hereby approved for the meeting of the Standing Committee on 10 February 2022. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, it is considered approved. I now ask Secretary Diogo Leon to read out an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u87	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Évora, Judge of Criminal Instruction of Évora — Judge 2, Inquiry 49 / 21.0GTEVR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr Eduardo Cabrita ( PS ) within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-02-24.u88	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. Good afternoon, everyone. The meeting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 58 minutes.]]
