ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. First of all, Mr. Secretaries of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha and Duarte Pacheco will read the file. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I begin by announcing the withdrawal of the Resolution Project No. 45 / XV / 1. a ( IL). I would also like to inform you that you have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Law No. 15 / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos 85 and 87 / XV / 1 also entered. a ( PSD ), down to 11. the Commission, 88 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 89 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 90 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) and 91 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission. Bill Nos 101 / XV / 1 also entered. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 113 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 114 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 115 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 116 and 117 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), down to 1. the Commission, 118 and 119 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), down to 6. the Commission, 120 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 121 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 123 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 124 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 125 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 126 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u3	Mr Duarte Pacheco, I ask you to continue reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have yet to enter, and have been admitted, Law Projects Nos 127 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 128 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 129 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 130 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 131 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 132 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 133 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 134 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 135 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 136 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 137, 138 and 139 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which fall to 11. the Commission, 140 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 141 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 142 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u5	Thank you very much, ladies. Secretaries. The setting of today's agenda results from a legislative agenda required by the PS, in which we will generally proceed to the discussion of Bills Nos 74 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code, 5 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code, 83 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code and 111 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code, together with Draft Resolution No 62 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Conduct of a referendum on the decriminalization of assisted drug death. on the second point, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. To present the Socialist Party bill, Mrs. Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is no longer the debate of seven years ago, taken to the Congress of the Socialist Party by several of us, being to highlight the Deputy Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos, and brought to Parliament by thousands of citizens, some already missing and today as present, as Laura Ferreira dos Santos and, of course, João Semedo. This is no longer the debate of the first projects of the Left Block, the PS or the ENP, of three legislatures. It is a debate on the same subject, but knowing the country that, after two votes, in this plenary, with unprecedented majority and a parliamentary and social debate carried out with depth, pluralism and openness for so many years, it is certain that, following the words of the Constitutional Court, «the right to life cannot be transformed into a duty to live in any circumstance». Following the request for preventive supervision by the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court considered that the principle of the inviolability of human life was not generally an obstacle to the death of assisted medicinal products. The Constitutional Court has therefore accepted the regulation of assisted drug death, putting aside the opposite argument, so we are no longer there. What we had to do was, in respect of the Constitutional Court's pronouncement, densify concepts, in particular that of « definitive injury of extreme gravity », in accordance with scientific consensus. Of course, following the broad clues left in that judgment, particularly with regard to Spanish law, the densification of the concept referred to went through the elaboration of a precept dedicated to the definition of the key concepts of the diploma. The non-formalization of all the precepts from the article with the binding definitions — will be remembered that the CDS objected to the final drafting of the diploma — was sufficient for the President of the Republic to raise the doubts present in the veto he addressed to us. We could have confirmed the diploma, following some constitutional doctrine, but, as at all times that marked this subject so worthy, we want nothing but non-democracy without macula, so here we are, with a bill that uniforms all definitions from Article 2. which, in response to Mr President's veto, specifies that it is not « serious or incurable disease », but rather « serious and incurable disease », defined as « disease threatening life in an advanced and progressive phase, incurable and irreversible, causing suffering of great intensity ». In turn, as already stated in the previous decree, it is understood as ‘the ultimate injury of extreme gravity’ to the ‘severe, definitive and broadly incapacitating injury that puts the person in a situation of dependence on third parties or technological support for the realization of elementary activities of daily life, and there is a very high certainty or probability that such limitations will persist over time without the possibility of healing or significant improvement’. We believe that in terms of comparative or national law, there are no more densified concepts than these or more defensive laws. With due respect, after the Constitutional Court's judgment already referred to and before this drafting, insist on the unconstitutionality of the project that today is being debated would lead to the need for unconstitutional, for a vast majority of reasons, many rules currently in force. Exemplifying with a case that, for President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, is absolutely peaceful: who insists that there is still unconstitutional indetermination in the concepts is constitutionally Article 142. the, paragraph 1 (c) of the Penal Code, which provides that the voluntary interruption of pregnancy is not punishable when, and I quote, "there are certain grounds for providing that the unborn child will inevitably suffer from severe disease or congenital malformation"? I believe that there is no medical celebrances in the application of this principle, drawn up by the legislator precisely because he is not a doctor, but I wonder if this rule is more or less dense than that which provides for the concept of « ultimate injury of extreme gravity». It is appropriate that, as in all sovereignty bodies, there should be consistency, and we have done the work that is required and that the Constitutional Court has so well outlined. On the other hand, it does not seem fair to us to doubt the scope of the diplomas that have always been voted on in this matter. I recall that twice the Assembly of the Republic has approved for much more than the absolute majority of Members in effective functions to decriminalise assisted death. A law that, for some, sins too cautiously and which, in short, recognizes this: in strictly delimited cases, the irreversibility of physical degradation and the atrocious suffering caused by it justifies accepting the will to anticipate the death of those who experience this difficult end of life to adjective. Twice, the President of the Republic has not promulgated what Parliament has approved. For the first time, he invoked doubts about constitutionality, which gave rise to the judgment which states that there is no duty to live, and then politically vetoed, invoking doubts of legal interpretation. But let us not forget that the President of the Republic, in his request for the review of the law by the Constitutional Court, did not ask that this assessment affect the variability of verbal formulas — 'uncurable and fatal' in two articles and 'an incurable nature of the disease' in another — used to refer to the condition of 'extremely serious disease' as a requirement for the application of medically assisted death. That is, the terminological variety to state the disease requirement actually existed in the early version of the law. The reality is what it is, the fact is that in a second moment, and in your own right, Mr President has doubts, and here we are. But we know, and you know who is in good faith, reading the definitions of concepts that have always been in the law approved here, that « fatal disease» has never meant « imminent death». There has always been a disease of extreme gravity that puts the very survival of life at risk, causing atrocious suffering to the patient. Legal regimes that legalize assisted suicide and / or euthanasia are increasing in Europe : Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Switzerland, Spain. In Germany, assisted suicide was legalized by decision of the Federal Constitutional Court, before the legislator's inertia. In Italy, also by decision of the Constitutional Court, the suicide assisted in certain circumstances was decriminalized and recently approved in the lower chamber the legislative diploma aimed at regulating, in accordance with the Court's judgment, the case of the assisted suicide. In none of these countries the death of an assisted drug is limited to cases where the person is in imminent death — none! In addition, it is important to note that in Canada the federal legislator was forced to amend the legislation in 2021, after the Supreme Court of Quebec had considered unconstitutional the rules that limited access to drug-assisted death to people who were in a situation near the end of life. According to the Court, such standards create discrimination between individuals on the basis of their physical disabilities and prevent people suffering from a serious, but not terminal, incurable disease from being able to determine their death, while people in a similar situation, but whose death is closer to time, can legally access assisted drug death. With due respect for what has been written in the veto of Mr President of the Republic, the legal arrangements which are culturally and socially closest to us have adopted the solution that we now propose, and we have more procedural rigidity. In addition, the different solution, which sets aside the possibility of access to drug-assisted death to persons who, suffering from serious and incurable illness, are not in a situation near the physical end, may raise constitutional problems, in particular with regard to the principle of equality, as testified by the Supreme Court of Quebec. That is why this was also always the law of Luís Marques. Louis Marques was 63 years old, was paraplegic 55 years ago and traveled more than 2000 km to realize an assisted death denied in Portugal. He wrote to us because he wanted to die in Portugal, he wanted this law. We were late, but his name is here, he's always been, we always knew he was. That's why this was always the law of Louisa, the woman who asked me to visit her at the hospital. There she was, accompanied by her young daughter, wondering if the law would be passed in time to finally be able to choose at her own time. This has always been, in fact, the law of all people, because this has always been the law that dignifies people and is part of the tradition of the Socialist Party to contribute to a plural society, in which all, with its ethical, philosophical, religious and political conceptions, take place. This has always been the law of non-criminal persecution. This was always the law which forms part of the principle that it is the autonomous subject himself who desires euthanasia, the one who, having freedom to make vital decisions throughout life without the possibility of interference by the State, also has the freedom to have a legally recognized space of decision regarding his own death. This has always been the law that invites us to accept the other one. In doubt, tolerance. Here we are. [[P.S., BE, L and Members of the PSD and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u7	Madam Member, the Bureau does not record any requests for clarification. To submit Bill No. 5 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regulates the conditions under which the death of an assisted drug is not punishable and amends the Penal Code, now speaks to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the previous debate in this House on the decriminalization of drug-assisted death, José Manuel Pureza, on behalf of the Block, recalled the words of John Semedo : « The decriminalization of assisted death is the most humanitarian and democratic option that we can approve for the end of life: no one is obliged and no one is prevented, the only criterion is the choice of each. After all, isn't this democracy? Do not keep on seeking. ” We want to recall these words again today, when Parliament is called, for the third time in a few years, to speak on this matter. It's worth remembering how we got here. The Assembly of the Republic finally approved on 29 January 2021, and by a comfortable majority, the decriminalization of the drug-assisted death. Since then, the President of the Republic has twice understood that he is opposed to the enactment of the law. The first was imposed by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which considered it necessary to give greater determination to the concept of « definitive injury of extreme gravity », after having considered that there was no unconstitutionality of principle of decriminalization and had clearly stated that the right to life does not entail an obligation to live in any circumstance. The second decision not to be promulgated by the President of the Republic stemmed from his personal judgment of the need for refinement of the terminology of the law, in the wording which Parliament has approved, to meet the requirements of the Constitutional Court. Today's debate is therefore the result of this request for terminology refinement made by the President of the Republic. Since the veto occurred in the transition of legislatures, we have opted for legal certainty in a formally new legal process, but that is, in its substance and very simply, the answer to the presidential veto. This is a commitment that the Left Block has made as a priority in the last legislative elections, because the recognition of the rights of dignity to the end of life is always a priority and because this process has taken years and must now have its normal conclusion: the enactment and the entry into force of the law. Rare was the theme in the history of 48 years of our democracy that has been discussed and as long as this, the debate extended throughout society, particularly intense in the last decade, deep and demanding debate in the Assembly of the Republic, with five years of hearings and consultations, as it had to be. On this journey, our free and serene decision cannot be conditional on desperate campaigns of those who fear not to accept that the decriminalization of assisted drug death is the same will as the vast majority of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]] Those who, whenever there is an extension of freedoms, want to make Parliament a hostage to their fear insist that the law will not be fulfilled and that once it has been approved, the universe of cases will be ever more and more open. They said exactly the same thing when the decriminalization of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy was discussed. It's all fake as it's seen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u9	They're going to increase numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u10	The number of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy has been coming down sustainably and, indeed, we have known for days that, in 2021, had the greatest decline ever since the law was passed. Against the tremendism of the spokesmen of fear the objectivity of numbers and social serenity are worth. This turmoil has again been heard in recent days to try, for the last time, to condition Parliament and the other sovereign bodies. They now argue that the scope of the bills we are discussing here today is substantially different from that of the law previously approved, because it no longer focuses on terminality or fatal disease situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u11	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u12	With all serenity, the truth is answered. The scope of the bills, since then those of the Left Block, has never been confined to situations of fatality or terminality. In order to prove it, it is sufficient to take into account that, from the first hour, the situation of definitive injury of extreme gravity has been established, in parallel with the serious and incurable disease, as a condition to demand the anticipation of death. And the Constitutional Court accepted this consecration. In the absence of an argument on the content of the proposals, there remains the tremendous oppositionists to stir up ghosts about what is not in the proposals. Today, as yesterday, they present apocalyptic scenarios of sliding ramps.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u13	Look at Belgium!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u14	Look at the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u15	Today, as yesterday, we answered calmly: all the projects here under consideration consider, as they have to consider, any of these apocalyptic scenarios as an indisputable crime. End point! Parliament will adopt a weighted law, based on respect for the serious will of those who do not want to have an end to life involved in atrocious and unworthy suffering. The serenity and weighting of this legislative process guarantee that there will soon be a law in force in Portugal which decriminalises the death of assisted medicinal products. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the majority decision to decriminalise assisted death for a long time has been taken in Parliament, corresponding to the unequivocal will of the majority of society.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u16	Look at the galleries!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u17	What we are doing here today is just to answer the doubts raised by the President of the Republic on details of the drafting of the law. [[CH protests.]] With the same sense of responsibility that we wanted to have throughout this process, and in line with the other forces that have proposed in this regard, we have worked hard so that no doubts or reservations about the content of the law remain. Brave people, such as João Ribeiro Santos, Laura Ferreira dos Santos or João Semedo, have given us the determination to let the will of those who flee from an unworthy end of life to themselves be respected. from them we receive this challenge of extending the space of rights and tolerance in our country. Voting in favour of the projects that we are discussing here today is this legacy of tolerance and of democratic verticality that we will honor. And we will take another step in this long way so that dignity in death ceases to face taboos and be a right of all people. [[Congratulations on BE and L and on the members of the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u18	Madam Member, the Bureau does not record requests for clarification. I then give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, to present Bill No 83 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Charles Chaplin said one day that « We all want to help each other. Human beings are like that. We wish to live for the happiness of the neighbor, not for his misfortune. » But the issues of life and death are complex, even more so when it comes to someone who has the misfortune to find himself in a situation of serious and incurable illness, which causes him irreversible and intolerable suffering. In the face of such an accident, the law must be just. Justice must serve and defend those who suffer irremediably, who have no cure for their clinical condition and who, regardless of the opinion or beliefs of third parties, has the right to make decisions about their own life. The legislative process that we are debating today, in order to regulate the conditions under which assisted drug deaths can be admissible, was of the most discussed and substantiated processes we have had in this House. Civil society associations and entities on both sides of the debate were heard, discussed and rejected the referendum's solution; constitutional certainty was assured as to the solutions presented, through a Constitutional Court ruling that drew the way on how to ensure a decriminalization of drug-assisted death within the strict limits of the Constitution; and, above all, a broad strengthening of political consensus on this issue was ensured, which is a matter of fundamental rights. The Constitutional Court itself considered that the inviolability of human life enshrined in the Constitution does not constitute an insurmountable obstacle to decriminalizing, under certain conditions, the anticipation of the death of assisted medicine. For this reason, and believing that the unconstitutionalities presented there, with the density and uniformization of these concepts, were suppressed, we also believe that the model presented is safe, in a very thought-procedure, with opinions of various professionals and the guarantee of a systematic assessment of the patient's will at all times. Acquiring this legal framework of true empathy has been repeatedly postponed, which only prevents a dignified end-of-life response to whom it freely and informedly decided to appeal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, whether on behalf of our beliefs, our moral precepts or the discomfort that this matter causes us, we cannot close our eyes to those who are in this irreversible suffering — we do not deny that this matter is extremely complex — and prevent the express, free and informed will of a person who does not endure the situation of intolerable suffering in which he is suffering because of serious and incurable disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u20	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u21	I really am concluding, Mr President. We cannot continue to postpone this issue and that is why today, in order to put human dignity above all, what we want, despite our ideological differences, is that we take this step and approve this matter, which is being discussed in the Assembly of the Republic for the third time. [[Congratulations from the PS and BE and from the PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u22	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo now has the floor to present Bill No. 111 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic today is discussing several bills that regulate the decriminalization of drug-assisted death. It is the third time that the legitimate representatives of the Portuguese have the opportunity to defend their views on this very important matter and, at the same time, so sensitive, a matter which has been in broad and deep debate in Portuguese society for years. It would be strange, therefore, that this was an occasion when new arguments or considerations would be examined, but it is certainly a good opportunity to reaffirm a number of principles which are sometimes forgotten in the heat of the debate. For the Liberal Initiative, one of these principles is that the consecration of a right like that of assisted drug death is not — I repeat, it is not! — the same thing as defending your exercise. This is, in fact, the essence of the personal and universal nature of the rights that are established in favor of individual freedom. All are right holders, all are free to decide, in conscience, on their exercise and no one can be penalized or treated differently as a result of exercising that right or not. Any other interpretation would be to give the State the right to assess in a different way the free choices of persons. In other words, not to decriminalize moral choices is to accept that there is a collective moral that the State can impose. The Liberal Initiative rejects that it is legitimate. A second question which falls into the heat of the debate, so often manichist, on matters with the sensitivity and complexity of the assisted drug death is the following: only those who have not considered in depth all numerous, all difficult, all the painful contours of this matter can proclaim absolute certainty. Life, including the end of life, is incredibly different, incredibly complex, multifaceted and therefore hardly compatible with absolute certainty. The Liberal Initiative mistrusts those who have absolute assurances in this area and therefore has always maintained an open and constructive attitude in the discussion of this topic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the position of the Liberal Initiative on the decriminalization of assisted drug death is known and our mandate is clear, since this position is, from the outset, of our political programme, from the date of its foundation. It was therefore in consistency that we presented our own bill as soon as the first legislature in which we took a seat in this House and, with the same spirit, we actively participate in the work of expertise and final drafting of what came to be the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 199 / XIV. Without the committed contribution of the Liberal Initiative, matters as relevant as effective access to palliative care, the mechanism of objection of conscience of health professionals, the robustness of the process of reaffirming will and the non-exclusion of these deaths in the context of life insurance would not have been found or would not have been adequately clarified in the final version of the legislation discussed here at the end of the last legislation. The Liberal Initiative is now resubmitting its own project because it considers that there are still important improvements to be introduced in this law. This is the case with the listing of the specific powers of the verification and evaluation committee and also with the way in which the specialist physician is designated. We defend a mechanism with a random component that makes it more difficult for medical teams involved in an assisted drug death process to repeat. For all this, we will enable all the projects that are under discussion today, so that, in the field of specialty, as parliamentary good practice commands, they can still be improved. But today we are also discussing a draft law of the Arrival for the mandatory execution of a referendum on the decriminalization of the drug-assisted death. It is an attempt to do two unacceptable things: the first is to establish a precedent that fundamental rights and individual freedoms are referenceable. They're not, and they're never supposed to be! The second is to make us believe that direct democracy incorporates unattainable virtues for representative democracy, even when the positions that Members defend in this House include political programmes, electoral programmes, public declarations, even a short time ago — less than one year ago! — all parties with parliamentary seats have made their views clear on this issue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u24	The representatives of the people in this House therefore have all the legitimacy to deliberate on the death of assisted medicine and thus the Liberal Initiative will vote against this draft mandatory referendum law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u25	And it is also a good opportunity to stress that the reference route corresponds to an intrinsically populist view of democracy,... [[Congratulations from the IL, PS and PSD Members.]] ...which is contrary to the vision of liberal democracy, which the Liberal Initiative was born to defend. [[Congratulations from the IL, PS, BE and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u26	To intervene in the debate, presenting draft resolution No 62 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Conduct of a referendum on the decriminalization of assisted drug death, I give the floor to Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin the analysis of this debate with something I think it is important to mention. The generality of large and modern Western societies has a healthy obsession with life and freedom. It is very strange the obsession of this Parliament and the obsession of this left with death. We will always prefer obsession with life in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] in an extremely old country, where 70% of Portuguese have no access to palliative care, the concern of the left, the extreme left and liberals is no longer palliative care for Portuguese, it is not to protect our elderly, protect our most vulnerable population, it is to give them death directly, through the national health system, and that is what cannot be understood. [[Congrats from the CH.]] For the Socialists who accompany us, I quote Ramalho Eanes, that they will certainly remember well: « It is absurd to legislate about the death of assisted medicine and suicide in a country where the vast majority do not yet have access to palliative care and treatment. At least they had General Ramalho Eanes in mind to remember the good examples in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u29	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to point out that again the associations and entities which the law obliges to be heard have not been heard. All because the PS wanted to make an express law, in a hurry, fearing that the Left Block would overcome it on the left and, therefore, brought it to Parliament hastily and without hearing the entities that should be heard about the death of assisted medicine. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u30	Hurry up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u31	And let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party and Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members of the Government, which is not the case with legislation on life and fundamental issues, is not afraid of political competition, is looking at Portugal and the Portuguese, is looking at the true values that should guide us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u33	This is also a subject where we should look at what the Order of Physicians said yesterday: "Doctors save lives, they don't end their lives. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u35	And we should remind ourselves of that every day, when we here legislate about death and its anticipation. This is also a matter of conscience, and it is a matter of conscience that mobilizes civil society. That's why arriving is not afraid to hear the Portuguese. unlike others, we are not afraid to hear Portugal, unlike those who want to close here in Parliament, with a very curious fact, which today has to be pointed out: it is that the PS says that it is very confident in euthanasia, but for some reason omitted the euthanasia of its electoral programme to the legislative elections of 30 January. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's the truth! The truth is, they're afraid to hear the Portuguese, and I understand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PCP and the Block are afraid to hear the Portuguese. It didn't go well, the last time they did. But the PS, which had an absolute majority, to flee from listening to civil society and listening to the Portuguese, on a subject that each conscience concerns and that for all of us has a point of meaning, means one thing: this tremendous fear of hearing the people in matters where they know that the people wanted to be heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u37	But I could not stop doing this without referring to the famous liberals, who always want freedom for everything but to hear the Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I repeat, freedom for everything and for something else, less to hear the Portuguese. I quote, as I will probably not do in this House, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, on October 22, 2020 : « The Liberal Initiative will be in favour of a referendum on euthanasia to avoid legislative gaps. It is curious how friendship with the Socialist Party caused us to forget the gaps in this law, to say "go anyway and follow, that we are here for this." [[Congrats from the CH.]] But, Dear Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, «God sleeps, but never sleeps» and we will not forget that, at the most crucial moment of struggle for life, the Liberal Initiative was not next to those who defend life, it was next to the left and the extreme left in defense of death and its anticipation. We will not forget and the Portuguese people will not forget either. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u38	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want a referendum because we want to hear Portugal, we want to let you talk about it on such a sensitive subject, and we have good examples with us. So that the PSD doesn't forget, I'll come back here to tell them: Aníbal Cavaco Silva said it only made sense a referendum on this subject, but he could also quote Marques Mendes, former PSD leader, who said that « only a referendum on this matter makes sense», or Paul Rangel, who said that « only a referendum on this matter makes sense» or — they are scared! — Louis Montenegro, elected leader of the PSD a few days ago, who said that «it is a referendum on the euthanasia we need to resolve this matter ». [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u41	If the PSD doesn't vote with this, I don't know how the PSD will vote. It is that this Parliament may think it has legitimacy to understand, even parties that did not have it in its electoral programme. William Faulkner, a writer we all certainly know, said, one day, that in order to be free, it is not enough to claim to be free, we have to practice that freedom every day. by ignoring a referendum that would give a voice to the Portuguese people, this Parliament is saying that it does not want to hear it, is afraid to hear it and will not accept it, preferring to walk out of an awkward legislative state, until it solves these problems. Mr. President and Mr. Members, this diploma causes me particular concern and particular personal pain, but I will end with a phrase by John Paul II, which we should never forget. [[PS protests.]] A little respect for Pope John Paul II. [[PS laughter.]] This House thinks it's funny to quote John Paul II, but I will quote him so that they don't forget: "Nothing will ever be so incurable that it can't be careless. » Nothing will ever be so incurable that we cannot care for him or her and the concern of a people and a country should be to care for and not to kill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u43	Today, we heard John Paul II. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u44	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am before this House with two sentiments, responsibility and humility. Responsibility as PSD member, but with absolute freedom of conscience, opinion and vote, and also responsibility before all those who share my position and would like to be in this place today. All I'll do is not let them down. But I am also here with humility, the humility of those who read, studied, heard and reflected to form an opinion and make a decision, and humility in my doubts, to counter them to your successive certainties. With these proposals concerning the death of assisted medicinal products, the proposing parties identify a problem and move forward with the solution. But is death an assisted drug the only solution? Is that the last one? No more answers, no more solutions? Are we not forgetting the various other answers to those who have serious, incurable diseases and who cause great suffering? Not a minute to talk about palliative care, which fails abruptly in Portugal? It is surprising that 70% of patients with incurable serious illness die without being entitled to palliative care. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Do we not talk about medical advances in the treatment of pain, attenuation of suffering, the value of presence, solidarity, the immense power of love, friendship and sharing? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the themes of life and death are not minor themes, and I myself have experienced both very closely in recent years: I have seen my father leave and I have seen my son born. I really saw it! This does not enable me technically to claim special qualifications, but it certainly made me grow as a man and as a citizen and compared me with these issues in the first person. Of course, I do not accept this debate based on a confrontation between good and bad, pro-life and pro-death, believers and heretics or retrograde and avant-garde. We are on the purest plane of the political, philosophical, ethical, social and individual options and the criteria I have chosen to base my position are many or not this — and I think we are all in agreement — a matter of individual consciousness first and foremost. Do I have rational, technical and operational criteria? Yes, of course. First, to adapt the law to the limitations and criticisms made by the Constitutional Court and the President of the Republic, the option was lax. In the choice between « fatal disease », « incurable disease » and « serious disease », they became appropriate by opening the door further in such « radical or drastic » view as Mr. President of the Republic refers to. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] And the Left Block until it was allowed to remove the requirement of « fatal disease », but to maintain Article 1. which the diploma « regulates the anticipation of the death of assisted medicine », which was the old argument invoked to help justify this path. Beyond this attack and paradoxically, these diplomas are intended primarily for health professionals, doctors and nurses. It is these who are most frequently faced with extreme clinical frameworks, suffering patients who "are in the process of losing hope or may already have lost it", in the correct description of the opinion of the Advocates' Order. And these, such legal recipients, on such a complex subject and calling for judgments of an ethical, ethical, ethical and individual freedom, say 'no' to these proposals—just read the opinions of the Order of Physicians and the Order of Nurses. They do so very vehemently, feeling that this 'cooperation in the administration of lethal drugs is not a practice that fits in the exercise of medicine'. Are we going to force them? No, but there are those who foresee the requirement that they must specify the reasons behind the objection of conscience. What these projects are asking health professionals is so violent that it is planned and psychological support is made available to the doctor. Please note: the practice of the acts contained in these diplomas is a crime punishable in the Criminal Code and subject to disciplinary responsibility; these projects regulate the way doctors can have these practices and not be considered crime; and doctors say that they do not want to be excluded from the Criminal Code. But there is more: who meets all the requirements of the law, i.e. who is in « suffering, physical, psychological and spiritual, resulting from serious and incurable disease or definitive injury of extreme gravity», i.e. “a disease that threatens life, in a progressive, incurable and irreversible phase, which causes suffering of great intensity”, is carrying an evaluable mental state in a psychiatric expert examination? The Doctors' Order doesn't think so. But that does not even matter, because the intervention of a psychiatrist, or even a psychologist, is not mandatory at any stage of the process. In addition, if that doctor chosen by the patient to refuse assisted death, the patient is informed and the process can return immediately to the beginning, i.e. the patient can choose—yes, he chooses—another more adapted to the desired result. If I am sensitive to the argument that it argues that the suggestion of this solution pushes, suggests, suggests, legitimizes the patient and that the offer induces the demand? Yes, I am. I accept until the proponents invoke seriousness and compassion, but, quoting Carlos Costa Gomes, «Death by compassion is exactly the death of compassion». When we don't give an alternative and push one solution, can we say that the patient's will is free? The day when the solution we have for suffering and for sickness is death, we failed. We failed with whom we needed and failed as a society, losing a part of our humanity on the way. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] And the'standardization' of assisted death, which the experience of several countries confirms and is growing in numbers and motives, is outrageous to me? Yes, it is. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for bad solutions there are no good laws and the various failed attempts and all the successive amendments that have been made in vain are the same confirmation. But at the end of the day, at the end of the day, our individual position is first and foremost a matter of conscience. And, as I have heard since childhood, the head is an engineer made. How often does the head look for rational arguments that our heart, our soul, or, if they want, our conscience cries out to us? Oh, my God! And my conscience cries out « no», « nor do all, I do»! In consistency, if I claim the right to my individual conscience and decision, I cannot deny it to my fellow citizens and I will vote in favour of a referendum on the decriminalization of the drug-assisted death. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u46	The future will tell if I have been on the right side of history, but at least I am convinced that I am on the right side of the world that I would like to help build. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u47	For an intervention, Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to begin this intervention by thanking my party, the Social Democratic Party, for maintaining, in matters of conscience, its tradition of always respect for the individual positioning of each of its representatives,... [[PSD applause.]] ... for not measuring consciences, for there are no ethical values better than others, only different. This is the essence of a party that is called a personalist. And in this speech, I would like to congratulate all those who have a different or opposite view of me in this matter: respect - to the same extent as I disagree with you. That is the dignity of political debate: respect for different views, and fight for what we think is the best. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not in favour of euthanasia, but I am not against euthanasia either, just because I understand that I am not concerned with what everyone understands to do with their own lives. This is the structural assumption of my thinking. There is a phrase that we have heard and quoted many times and which is attributed to the English liberal philosopher Herbert Spencer : « The freedom of each one ends where the freedom of the other begins. This phrase says everything about what is discussed here. What is discussed here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not against or in favour of euthanasia, what we are discussing here is the extent to which the opinions we have about ourselves should guide what others should do. For example, I can be completely against euthanasia, in the sense that I do not want it to be applied in myself, and at the same time in favour of euthanasia in order to allow the neighbor, who has a different opinion than mine, to practice it in a safe and dignified way. [[PSD, PS and BE applause.]] I am therefore radically because of the principle of non-interference in the choices of others, just because I do not consider myself to be able to influence them. But I am also, of course, against which the State can decide how and under what conditions someone should die. I-I've always been against that. And, following the same line of reasoning, I cannot be in favour of the state deciding to keep us alive, even against our will. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this subject, have already raised a wide range of arguments. The constitutional consecration of the right to life has already been discussed and our Constitutional Court has answered unequivocally, saying that "the right to life cannot be transformed into a duty to live in any circumstance". The stoner! The inviolability of the right to life has already been discussed, which was answered with simple questions: but of whom is the right to life, after all? Who's your owner? Is it life, is it ours, of the collective that we together constitute, or is it belonging to him who lives it? Should the right to life be considered an individual right or a collective right? I refuse to give the answer, because I think I'm absolutely consensual among all of you. Humanism has also been discussed and the alleged inconsistency in being humanist while at the same time defending the death of assisted medicine. But how can one be humanist and prevent each human being from self-determination? What humanism is the one who wants to force the next what he doesn't want, but we want the collective? Is that a manifestation of personalism or, on the contrary, of collectiveism? Francisco Sá Carneiro knew well: "The human person defines himself for freedom. To be a man is to be free. To avoid freedom is to depersonalize; to suppress it - to dehumanize it. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is, therefore, a philosophical position, of attitude towards life, of erection of the decision-making autonomy of each one to the detriment of the opinionary intrusion of others over our life decisions. This is my position, in the light of the thought of the one so many quote but so few read. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I see and discuss this matter as an act of love, an act of understanding, an act of altruism, an act of lifting the will of the neighbor to our own will, an act of deep respect — to respect in this way the convictions of others we follow even if we disagree with them. This, yes, is being a democrat. This, I think, is being a humanist. I remember here Luís Miguel Marques, a 63-year-old Portuguese mathematician, paraplegic for 55 of these 63, who underwent the death of medicine assisted in Switzerland, even having had, what matters to the debate we are having, access to all palliative care. Luís Miguel Marques said: «We are in bed without pain it is not to exist. If there are people who want this for themselves, it is their right, not the context, but I want nothing of it and I want them to let me be entitled to my opinion. Do not keep on seeking. ” And I ask: what right do we have to want for Luís Marques what he himself doesn't want? What position do we assign to ourselves to think that we know, better than he, what is good for him? There will not be a certain condescending kindness here « you do not know well what is good for you, we do know»? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I know—of course I know! — that those who defend a position other than mine have, too, a humanist perspective, of protection of the neighbor, of amparo, of aid, and who are imbued with the most noble feelings to bear their position in them. But so am I! Me too! Bible teaching "loves the neighbor as yourself" does not imply loving him as we would like to be loved, implies loving him as he would love him. We do not force the suffering and the physical, emotional and moral degradation of the other if it is not even measurable for us. We trust in the wisdom, balance and instruction of those who want to ponder this end for themselves. We trust that no one at any time makes a decision of this kind in an uncompromising or even conditional manner. We trust, above all, the human being and its judgment. That's what it's like to be a humanist. We do not stir consciences, we do not value the principles of each one of us, we cease to divide ourselves between good and bad. This is only my testimony and, even though alone, always in obedience to my conscience. [[PS, IL, BE, L and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u49	The Bureau records the registration of Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos of the Socialist Party to request clarifications. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Coelho Lima, we know that the decriminalization of drug-assisted death in exceptional situations — that is what we are dealing with — is not really the defense of death. It is never to defend death and there is, in this, a culture of death. It is, yes, to allow the choice to be helped to die when that is the last option for the one who makes the request, at such a painful moment in which his life is transformed. It will be a conscious path, which reflects an informed choice, a free will, current and can be revoked at all times. Mr André Coelho Lima said that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic defines life as an inviolable right, but not an irrevocable duty, let us say so. However, we cannot and do not want to ignore the people for whom the diagnosis is irreversible, people who are in atrocious suffering, living in a meaningless life for themselves. This is not about instrumentalizing life; it is about allowing the self-definition of the concrete life of a person placed in an exceptional and untransmissible situation, whose meaning, in terms of personal existence, can only be defined by it. In the past Parliament, he said, and I quote, that this is « the cry for self-determination and respect for the self-determination of the other involves loving more closely than ourselves ». in this spirit, and knowing that there are many doubts in the PSD, I would like to ask whether the PSD is available to, as a specialist, dispel these doubts and collaborate, contributing to a process that is as inclusive as possible, as we wish. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u51	To reply, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u52	Mr President, Mrs Antónia de Almeida Santos, I begin by thanking her - and I would like to say to her - that, as she is implicit in the question she has asked me -, despite the question which has been addressed to me, I must take the necessary care and respect by my bench to speak for her as a whole. This bench has the position of each individual who composes it and, therefore, I will not repeat a position which is mine and which I have manifested in my intervention. [[PSD applause.]] However, as this was the question, I just want to say that, of course, the PSD, which even in this difference of views of Portuguese society is representative, will participate in the process in the specialty — as responsible party that is and has always been — if the diplomas are approved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u53	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the third consecutive legislature in which legislative initiatives on the provocation of early death are discussed in this House. We are therefore not at the starting point. In the past Parliament, several initiatives were approved. There was a veto resulting from a declaration of unconstitutionality by the Constitutional Court, there was an expulsion of the veto, there was a political veto by the President of the Republic, but there was no time for the approval of new text by the proponents. This is where the debate is resumed, in substantive terms, since formally, and only formally, everything returns to the zero stake. It is not surprising, therefore, that the initiatives under discussion are practically coincidental, so it is also coincidental that we make an assessment of them. Our position has not been taken lightly and is not based on manicism or ideas made. It is an option that results in a profound reflection on a topic that, due to its complexity, to the concerns it raises and the importance of the values concerned, dispenses any attitude of intellectual arrogance or invocation of moral superiority. The CFP has always refused to view this debate as a war of trenches, of religions against atheisms, of left-wing people against right-wing people, of enlightened against obscurantists. The PCP is a secular and left party, based on its positions in a reflection where neither dogmas nor anathemas fit. What is at issue is a legislative option, a State option and not a judgment on individual consciences. We are not deciding each one's individual option about the end of his life, but about the state's attitude towards the final phase of his citizens' lives and the goal for which society should mobilize his resources, his science, his technological progress. Finally, individual autonomy is something that must be respected, but an organized society is not a mere sum of individual autonomys. A legislative option cannot be taken on the life and death of people without taking into account the circumstances and social consequences of this option. This is not a debate between those who value the dignity of human life and those who devalue it. The dignity of each human being must be recognized, regardless of the position of each one before his own death. If the question of euthanasia is dealt with strictly on an individual level, there is no need to respect the position of those who claim to have the right to put an end to a limited situation. None of us fear dying, because we all know that we will die one day, but we all fear the suffering that can precede death. It's human and understandable that it is. There is no discussion of individual dignity, which is discussed is the sense in which society should organize itself and how its resources should be mobilized in the face of disease and suffering. We continue to consider that the sense of progress of human societies is to deduce disease and suffering, mobilizing its resources, scientific knowledge and technology, ensuring that all human beings benefit from these advances. It is in this sense of progress that the State should commit itself rather than create conditions to anticipate death. The Portuguese State cannot continue to deny to many of its citizens the health care they need, particularly in times of greatest suffering. The creation of a network of palliative care with universal character must be an absolute priority. No one understands euthanasia as a substitute for palliative care and for the PCP there is an unmistakable issue: a country should not create legal instruments to anticipate death and help die when it does not guarantee material conditions to help live.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u56	In this legislative process, we are concerned about the social consequences that may arise from it, especially considering the more fragile social layers, the more elderly, the more poor, those who have more difficulties in access to health care, those who will most clearly appear the option for the anticipation of death. The evolution of science and technology has allowed advances in medicine that were unthinkable a few years ago. This evolution is inexorable and increasingly rapid, the question is in the available resources being put at the service of the entire community, through good medical practices that reject the use of therapeutic obstination and respect the autonomy of individual will, expressed through the anticipated manifestations of will that the law already allows. The duty of the State is to ensure that inevitable death is always assisted, but not anticipated. in a framework where the value of human life often arises relativized according to criteria of social utility, economic interests, family responsibilities and charges or public expenditure, the legalization of euthanasia will add new risks that we cannot avoid. The CFP will thus keep the vote against the legislative initiatives under discussion. What is different is whether this matter should be referred to the referendum. This proposal is also not unpublished and we have already spoken about it in a negative sense. First of all, because we consider it to be unequivocal that the matter concerns fundamental rights, whatever the point of view that is being addressed. Whether by the angle of the limits of the right to life, or by the angle of the limits to individual autonomy, it is fundamental rights that we are talking about. For the CFP, legislative options on fundamental rights should not be subject to contingencies, manichaeism and simplification which always contaminate a reference consultation. This has always been the position of the PCP in relation to the referendum and no one can point to inconsistencies or variation of positions, depending on the referendum may or may not be interested. Secondly, but not least, this House has all the legitimacy to decide and this legitimacy must be respected. The question is difficult — it is undoubtedly — but the Members were not elected to decide only on easy issues, making voters turn the answer to difficult questions. The exercise of the parliamentary mandate on behalf of the people is the exercise of a responsibility which should not be removed at a time when difficult decisions have to be taken and there is no reason why this House should diminish its legitimacy in taking decisions on this matter. The opposition of the CFP to all these initiatives is well known and was clearly expressed in the discussions already held. The CFP will therefore keep the vote against all these initiatives, the same vote it expressed in the previous legislatures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u57	For an intervention, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to remind Members and Members who have participated in previous legislatures that this issue has already a long history in this House. For years, the extensive and multiple debates here have been able to gather a wide range of national and international data and a wide range of opinions from the most diverse groups of citizens. The poll was exhaustive. It is time for us to complete this process. I repeat: it is time to complete this process! My involvement in this topic began more than 40 years ago when the HIV pandemic (humanimmunodeficiency virus) in San Francisco and New York destroyed the lives of family members, colleagues and friends. in this first decade, death was almost certain and devastating suffering, often with abandoned patients, given the stigma associated with the epidemic. Recently arrived at the University of Porto, in the early 1990s, it was this unforgettable experience that encouraged me, along with the healthy Prof. Nuno Grande, to open the theme to students and professionals in the different areas of health, that work that contributed to the writing of the Vital Testament. Today, I am convinced that it is always the personal experiences that force us to remember stories, hear and reflect on the life we choose and the death we want. And I am immensely grateful to those who have shared with me the terrible experiences that have lived and those that have accompanied them. The vast literature on the subject helps us to realize that, in democracy, the way we deal with these challenges is almost always inspiring. Many realize that the additional years of life that medicine provides are not always accompanied by the promised and desired quality and have the clear awareness that the loss of autonomy, self-esteem and dignity, as well as the physical and psychological suffering they feel, will be accentuated in the life that remains. Many construct heroic narratives, which use to justify what they think about this matter. If for some the obvious answer is palliative care, for others it is the possibility of rapidly ending this suffering. Some criticize therapeutic obstination, others, the prepotence of autonomy. Some invoke traditions, others relativize suffering. Dialogue is often between the deaf and illustrates what defines democracy, namely that the priority of the values that govern us is not always the same, but the choices of each one, in order to be different, must be possible. I repeat: choices, in order to be different, have to be possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who defend palliative care are rightly concerned that, in situations of great fragility and low self-confidence, it is relatively easy to convince the person that it is not even worth doing anything else. However, the same argument can be used if we want to convince her exactly the opposite. The additional argument that assisted death saves money to the state is as unfair as that palliative care is a huge source of revenue for professionals and health institutions. For many, where I am included, this additional amount of life does not always compensate for the quality of life lost and suspected that, the richer this quality, the less value it will give to the promised additional weeks or months of life. Currently, in Portugal, the assistance of another person to the death of someone who has repeatedly asked for it continues to be a crime, and this is the crucial issue. There will be few who do not know or do not suspect numerous cases of help to patients who, near the end, want to accelerate their own death and implore for the compassion of health professionals— always hidden outside the law, with enormous risks of complaint and with grave professional consequences. Would it not be much more honest and coherent to end this situation? There are many highly respected citizens in all areas of knowledge that agree and publicly affirm it. Does anyone doubt their professional and ethical integrity? Democracy gives us the right to choose how we want to live and the duty to respect the rights of others. Being able to choose the way we want to die seems obvious. We are born out of will, that at least our life and death be out of will. [[P.S., BE, L and Mr. IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u59	The Bureau records the registration of Mr André Ventura of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, to make requests for clarification, available for two minutes for this purpose. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u60	Mr President, very telegraphically, I ask Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, who spoke in free and clear decisions, if he does not find it absurd that in the Socialist Party's proposal there is no clear requirement, throughout the process, of a psychologist or a psychiatrist to follow the patient's situation. It's absurd that this remains. But I would like to ask you something more specific, Mr President. According to the Socialist Party project, if the expert doctor's opinion is rejected, i.e. if he says no, the patient cannot continue for euthanasia, the process can be reopened. So we're going to have a kind of contest, until there's a doctor saying yes. Do you think this is reasonable? Oh, my God! There's a doctor who says: "No. This man is disturbed, cannot be applied to him... » [[Protests of PS Members.]] Sorry, but that's what's in your project! So, legally, how does this justify this? The doctor says no and the process continues to be reopened! Finally, I ask you: is the withdrawal of the requirement for fatal disease not entirely contrary to the requirements of the President of the Republic and the decision of the Constitutional Court, which required a causal link between the situation and the application of the drug-assisted death? It is that, by the end of fatal illness, there is no longer a situation that potentially leads to the anticipation of death and, therefore, I would say that only the Constitutional Court can clarify this. The President of the Republic thus has this path to send the diploma back to the Constitutional Court. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u61	To reply, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u62	Mr President, Mr Ventura, I thank you for the questions you have asked. Obviously, we realize that all these bills will be discussed in the field of specialty and, therefore, a number of changes can be introduced. However, there is a possibility to ask for the opinion of a psychiatrist or a psychologist. There is this possibility, perfectly.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u63	But it's not mandatory!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u64	It is not mandatory, but it can happen if you understand that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u65	Yeah, but if you don't understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u66	On the other hand, the person cannot be prevented from continuing to ask for access to assisted death only because there has been a failed process.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u68	You may obviously want to continue to do so. With regard to what the President of the Republic has said, it is up to him to say how he understands the situation that is currently being proposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u69	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are those who consider that it is not for the policy to legislate on this subject, but that is not what history tells us. Euthanasia, good death, adequate death, healthy death is the same as eudemonia, proper life, good and healthy. Both are inextricably linked and are central to politics. The same philosophy that invented words like 'political' or 'democracy' said that philosophy is to learn how to die and gave us the responsibility to guarantee, as far as possible, the principles and conditions of dignity, autonomy and consciousness so that each and every one — both those who admit euthanasia and those who would never admit it — can decide in consciousness, dignity and autonomy. As a matter of fact, this process may be new, but in fact, it is very long. The Free House was not in this Parliament, but we have followed closely the work that has been done here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u71	I was, I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u72	Therefore, with four texts that are basically so similar - they are the same in their essence - we found that it did not make sense to add any more text. We'll work in the field of specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u73	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are now in this Chamber, but before, I personally attended this debate as an unelected citizen and that is why I tell you, to the Members on the left and right, to those who would admit euthanasia to you and to those who would never admit it, but admit it to others: thank you! Thank you and count on my vote. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u75	Mr Cloádia Bento of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The previous legislation was marked by two failed attempts to approve the decriminalization of drug-assisted death, which was the maximum exponent of the lead of the law by the Constitutional Court and the second veto of the President of the Republic. We must also not forget the negative opinions given by the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences and by various orders. The Assembly of the Republic debates the new draft laws on the legalization of euthanasia, which propose the decriminalization of drug death assisted in situations of intolerable suffering, with definitive injury of extreme gravity, or of serious and incurable disease when practiced or assisted by health professionals. Thus, the requirement for fatal disease and there is a replacement of « death anticipation» for « assisted drug death ». On the other hand, free and informed will will not be evaluated, as compulsory evaluation by a psychiatrist is not expected. This means that the proposals under discussion are not only corrections that want to meet the demands, but they present profound changes on their basis and leave to resolve the issues raised by the previous vetoes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u77	We are faced with a radical change in the conditions of the application of euthanasia and which allows it to be extended, with significant social consequences. Projects that allow people to choose to die are discussed without first ensuring the comfort and quality of life for all patients who want to live in a dignified way, with the greatest possible support to reduce their suffering and that of their family members, a suffering that is, indisputably, personal and untransmitted and therefore impossible to measure. The State cannot promote death by resigning itself from providing all health care in life. We find ourselves in a new legislation, with new legislative initiatives, and, as such, a new legislative process should be taken up, with all that it involves: without haste, with the weighting, reflection and responsibility required when it comes to matters of life and death. In such sensitive and fracturing matters in Portuguese society, whose discussion has not been requested by the Portuguese and whose legislative process has already been voted on twice and vetoed, there is no justification for running. It seems that such practice is urgently needed in our country when there are so many issues and problems that need to be resolved. In Portugal, numbers continue to elucidate the pre-development of health policies adjusted to the needs inherent in palliative care, a false priority for the government. When we talk about palliative care, we talk about what today is considered a human right of basic health care. The universal coverage of these care is far from being achieved in our country: 75% of the Portuguese population do not have access and it is estimated that 110 000 Portuguese people need this care.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u79	The recognition of palliative care aimed at the prevention and relief of suffering is a basic conquest of the right to life and its meaning. Many terminal patients do not access the health care they need and do not have home care support, living in a inhumanity with which we cannot conform. It is urgent to provide the country with a sufficient palliative care network, capable of responding to all people who need it, with professionalism and humanity. It is the government's responsibility to create humanizing policies that place the person at the heart of decisions. in the Netherlands and Belgium, there are reports of monstrosities known as the « sliding ramp » phenomenon. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u80	These examples allow us to draw a conclusion: however perfect the legislation produced, there will always be wrong abuses and interpretations. The current legislative process on euthanasia is being implemented. It is important that both the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court can safeguard the feelings of Portuguese society and the rigour and constitutionality of the proposal to be adopted. May our priority and our commitment be, above all, with life. [[PSD and CH applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unlike every time we go to this House, I do not intend to convince anyone to see the world by the same lens as I or to vote for diplomas as I do. For the PSD today is not a day of unanimity and the best way to express democracy on fracturing issues and conscience is to give freedom to diversity, which will reflect the vote that we will carry out. The diplomas on which we deal have in common a very specific addressee, offer security and provide for the taxable circumstances in which we can resort to the death of an assisted drug and not punishable. Without radicalism, about the people I do not want, nor can I deny this possibility, I know: that they are older citizens; that they do not face any judicial process of limiting their legal capacity; that their will is serious, free and clear; that they suffer with a definitive injury of extreme gravity or a serious and incurable disease, both irreversible and causing an atrocious physical, psychological and spiritual suffering; that they have been guaranteed access to palliative care; and that at any time they can revoke the request. Regarding the guarantees and circumstances of the illegal clinical procedure, the diplomas also provide for several stages of decision-making that pass through clinical and psychological medical assessment, several times evaluated and confirmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u83	It's not mandatory!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u84	But let it be clear to all that at no time the possibility of resorting to assisted drug death must mean less investment by the State in the palliative care network. The palliative care that exists in Portugal, which are insufficient, should be the priority and first option for all who suffer and it is absolutely unthinkable to admit, with the death of assisted medicine, to deresponsibility of the State of its social functions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the perfect notion of the importance of the subject we are discussing today, but I cannot help but complain to these patients the same as I do to myself: to be able to choose and decide on my own life. Of all those who today think about euthanasia, only the patient is really aware of what it is to endure his condition of intractable suffering. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] My conscience says that I must vote in favour of these diplomas, giving these citizens the opportunity to choose to live or die according to the dignity criteria that each one of them has built for his life. That's also why I oppose the referendum. If I feel unable to decide about the lives of others, because, at the height of my physical and psychic health, I will never be able to wear the shoes of those who suffer an unimaginable pain,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u86	... I also understand that it should not be the other citizens who have decided to do so. That is how, in absolute consistency, I know I am and this is no exception. Nevertheless, if the day comes when this Parliament will vote in favour of a referendum on this matter, I will do everything so that it will never be as much as the one it proposes. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] The question which the Party intends to present to the Portuguese is absolutely insidious and does not clarify anyone. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the rule of law that I stand for cannot dictate who lives and who dies, the model of society in which I believe and that I want to help build must guarantee all the care to whom I am in the end of life, but must not force to live to whom torment and pain will be the only expression of life that will be known until the day of their death. [[PSD, PS, BE and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u87	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the end of this debate and I remember that we will then have a number of votes. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Parliamentary Group Member of the PS Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u88	Mr President, Dear Members: This House is discussing a matter that is, indeed, at the heart of its competence and legitimacy, in a state of democratic law and in a representative democracy. The proposal for a referendum on the subject of assisted drug death is wrong, unacceptable and now unconstitutional. It is an unconstitutional proposal, because they do not refer to matters of fundamental rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u89	What about abortion? Oh, my God! The abortion wasn't a referendum?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u90	... as the Constitutional Court has often decided, and it is a wrong proposal, because it speaks of individual freedom, to guarantee the right of each one to decide freely, informed, with dignity, without paternalism or false moralisms on the right to his own life and death. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] To refer to the individual freedom of each is a contradiction in terms, an unacceptable form of dictatorship of the majority in which the moral, religious and political conceptions and the pre-conceptions of each one are imposed on others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] It removes the right of others to make a free decision about their own life and now criminally penalizes those who, because of their own physical limitations, cannot put an end to life, people who, by their own physical limitations, are more limited in their rights than each and every one of us, if not assisted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u92	Those who defend freedom do not impose their convictions and opinions on others. A referendum would be this: an imposition of one's consciousness on the conscience of others, and there are no better consciences or ethics than others. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u93	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u94	Democracy is not the dictatorship of the majority, it is even the opposite. in a representative democracy, as we are proud to be, it is up to the Assembly, the democratically elected and legitimate Members to take decisions on these issues, however difficult they may be, and it is to those responsibilities that this House will not escape. [[P.S., BE, and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u95	We had two referendums and now they say there can be no referendum!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u96	To speak, Mr Filipe Melo of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In euthanasia, asked by four parties on the left of this House, what you want is a death that is a drug executed. This is your emergency! I would say that you have a morbid obsession with Portuguese euthanasia. You are innocently violating the Constitution, which enshrines the dignity of the human person as inviolable and which says that there will be no death penalty in any case. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is euthanasia but a death penalty?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In your election program, the PS had nothing about euthanasia...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u101	... and what you came to do today is deeply illegitimate and antidemocratic. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The four parties on the left who presented these proposals are all obsessed with the death of the Portuguese, but we have always been and we will always be defenders of life. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD Member Protest Sofia Matos.]] These benches ignore the negative opinions of the Medical Orders, nurses, lawyers and even the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u102	They've ignored everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u103	They ignore everything, they only do not ignore the will of death and contempt for human life. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We discussed once again—for the third time! — the euthanasia that the Portuguese did not want or want, which, again, you ignore.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u105	They have ignored civil society, ignored the Constitutional Court and ignored even the President of the Republic. [[Protests from PS and PSD Members.]] They failed to achieve the first, failed to achieve the second, and instead of accepting the popular will, they tried again to bring death forward. We have an obligation to fight for the lives of the Portuguese, for the health conditions, but instead we are here discussing death. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] All parties on our left bring to this House more proposals to kill Portuguese, whether in the womb or in the disease. Have shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]] They don't count on us for that cause. We've always been and we'll always be in favour of life. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that I thought I'd bring a black tie to show mourning for your proposals, but I brought a colorful tie to celebrate life, which we celebrate every day. [[Congrats from the CH, with Members standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u106	Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the long term of 1987, in Amsterdam, in a health unit that treated patients with AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome), euthanasia of 12 people with AIDS was announced. Neither the doctors nor those 12 people knew that at the same time in the United States they approved Zidovudine — the AZT — a drug that turned AIDS into a chronic disease. There might have been hope for these 12 patients, but there wasn't. Euthanasia, which is always presented as a freedom of persons, ends up becoming a right of States to suggest death, at a time when we are unable to exercise that freedom or to enforce our will. How to exercise freedom if the choice is between not having access to health care or asking for an execution of death itself? The parties that defend euthanasia say it is extremely exceptional, but they propose it to all people with a definitive injury of extreme gravity or serious and incurable disease. So we have a huge list of diseases, from chronic neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's or Parkinson's, heart failure, kidney failure, respiratory disease, etc. As I have no time, I will end by saying, as the father of bioethics in Portugal said, Prof. Daniel Serra : « Death by compassion is the death of compassion. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the Portuguese want is to have more palliative care, what the Portuguese want is to have fewer waiting lines in consultations and surgeries, what the Portuguese want is to have a family doctor. You're afraid to hear the Portuguese. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u108	The Portuguese don't want euthanasia, they mean yes to life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u109	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u110	Mr President, I shall end with the words of Antonio Variations : « I will live/ until I know/ What I care about/ I want to live». [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u111	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know and recognize that the use of assisted drug death is a decision of awareness of each and every one. I dared to say that, in my conscience, in fact, none of us, however certain of their convictions, are absolutely certain of what I would do in a situation of unbearable suffering, of incurable disease, of definitive injury with extreme gravity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u113	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u114	None of us! That is why we need to be extremely humble in this debate and we must recognize that we are not discussing solutions for incurable diseases or definitive injuries. What we are discussing is just how we respect the intimate will of each and every one of us when confronted with this limited situation. And with the humility of knowing that we are not capable of this definitive answer about ourselves, if we were faced with a situation like this, we also have the humility to take this step, as John Semedo said, humanitarian and democratic to guarantee this right. We do so with great certainty, because we have had a long-standing debate in Parliament — and I am glad that we have done so — and because we have already had the Constitutional Court to decide on what has been done, after a long debate, and we have found solutions to respond to it. Mr President of the Republic thought it was good to raise new questions and here we are, beyond that veto, but without fail to answer these new questions. This work was profound and provocations or mistifications on the solutions of these legislative processes do not help anyone. The serenity of continuing this process and finally having a law, that, yes, is an extraordinary step that our country needs, a show of respect for those who are in a situation that, at the moment, none of us are able to know exactly what it is, but knows that it has to respect. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u115	You have the floor, for an intervention to close the debate, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presented at the beginning of the XV legislature a draft law for the decriminalization of assisted drug death, strictly regulating the conditions under which it may occur. It was a long work that had the participation of other benches, in a joint process that we valued and we want to underline. A joint work, with the permanent concern to do good and to legislate well, which places at the heart of the decision the citizen, the human being who suffers and who has the right to see the community collectively respect its will, in a close-up framework and ensuring a safe, accompanied and informed process. The involvement of society has always been—always! — a prerequisite for a solid law, but without underlining that each Member, exercising his or her mandate, must fully assume his or her role as a legislator on a complex subject, linked to the duty that we all have to respect for the Constitution, knowing that this matter falls within the framework of human rights, individual freedom and the right to a dignified life, which is not referenceable, as are not the most nuclear aspects of our fundamental law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u117	Except abortion! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u118	The proposal of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group aims to ensure a rigorous process, continuously accompanied by doctors and other specialists, with the concern to strengthen the possibility of the use of palliative care and to allow the older citizen, free and informed a choice in a paradigmatic framework of incurable disease, which compromises life and causes intolerable suffering, that is, of great intensity. This awareness of an older citizen enables the reversibility, at all times, in the various stages of the decision taken, joining in a solid and robust process the intervention of doctors and a committee of verification and plural evaluation, which, before, evaluates all aspects already identified and analyzed by specialists. Mr President, we are talking about a process in which the free and informed citizen, in the face of a scenario of irreversibility in the disease, according to experts, chooses, with dignity, the way he wants to live and also how he wishes to stop living, in a framework of intolerable suffering, which confronts us, which worries us and, as members of this community, cannot leave us indifferent. In the Republic, without prejudice to the convictions of each individual, in an area of individual freedom which I would like to stress, this choice also defines how together we want to respond to a concrete reality of inundable suffering. It defines how we want to look at the other, with tolerance and empathy, in community, in a framework in which he, in his convictions and in the concrete reality in which he lives, decides to anticipate his death. If we have the right to life — which we must protect — it is no less true that we must defend a life with dignity, which should not be confused with a duty to live and, less so, have on the basis of dogmas that we impose on the comfort of the assurances that generate immobility and do not respond to the concrete reality or the concrete suffering of others. It was with great humanity and care that this bill was generated. It is a bill that also responds to the interaction with other sovereign bodies, which we respect and which helped improve the conceptual density of the diploma, as well as strengthened the internal consistency of the final work presented by the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group and other parliamentary groups in this House. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the time to decide. This is the time for us to face reality, responding to those who, with great suffering, hope that the legislator will define a stable and secure framework, which will have access to a social scenario that deserves our attention. This is a unique moment in which we must take on — I say it again — outside the comfort of our assurances, a legislative response from our community and the Republic, so that citizens can choose that their right to life does not impose, as I said, a duty to live, not condemning others, some of our fellow citizens, to the penalty of extreme suffering that does not respect their dignity as a human being. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u119	We are thus at the end of our debate. I would ask the services which start the registration period for quorum verification. [[Pause.]] There are 213 registered Members. I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has had any difficulties in registering.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u120	Mr. President, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u121	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u122	Mr. President, I can't register either.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u123	Your presence is also recorded, Mrs. We therefore have a quorum of 215 Members, so we will start the voting period. The first discussion is on the Draft Vote No 85 / XV / 1. a (as presented by CH) — regretting the death of the Consonant João Seabra. At the request of the Parliamentary Group of the European Union, which does not oppose it, Mr Ventura has the floor for the reading of this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u124	Mr. President and Mr. Deputies, the draft vote is of the following content: « João Maria Félix da Costa Seabra, Catholic priest, an unmistakable personality of Portuguese society and the Catholic Church, died at the age of 72 on June 3, 2022. He was born in Lisbon on 14 September 1949. He was trained in law by the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon, having entered the Seminary of Olives in 1973. He made his Bachelor of theology at the Catholic University of Lisbon and the Bachelor of Canon Law at the University of Salamanca, he was also a Doctor of Canon Law at the Urban University. He was ordained a priest in 1978 by Cardinal D. António Ribeiro, who soon became a chaplain of the Catholic University of Lisbon, until 1988. He was a parish priest of the Church of Saints-o-O-O-O-Velho, from 1989 to 2002, and of the Church of Our Lady of Incarnation, from 2004 to 2018. In addition, he was founder and president of the Association for Education, Culture and Training, an association that founded the College of S. Tomás and is also responsible for the management of the College of S. José do Ramalhão. In 2019, he was decorated by Mr. President of the Portuguese Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, with the rank of Chief Officer of the Order of the Child D. Henrique. Considered one of the most emblematic priests in recent decades, he had a vast work left in several areas. He played a crucial role in the 1970s, in the post- Vatican Council II context and in the transitions that this would lead to the Portuguese church, in a spirit of openness to the world and to reality. He accompanied the movement of the teams of couples and young people of Our Lady, he was a national assistant to the Communion and Liberation movement in Portugal. John Seabra was a man who, throughout his life, knew how to put his eyes on love for truth, not being afraid to defend. It was often controversial because it was not politically correct. He was one of the greatest advocates of human rights, defending the dignity of human life, from conception to natural death, inspiring and supporting many movements and associations supporting life and family. He will always be remembered by his pastoral legacy, by the testimony of faith allied to reason and for having been for many, Catholics, practitioners of other creeds or unbelievers, testimony that ‘of love no one flees’. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of the Consonant John Seabra, conveying to his family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u125	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L and with abstentions of the CFP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u126	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u127	We move on to the next discussion on the Draft Vote No 89 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — regretting the death of Carlos Manuel Dias City. At the request of the proposing group and without opposition from any other, Mr. Pedro Coimbra of the PS has the floor to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « On May 29, Carlos Manuel Dias Cidade passed away. Born in Coimbra, on March 10, 1959, he graduated in law by the Higher Institute Bissaya Barreto, in Coimbra, with Postgraduate Degree in Law of Land Planning, Urbanism and Environment, by the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra, and practiced his professional activity in the Legal Department of Waters of the Coastal Center S.A. With a relevant union course at the beginning of his public life, it was at the City Hall of Coimbra that stood out most, and there he performed the duties of deputy and chief of the Cabinet of the President of the City Hall of Coimbra at the time, Manuel Machado. He was also a full-time councilman from 2013 to 2017, and vice president of the Authority from 2017 to 2021, being responsible for the furours of urban management, environment, green spaces and gardens, markets and sports. In the current term of office, he served as a councillor without assigned lawns, reconciling these functions with his professional activity. Always with the defence of the interests of the municipality of Coimbra in mind, he exercised, in his representation, the functions of President of the Strategic Council of the Natural Reserve of Paul de Arzila and the Environmental Committee for the Monitoring of the Mechanical-Biological Treatment Unit of Coimbra, in the two years 2016 / 2017, and also joined the Organizing Committee of the European University Games of Coimbra, in 2018. He was vice-president of the executive board and member of the General Assembly of the Academic Association of Coimbra / OAF to whom he also gave a great passion and dedication. Man of causes, dedicated, committed and hardworking, was a militant of the Socialist Party, where he performed relevant and important concel, district and national functions. The news of his death was received with deep sorrow by all, especially in his city of Coimbra. It was the Coimbra, its people, its institutions and its causes that devoted much of its life always with the great delivery that characterized it. Carlos Cidade left us unexpectedly and prematurely at the age of 63 and still with much to offer to the public cause. After a life dedicated to Coimbra as a jurist, autarch, party leader, trade unionist, associative leader, democrat and citizen leaves us a legacy of merit, whose memory will honour. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at its death and expresses to its family, represented here by its sister, its friends, many present here in the gallery, the city of Coimbra, as well as the Socialist Party, the most sorry for its disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I also greet the family and friends of Carlos Cidade here present, and I ask everyone to accompany me in a minute of silence, in memory of these two fellow citizens. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 76 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and Brasília. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote is followed by a request by the PSD for a discharge from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 53 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the central administrative court of the centre by amending the Statute of the Administrative and Fiscal Tribunals, as annexed to Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February 2002 to the tenth amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System, as approved by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August 2013 and to the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 325 / 2003 of 29 December defining the seat, organization and jurisdiction of the administrative and fiscal courts, implementing the Statute thereof. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for 60 days without a vote of Bill No 87 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Takes measures to optimize the performance of the higher courts of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction by amending the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 7 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Increases the value of the special pension supplement for former combatants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and the NAP and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 52 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the vital complement of pension and the minimum pension of dignity for former combatants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u130	This is our difference! We voted in favour...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u131	Mrs. Members, we continue with the general vote on Bill No 91 / XV / 1. a (BE) — establishes the vital complement of pension and the minimum pension of dignity to former combatants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u132	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u133	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u134	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u135	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Members, the general vote of Bill No 76 / XV / 1 is followed. a ( IL) — Express consecration of the crime of exposure of minor domestic violence (fifty-sixth amendment to the Criminal Code). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and PCP were rejected, votes against IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u136	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u137	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u138	Mr. President, it is to inform that in relation to draft Law No 76 / XV / 1. a, the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u139	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote of Bill No 82 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Making declarations for future memory mandatory at the request of the victim or the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 85 / XV / 1. a (L) — expressly includes exposure, in the examples of what constitute psychic ill-treatment, in the context of domestic violence crime, defines exposure, in the case of children and young people, as sufficient for their characterization as victims and enshrines the frequency of specific parental education programmes in the list of accessory penalties. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions against the CH and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u140	Mr President, with regard to this vote, the Arrival will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President, for being recorded. Mrs. Members, the general vote of Bill No 92 / XV / 1 is followed. a ( BE) — Creation of the crime of exposure of minor domestic violence (fifty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and PCP were rejected, votes against IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from CH.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 96 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Exemption from attempting to reconcile the divorce proceedings without the consent of the other spouse in cases of conviction for domestic violence crime ( amendment to the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code ). [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, CH, IL and BE, votes against the PSD and abstentions to the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] This project goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u142	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u143	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u144	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will send a statement of vote on this vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u145	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u146	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. we are going to make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Mrs. Members, we will vote on a request by the IL, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for a 60-day vote of Bill No 97 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Ensures the appointment of employers to particularly vulnerable victims ( amendment to the Statute of the Victim and Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July 2004 amending the system of access to law and courts). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Commission's request is low under the conditions described. We now vote in general on Bill No. 48 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary linkage of all teachers with three or more years of service up to 2023. [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]] The general vote of Bill No 81 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Amendment to the Statute of the Career of Children and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, approved by Decree-Law No 139 -A / 90 of 28 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PS, CH and IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 93 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Extraordinary programme for the linkage of teachers. [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]] Mrs. Members, we continue with the general vote on Bill No 71 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Change specific activities associated with compensation in family health units in order to eliminate gender discrimination in clinical practice. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the CH and abstention from the PSD.]] It therefore drops to 9. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 88 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — eliminates gender discrimination in the compensation criteria associated with the specific activities of doctors. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the CH and abstention from the PSD.]] Also down to 9. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 74 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PS ) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. First, I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] They vote against the CH, the PCP and PS and PS Members to whom I will ask for their identification. I'm starting to ask the ladies. PSD members who identify themselves, confirming their vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u148	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u149	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u150	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u151	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u152	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u153	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u154	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u155	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u156	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u157	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u158	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u159	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u160	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u161	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u162	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u163	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u164	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u165	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u166	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u167	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u168	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u169	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u170	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u171	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u172	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u173	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u174	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u175	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u176	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u177	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u178	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u179	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u180	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u181	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u182	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u183	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u184	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u185	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u186	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u187	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u188	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u189	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u190	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u191	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u192	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u193	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u194	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u195	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u196	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u197	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u198	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u199	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u200	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u201	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u202	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u203	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u204	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u205	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u206	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u207	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u208	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u209	Thank you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the PSD Parliamentary Group, I inform the House that Mr Duarte Pacheco and Mrs Emília Cerqueira — who is accompanying the video conference session — are also voting against. I'm asking the ladies now. PS members who identify themselves, indicating their sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u210	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u211	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u212	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u213	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u214	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u215	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u216	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u217	Therefore, they voted against the CH, the PCP, 63 PSD Members and 7 PS Deputies. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] There are a number of Mrs. PS Members to whom I now ask for their identification and confirmation of their vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u218	I abstain, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u219	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u220	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u221	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u222	Four PS Members were absent and Mrs Lina Lopes of the PSD. Finally, I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of PS, including the 5 Members attending the videoconferencing session, IL, BE, PAN, L and 6 PSD Members, whom I also ask to identify and confirm their sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u223	I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u224	I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u225	I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u226	I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u227	I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u228	I vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u229	Thus, with regard to Bill No. 74 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), the Bureau recorded the votes in favour of 106 PS Members, 8 IL Members, 5 BE Members, 1 PAN Member, 1 L Member and 6 PS Deputies, 12 CH Deputies, 6 PCP Members, 7 PS Deputies and 63 PS Deputies and 4 PS Deputies and 1 PS Deputies. The bill was approved, with 128 votes in favour, 88 against and 5 abstentions, and reduced to 1. the Commission. [[P.S. and ……]] The Bureau was informed that statements of vote on this last vote will be made by Mr Firmino Marques and Mrs Lina Lopes. We now move on, using the same methodology, to the general vote of Bill No. 5 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. First, I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] They vote against the CH, the PCP and the same 63 PSD and 7 PS Members, so there is no need to repeat their identification. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] in this case, there is a difference with regard to the vote of the previous bill, I ask Mr. Members who abstain from identifying themselves and confirming their vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u230	I abstain, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u231	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u232	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u233	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u234	Mr President, in this bill, my vote is abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u235	I now ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of PS, IL, BE, PAN, L and 5 PSD Members. In relation to Bill 5 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), the Bureau recorded the votes in favour of 106 PS Members, 8 IL Members, 5 BE Members, 1 PAN Member, 1 L Member and 5 PS Deputies, 12 CH Deputies, 6 PCP Members, 7 PS Deputies and 63 PS Deputies and 4 PS Deputies and 2 PS Deputies. Thus, the bill was approved, with 127 votes in favour, 88 against and 6 abstentions, and lower to 1. the Commission. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 83 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. First, I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] Once again, they vote against the CH, the PCP and the 63 PSP and 7 PS Members, so there is no need to repeat their identification. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] The Bureau found a difference in the vote of the previous bill. I therefore ask the honourable Members. Members who abstain from identifying themselves and confirming their vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u236	I abstain, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u237	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u238	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u239	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u240	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u241	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u242	I now ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of PS, including the Members who are attending remotely, IL, BE, PAN, L and 5 PSD Members. in this case, the Bureau recorded, as regards draft Law No 83 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), the votes in favour of 105 PS Members, 8 IL Members, 5 BE Members, 1 PAN Member, 1 L Member and 5 PS Deputies, 12 CH Members, 6 PCP Members, 7 PS Members and 63 PS Deputies and 5 PS and 2 PS Deputies abstentions. Thus, the bill was approved, with 126 votes in favour, 88 against and 7 abstentions, and lower to 1. the Commission. [[Congratulations from the PAN, BE and PS Members.]] The vote was followed, generally speaking, Bill No. 111 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. First, I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] The Bureau also notes that they vote against the CH, the PCP and the 63 PSD and 7 PS Members, so there is no need to repeat their identification. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] The Bureau found a difference in the vote on the previous bill, so I ask the honourable Members. Members who abstain from identifying themselves and confirming their vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u243	I abstain, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u244	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u245	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u246	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u247	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u248	I now ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of PS, IL, BE, PAN, L and 5 PSD Members. In relation to Bill No 111 / XV / 1. a ( IL) the Bureau recorded the votes in favour of 126 PS Members, 8 IL Members, 5 BE Members, 1 PAN Member, 1 L Member and 5 PS Deputies, 12 CH Members, 6 PCP Members, 7 PS Deputies and 63 PS Deputies and 4 PS Deputies and 2 PS Deputies. Therefore, this bill was approved, with 127 votes in favour, 88 against and 6 abstentions, also lowering to 1. the Commission. [[Congratulations from the IL, BE and PSD Members.]] Mr António Proa asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u249	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a written statement of vote on the last four draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u250	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Firmino Marques also asks for the floor. Is it for the same purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u251	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote, extending to the vote of the last four draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u252	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Hugo Patrício Oliveira asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u253	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will also make a statement of vote on the last four draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u254	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Alexandre Poço asks for the same floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u255	Yes, Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will do the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u256	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Barbosa de Melo also asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u257	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u258	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Fatima Ramos asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u259	Mr President, I will also make a statement of vote on these last four draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u260	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Does Mrs Paula Cardoso also ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u261	Yes, Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u262	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Francisco Pimentel asks for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u263	Yes, Mr President, I will also make a statement of vote on the last four draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u264	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 62 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Conduct of a referendum on the decriminalization of assisted drug death. I first ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] They vote against the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN, the L and 9 PSD Members, to whom I ask to identify them confirm their sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u265	I vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u266	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u267	I also vote against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u268	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u269	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u270	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u271	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u272	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u273	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u274	Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] Two PSD Members are absent, to whom I ask again to identify themselves and confirm their sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u275	My vote is abstention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u276	I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u277	I now ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] We vote in favour of the PSD and the CH. Thus, the Resolution Project No 62 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) was rejected with votes against PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN, L, and 9 PSD Members, votes against PSD and CH, and abstentions by 2 PSD Members. Since the Bureau has found that several Members want to ask for the floor to announce the delivery of explanations of vote, I now give the floor to that effect. Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u278	Mr President, I will make a written statement of vote on the last five votes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u279	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u280	Mr President, I would also like to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on the last five votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u281	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Hugo Carvalho also asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u282	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u283	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u284	Mr President, I will also present a statement of vote on the last five votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u285	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor. I wonder if it's for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u286	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u287	All right, Mrs. Deputy. And is Mr Hugo Oliveira for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u288	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u289	Mr President, I would also like to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u290	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u291	Mr President, I will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u292	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes is asking for the floor. It must be for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u293	Yes, Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u294	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u295	Mr President, I would also like to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u296	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Firmino Marques asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u297	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u298	It is also registered, Mr. Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u299	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u300	It is also registered, Mr. Mrs Lina Lopes asked for the floor. Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u301	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u302	You are registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u303	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I will also present a statement of vote on the last five votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u304	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 49 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government contribute to deepening European democracy and strengthening the European project through the debate of proposals for improving the institutional architecture of the European Union and to ensuring our energy independence from external actors. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the CH, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PAN and the L and abstentions against the PS, the PSD and the IL.]] Mrs Paula Santos is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u305	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u306	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 22 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Not another euro of the European Union for the war in Putin. It recommends that the Government in the European Council advocate the adoption of a mechanism for the retention of fossil fuel payments to the Russian Federation and, through the establishment of a trust account in a third State, for the establishment of a reconstruction fund in Ukraine for war reparations. There is a request from the PSD for this vote to be made by points, so we start by voting paragraph 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and the abstention of the CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraph 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the NAP and the L and abstentions against the CH, IL and BE.]] We now vote on paragraph 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against IL, the NAP and the L and abstentions against CH and BE.]] We shall vote for paragraph 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against IL, BE, NAP and L and abstentions against PS and CH.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 71 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Suspension of the release of bulls throughout the national territory. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PCP were rejected and votes against BE, PAN and L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 32 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Programme More Sustainable neighbourhoods aimed at interventions that promote greater efficiency in energy use. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Court of Ponta Delgada, Organic Unit — Case No 142 / 08.4BEPDL, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the Member of the PS João Azevedo Castro to present his testimony as a witness within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u308	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the following opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Judge of Criminal Instruction of the Barreiro, Inquiry No 468 / 20.9T9MTJ, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided not to authorize the removal of the parliamentary immunity of the Member of BE Mariana Mortágua within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u310	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L, votes against CH and abstention from IL.]] Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u311	Mr President, he wishes to make an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u312	Mr President, it is registered and you can do so at the end of the vote. We moved on to the reading of the last opinion. Please, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Central Court of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — TICC — Judge 6, Case No 3633 / 21.8T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the Member of the PS Nuno Fazenda to make written statements, as a witness and as an offence, within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u314	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Having concluded the votes, Mr André Ventura has the floor for an oral vote on the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members not to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of the Member of BE Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Party of the European Union wishes to make the following clear here: the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members voted for the failure to lift the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in one of the cases under investigation, which had been requested by the Court of Justice. We understand that this vote, whether for the honourable Member to be and in what circumstances it is, constitutes a serious violation of the separation of powers which is enshrined in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u316	Don't you ever shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u317	But we also believe that the precedent which we have opened here, and which was mentioned yesterday by several national personalities in the Portuguese public space, is a precedent with some gravity: Parliament will reserve-CL, from now on, if it replaces the court and the Public Ministry in the analysis of the strong signs that arrive at this House. This precedent, which had no parallel in any act in the previous legislature, was opened by this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u318	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u319	So, despite the vote in this House, we did not want to stop making two repairs. First, from now on, the Transparency Commission must always act in the same manner and within the scope which it has created as a precedent, that is, from now on, the Commission should make a selective analysis of the reasons why the Public Prosecutor or the judicial tribunal asks this House to lift parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u320	There you go! He always did!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u321	Secondly, we learned that the sites of the parties are now places where you can write everything, without anyone being held responsible for what is written there, and this is not only serious, it is very, very serious,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u322	All right! [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u323	... because it means that criminal action has been seriously challenged and means that we are telling the Public Prosecutor that he was a discretionary and that he wanted to prosecute a Member or two Members politically.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u324	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u325	A legitimately elected Parliament says this about the judicial authority which in Portugal is responsible for criminal investigation seems to us to be of some gravity and, therefore, we want to make this note here, which we will also be aware of to the other official entities and authorities. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u326	I hope that you will not hurt me, but I have benefited you unduly. However, I was informed that the explanations of vote apply only to the legislative process. I'm asking the House to make up for this lack of me. In the meantime, Mrs Alexandra Leitão pointed out to the Bureau that she intended to intervene. I ask the honourable Member what effect she wishes to use the word. If it comes to an inquiry at the Bureau to criticize me, self-criticism is already in place.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u327	Mr President, it is for an inquiry on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u328	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to clarify to the House that what happened in this case was totally different from what has now been mentioned. Firstly, the institution of parliamentary immunity serves exactly — and therefore the courts have to ask this House to lift immunity — to be used, to be granted and not to be understood when the House so understands. If there were no such possibility of granting and not granting, that would, yes, constitute a violation of the separation of powers. Therefore, if the institute exists, it is to be granted in cases and not to be granted in others. I am now taking advantage of explaining that it is not granted when, in the case of a crime less than three years, there is no strong evidence. I wanted everyone here to know what's at stake. What is at issue here is a completely different circumstance from all the others we have voted on this year and in other legislatures. What is at stake here is not a situation in which it is known that the act was practiced by a certain person and whether or not that act is a criminal type — that is something. Another thing is to know that that act was not practiced by that person — that is required in the request and, therefore, it is admitted that it was not that person who practiced it — but because, at another time, that person signed a certain act in a different action, it is arbitrarily asked to lift the parliamentary immunity of that person.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u330	Arbitrarily? The Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u331	It is arbitrarily that person as could be asked of any other party. Therefore, it is up to this House to use its powers on one side and on the other, to grant the authorization of the lifting of immunity when it is the case and not to grant it when it is the case too. And this House won't give up. As long as you are Chairman of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, we will not abdicate the use of the powers that are constitutionally and legally conferred on us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u332	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u333	I ask Mr Ventura what effect do you want to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u334	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau, exactly as the honourable Member did. [[Protests of PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u335	Mr President, allow me to make a request. As I said a little while ago, but wrongly, I gave the Parliamentary Group a power that the Rules of Procedure do not give it: the power to make a statement of vote on a matter which does not fall within the legislative procedure. The honourable Member has made the statement that you have understood and we all understand your point. The President of 14. In my view, the Commission has taken the floor to clarify the merits of the decision and what was at issue in that decision. I believe that we are all sufficiently informed to each one of us to have his opinion. Mr President, do you still use the floor? Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u336	Mr President, it is only to tell you that it does not seem to me that the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is correct,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u337	"It doesn't seem like it" is not good for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u338	... in that any vote in this House may be entitled to a declaration of vote, as I have done, but we give it cheaply. The honourable Member has made an intervention which does not fall within the scope of what is an appeal to the Bureau. [[PS protests.]] That is why I understand what Mr President has said and, in his interpretation, has been unduly benefited, I will not do any other intervention, only registering the word 'arbitrary' addressed to the Public Prosecutor in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u339	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u340	I think it is very serious that this happens in Portuguese democracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u341	We have thus concluded our work at today's session. The next session will take place on Wednesday, 15 June, and on the agenda are political statements... [[In the meantime, several Members began to leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u342	Lack of respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u343	So I'm gonna take a little longer to finish our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u344	Mr. President, I would like to take the floor, just to say that this is a lack of respect...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-09.u345	Mr. Deputies, I am now speaking. The honourable Member is waiting quietly, please. [[Pause.]] I refuse to speak with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I refuse to close the session without fulfilling my statutory obligations, which include reading the next agenda for the sitting. To those who are not interested in listening—because you know, because you always know, because you don't want to know—the doors are open, they both give in and out. Those who are here do well to have the least respect and so this takes much less time. [[Pause.]] I was therefore saying that the next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 15 June, on the agenda of the following items: political statements, at the first point; at the second point, the debate of Petition No 199 / XIV / 2. a ( Sylvia Marlene Carneiro da Silva et al.) — Internal mobility contest, together with Law Projects Nos 73 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensure the inclusion of all schedules in the internal mobility procedure of the internal competition of teachers and 106 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Assign cost aid to basic and secondary teachers who are generally displaced and with the Resolution Project No 80 / XV / 1. a (BE) — By reviewing the recruitment and mobility scheme of basic and secondary teaching staff. In the third, and last point, Petition No 612 / XIII / 4 will be appreciated. a (Margarida Quintela et al.) — Against the end of the current Yellow Line of the metro of Lisbon, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 69 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Immediate suspension of works of the metro line of Lisbon, 52 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with Article 282. the State Budget Act 2020 and suspends the construction process of the circular line of the metro of Lisbon and 84 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government revise the draft circular line of the Lisbon metro rejected by Parliament and evolution to the link line. And now, yes, I can wish everyone a good holiday. Lives on 10 June, Portugal, Trucks and the Communities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 54 minutes.]]
