ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I declare the sitting open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. There is no record for reading, we turn to the agenda, which consists of the presentation and debate of the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme. I welcome Mr Prime Minister and other members of the XXIII Constitutional Government and, for the presentation of the Government's Programme, I give the floor to Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u2	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the Government : On the first occasion when I address Parliament in this Parliament, I naturally greet all of you and all of you. Members and everyone alike wish a good mandate, for the sake of Portugal. I also greet the new President of the Assembly of the Republic, Prof. Augusto Santos Silva, and I am sure that under his presidency we will have a participating, open and plural legislation. This House, which is by definition an area of negotiation and commitment, requires a culture of dialogue and respect that enhances and enhances the quality of the democratic debate. The commitment of the XXIII Constitutional Government is clear and unbreakable: to honour the principle of separation and interdependence of powers. Parliament will have, and will have, our full availability for dialogue and our respect for the free, plural and democratic scrutiny of government activity. This government's action will be marked by institutional loyalty and democratic humility. We are sure that this was exactly the will of Portuguese and Portuguese: to have a majority, a majority that guarantees stability and a majority that promotes dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we were all surprised by a war in Europe, with devastating humanitarian consequences, disastrous economically and with a potential to destroy social cohesion. The indisputable procession of horrors that we have come to witness, with thousands of dead and displaced, with massive destruction of cities and infrastructure, is the most dramatic face of this tragedy. But the consequences have a global impact, threatening Africa's hunger or hindering Europe's economic recovery, in particular by exacerbating the brutal increase in energy costs and the disruption of supply chains that the pandemic has already triggered. We know that it is imperative to act to protect our families and our companies from the effects of inflation. This inflation has an external origin, a tendencyally conjunctural nature and known causes. Therefore, only a focused response can effectively achieve the objective, avoiding the risk of the spread of inflationary pressures. Tomorrow, if the Government is to enter full office, we will approve a new package of measures aimed at curbing the price increases of energy and agri-food goods, which, of course, joins the measures we have been taking since October. This package of measures is based on four fundamental axes. The first axis is the containment of energy prices. For fuels, and until we receive a response to our request by the European Commission, we will now move forward with a reduction in the tax on oil and energy products ( ISP ) equivalent to the reduction of VAT ( value added tax) to 13 %, we will maintain the mechanisms to compensate for tax revenue increases and extend the suspension of the increase in carbon by 31 December. at today's prices, these measures result in a 52 % reduction in the increase in the price of diesel and 74 % reduction in the price of gasoline that we have recorded since October last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards electricity, we presented, as it is public, a proposal to the European Commission last week, which seeks to limit the price of electricity by increasing the price of gas. This proposal can result in savings for families and businesses in the order of EUR 690 million per month, supported directly and exclusively by the electricity sector. The second axis of action is production support. By way of State aid, we will support some of the increases in gas costs of energy intensive companies, reduce the costs of electrointensive companies, and make tax payments and social security contributions to the most vulnerable sectors more flexible: agriculture and fisheries, transport and sectors such as textiles, the manufacture of paper pulp, the ceramic and glass industry, steel, cement production, the chemical industry. In addition, we will now create professional gas for the supply of goods and extend the discount of 60 cents per litre on fuels to the social sector. For the agriculture and fisheries sectors in particular, I would like to highlight the following measures: first, temporary exemption from VAT on fertilizers and rations. We will also extend, by the end of this year, the reduction of the ISP on colourful and agricultural-marked diesel. We will now have an additional EUR 18 million to mitigate the costs raised by animal feed and fertilizers and we are now in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council to fight for the creation of an exceptional temporary support measure under the second pillar of the CAP (common agricultural policy), so that countries such as Portugal, where the second pillar is far above the first pillar, are not discriminated against in the authorisation already granted to increase support for agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, we will reinforce in EUR 46 million the funds to support the installation of photovoltaic panels this year and next year, in agro-industry, on agricultural holdings and on hydro-agricultural use. The third axis of this package of measures is aimed at vulnerable families, supporting them in dealing with the increase in the cost of essential goods. We will now extend to all families holding minimum social benefits the measures already in force in support of the price of food cabbage and gas. Finally, in the fourth axis, we want to speed up the energy transition, because it is the only way to prepare us for the future and put us under future crises, either by simplifying the procedures relating to the decarbonisation of industry and the installation of solar panels, or by reducing the minimum VAT rate for all electrical equipment that enables Portuguese families to lower their dependence on gas. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to recover from austerity, we have been able to fight the pandemic without leaving anyone behind, and, up to the limit of our forces, there is no storm that prevents us from facing this new adverse context and continuing our path of growth and development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Government's programme really started last week, but the Council of Ministers approved it and disclosed it. Since then, we have been following with interest the reactions of the opposition. And surprisingly—I would say even as a good sign for the beginning of legislation—we have at least two essential points of view. First of all, they say that this Programme is identical to the Electoral Programme of the Socialist Party. It's true. What else would it be like? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The electoral programme was not a set of mere electoral promises, but the commitment we made to the Portuguese. This is the programme that we are mandated by the Portuguese to run for the next four years and six months. This is — a word given, an honest word —... [[CH's laughs.]] ... our legislative contract with the Portuguese. That's what the Portuguese voted for. It is with this programme that the Socialist Party has committed itself and this will be the programme that this Government will implement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They also say — and they are right — that this programme does not have a short-term vision for the emergence of the crisis. It's true. A Government programme is by definition a legislative programme, a set of medium- and long-term measures, which does not ignore the situation but whose first purpose is not, and cannot be, to respond to the situation. It must even have a strategic vision and an ambition for structural transformation that projects us on a future horizon. That is also why the Portuguese voted in a stability solution. And if so normally, for most reasons it is in a legislature that starts for four years and six months. Over the past two years, the Government has repeatedly demonstrated the ability to adapt to the challenges of the present, without ever losing sight of our medium and long-term objectives. We never abandoned them or gave up. It is not now that we will give up, and it is not now that we will leave the Portuguese. We've never done it, and it's certainly not now that we're going to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has an ambition to grow and only the pandemic has interrupted the convergence path that we resumed in 2016, which we continued until 2019 and that we will again this year. On the average of these years — 2016 and 2019 — Portugal grew even seven times more than in the previous 14 years. The government obviously wants more and the Portuguese naturally demand more. We are, in fact, feeding on that requirement and we have been creating the conditions for achieving this ambition. Does the country have a secular skill deficit? So we halved early school dropout and increased the number of students attending higher education to historical peaks. Is the country historically uninnovative? Because we reached 1, 62 % of GDP ( gross domestic product) in investment in research and development, and still this week the European Patent Office noted that Portugal had a patent registration growth rate five times higher than the European Union average in 2021. Does a country lack capital? For in 2021 we set a new record in the attraction of business investment and finally we have a real promotion bank. Does the country need to overcome vulnerabilities, improve infrastructure, carry out reforms? For we now have a historic opportunity to win them, to build them and to carry them out, with the concentration of the funds that the country will have until 2030. In other words, now we have the conditions to do what is necessary to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the way they wanted to interrupt, but this is the way that the Portuguese said unequivocally that they want to continue. For this is the way that we will pursue. We have a plan, we have a strategy and we have goals to achieve. Our plan—I will repeat, for no one to doubt—is very clear: to ensure that the most prepared generation of ever will also be, here, in our country, the most accomplished generation of ever. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our strategic agenda identifies and responds to four central challenges. First, we have to respond to the climate emergency. Portugal has taken on a position of global leadership in response to the climate emergency over the past six years. We must continue in this path of accelerating the decarbonisation of the economy. We must strengthen our commitment to public transport, and in particular to railways, to insist on the enhancement of national territory, from sea to forest. We must move forward to a more environmental-friendly economy, an environment-friendly economy that allows us to explore the potential of our territory for new economic activities, an environment-friendly economy that creates more and better jobs. And we have a set of very clear and quantified objectives. Let us focus on one: today we have reached the target of 60 % of renewables in electricity production and by 2026 we will reach the target of 80 % of renewables in electricity production. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The new generations will not forgive us if we leave them as their inheritance a planet on which they cannot live. And if we do not do everything, absolutely everything, that is within our reach to tackle the serious environmental crisis we are facing, that will be the result. We don't agree, we don't resign, and we're here to face it. And this government will further strengthen this fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, we need to counter demographic winter. In 2019, we took on the response to the demographic challenge—which is, we have no doubt, one of the biggest structural issues in our society—as one of our priorities, continuing the path of achieving positive migration balances, which we were able to resume, and improving fertility indicators. But we must continue and recover the backlog of the years of pandemic. The challenge obviously requires an integrated response. From then on, it goes by fighting birthbreak by creating conditions so that each family can have the children that it really wants to have. It is about implementing the freeness of day care and ensuring better conditions for reconciliation between work, personal and family life in the center of social consultation. It is about ensuring decent jobs, with fair wages, and access to housing at comportable prices, to ensure the realization of the life projects of young families. By providing those who grow older with an active and quality life. By creating the conditions so that all those who have left in search of a better life know that their country yearns for their return and do everything to make it happen as quickly as we can. But it is also about attracting and guaranteeing a decent welcome to those who seek our country with the aspiration to achieve better living conditions here, refusing to compromise with xenophobic attitudes or giving in to intolerance that weakens democracies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, we must also continue the fight against inequalities. Over the past six years, the national minimum wage has increased by 40%, the unemployment rate has risen to half, and today we have less than 354,000 people at risk of poverty than we had in 2015. But we continue to have a demanding way to fight the inequalities that persist in our country. Let's keep fighting for gender equality. Despite many advances, reality still shows strong inequalities that must be fought by all those who believe in a decent society. We will continue our wage valuation policy to increase the relative weight of wages in national wealth. To this end, we want to conclude, at the heart of social agreement, the agreement on productivity and income, with a very precise objective : to achieve a weight of wages in GDP equal to the weight of wages in the GDP of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will continue to develop a fairer tax system, promoting progressiveity, already with the State Budget for 2022, through the deployment of the third and sixth steps of IRS ( income tax for natural persons ). We will also continue to combat inequalities through education, rejecting determinism and allowing it to fulfil its role as a social elevator. Education and the qualification of society are even the main seed of our collective future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will bet on territorial cohesion, correct asymmetries and make the whole national territory more cohesive, inclusive and more competitive. We cannot accept or continue to live with a country at two speeds. Finally, the fourth strategic challenge: ensuring digital transition. The growth of the Portuguese economy has been based in recent years on the performance of our companies, which have welcomed innovation, initiative and diversity and have become even more productive. Building a modern, innovative country in front of the information society implies thinking about citizens and empowering them. As such, we must invest in culture, training, education and science. The goals we proposed could not be clearer. In this decade we want to reach an export volume equivalent to 53 % of gross domestic product and achieve a global investment in research and development of 3 % of gross domestic product. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] They are realistic goals that are within our reach and they depend on our collective future. We have a design, we have a strategy and we have a model of development: an economy and a society based on knowledge, in which productivity growth results from the innovation and qualification of people; an inclusive society, which offers all the competences to be able to participate in the opportunities created by new technologies; an economy with increasing added value, shared fairly with its workers; an open economy, in which the State receives foreign productive investment and supports the process of internationalization of companies and the modernisation of its structures. We want to have a financially stronger state, better organized and better prepared to respond to the multiple uncertainties which the future holds for us. Because the pandemic and now the war came to remind everyone, to remind those who had forgotten and to deny those who preached the opposite, that, on the limit, when everything fails, when everything seems to collapse, it is the State, it is even the State, that remains. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, as the recent past and present remind us, the future is not liberal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u3	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u4	The future is of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u5	That's what we're gonna see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u6	The future is of the social state because it requires that we all take care of the weaker ones and that the state, on behalf of all, with collective resources, creates conditions to ensure progress, social cohesion and responses to the context of crisis. It is that state, financially strong and modern, at a time that is helpful and friendly, that we have to disburocratize and decentralize. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have already had the opportunity to say and write, the absolute majority does not mean absolute power. We want constructive dialogue and consensus-maker, political dialogue and social dialogue. Dialogue that frees the society of corporate webs, that strengthens the Armed Forces and the operationality of security forces, that allows agile and speedy justice, in the protection of democratic legality and in the protection of rights, freedoms and guarantees, dialogue that fulfils the constitutional project of local and regional decentralization, that guarantees predictability and continuity in investments in culture and science, and that ultimately decides and allows to implement strategic projects that have been dragged into uncertainty for decades, such as that of the new airport or high speed. But as Mr Ex. President of the Republic said in the act of possession of this government, dialogue cannot be an « argument not to decide or not to do what he can and do for himself ». Today we have more time to live in democracy than in dictatorship. Our institutions function, the powers of the State exercise their function, the judiciary is independent, the autonomous regions and local authorities enjoy autonomy, the press is free, social consultation is present. [[CH's laughs.]] We will rule with democratic humility — hoping that everyone will have the same democratic humility, in fact —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with respect to the institutions of the Republic, in permanent dialogue with this Parliament and the President of the Republic. We have a strong, cohesive and articulated government. It will not be the need to turn to the turbulence and unpredictability of the time we live to prevent us from achieving the strategic objectives that we propose. It wasn't like this with the pandemic and it won't be like that now, with this war. After an unwanted political crisis, we have no more time to waste. The country we all want and the one we aspire to is in our hands. Not only in the government or Parliament, but in the hands of each and every Portuguese, they are wherever they are. For the realization of this great project, of this our common future, of this Portugal that we want, we will commit all our energy, our strength and our creativity. Together we will tear the paths to the future. Together we will continue and we will succeed once again for the benefit of Portuguese and Portuguese, for the benefit of Portugal. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. In accordance with agreed agreements, there will be requests for clarification. The parliamentary groups have the right to make a first request for clarification for a period of 5 minutes, to which Mr Prime Minister will answer immediately, in the following order: first, the largest opposition party, then the parliamentary groups by order, and the only representatives of parties also have the right to ask their questions, obtaining the competent answers at this first stage. The Bureau will use natural tolerance in relation to the times of these initial questions, but not in relation to the total time affected by each parliamentary or parliamentary group, so that I ask everyone to manage their time better. For a first request for clarification, Mr Rui Rio, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will ask you questions about points that have distinguished us substantially in the last election campaign. The first relates to TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), TAP which is at least a company that has been in the hands of taxpayers since 25 April and which has still received EUR 3.2 billion in a financial orgy that gives on average € 320 to each Portuguese. And it gives every Portuguese who lives in Bragança, who lives in Guarda, who lives in Porto, who lives in Faro, who lives in Ponta Delgada or who lives in Funchal, that is, everyone pays. However, what we see—and this week we've seen again—is that TAP will cut out seven more destinations in port and 700 000 more places in port. TAP is a regional company and, above all, it does not provide the public service that is due, before the money that we all pay. [[PSD applause.]] So far, the nationalization that you made of TAP has served only for the Portuguese to pay. My concrete question is this: in front of this more than this week, or last week, we know, you're gonna do something or you're not gonna do anything and you think this is okay? The second question has to do with the income policy which has greatly distinguished us and, of course, in principle, with the question of national minimum wage. We said that the national minimum wage should rise and rise according to inflation, productivity and then something else to force the rise of the national minimum wage. However, VV. Ex.as said otherwise: "That doesn't matter at all, we're going to get to 2026 and give 900 €", which certainly gave him votes, because it looks like a lot of money. It happens that — and you mentioned it here a little while ago — we have inflation. An inflation that has already increased by 5 % in Portugal has already passed by 7 % in the euro area, so surely 6 %, 7 % will arrive here. If we take in inflation more the productivity of your Stability Programme, more anything else, here is only 9, 7 % increase in the national minimum wage for next year, i.e. our formula would end up giving more than 900 €. So, the concrete question I ask you is: do you keep the €900 or assume that you will adjust the values by the value of inflation? This is because one thing is to promise the Portuguese €900 with 1 % inflation, another is with the accumulated inflation of 5, 6, 7%. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, if you do not adjust, in such a way that the value of €900 in 2026 is the value of inflation, we draw an obvious conclusion: you cheated people, regardless of some even like to be deceived. But, I repeat, you have deceived people! [[PS protests.]] That is why this question is fundamental, in a matter which was also fundamental. You also said that I was going to raise the national average wage. I never understood how, because this is not by decree and much less with the economic policy that followed and will continue to follow, from what we understand. But there is an average wage that can rise, which controls directly, which is the average wage or public service wages. And for these public service salaries to rise, as promised, account for the same inflation, which will be 5, 6 or 7 %. So my question is the following: will the value of increases to public service incorporate inflation and productivity gains or not? It is that you incorporate the value of inflation and the productivity gains contained in your stability programme document and if you give anything more, for example, 1 %, only here for next year is 10, 7 % increase. So what will the government do with its promise to increase the average wages in those who effectively control them, which are those of the civil service? Finally, the last question has to do with an announcement you made here today concerning the price of fuels. The government also largely controls the price of fuel because more than half of the price of fuel is taxed. You mentioned here that you were going to download the ISP. He had already said in 2016, when he increased it, that he would lower it when the cruel went up, but did nothing of it. All right! We will then believe that at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers will do so. But you're going to do it reported—I heard it here — in October. It happens that this budget of the current state, which is the State budget for 2021, was made with the price of the cruel less than half of what it is currently. Therefore, the government has been earning VAT since January 2021, because VAT affects the price of the raw, of course, and more taxes. So what I was supposed to do was return the ISP on the basis of VAT gains since January and not since October last year. I believe that if you do not do so at least EUR 500 million more, that is to say, you will have an increase of at least 40 % in the VAT revenue for fuels. Question: why does it not reduce the ISP to the date that oil actually began to rise and started to win the government and does it only from October? It is that, as you have announced, there is a clear conclusion which is being drawn: the government is continuing to win with the price of the fuels, the way they are, and it will continue to win, although it can earn a little less. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u9	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u10	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, listening to the enthusiasm with which he returned to the debate of the election campaign I felt he wanted a second round of the elections. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] But, Dr. Rui Rio, to see the good example of the result you have achieved in the circle of Europe we will go to it! Let's do it! [[PS's laughter and applause.]] I begin, in fact, to understand why it is going to delay the internal elections in your party: it is to see if you are still going to a second round with me. I'll be here for another four years and six months, so you have time to go and come back and I'll still be here. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Mr Rui Rio, on the first question on TAP, let us be clear: this year TAP doubled the number of flights from port to port for last year. In fact, by the winter period it had increased flights by more than 100 % from Porto. [[What?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u11	What you have been comparing is the flights that TAP is making today with the flights that TAP was doing in 2019, and it is true, neither of the Port nor of any place, has TAP reached — I believe that no company in the world has reached — the number of flights it was doing in 2019. That's the recovery we're having, that's the recovery we're probably going to get. I'm going to the third question you put. [[He's not gonna say anything else about TAP!Is that what you're talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u12	On its third question, what I announced here was this: firstly, we have asked the European Commission — and it is not easy — to authorise the reduction of the maximum VAT rate on fuels at the intermediate rate of 13 %. As we still have no answer from the European Commission, what we are going to do now is lower the tax on petroleum products so that the taxpayer will have exactly the same savings as if it had that 10 percentage points reduction in the VAT rate. That's what we do. At today's prices, the whole of the measures I announced here means reducing by 52 % the increase in petrol since October and by 74 % the increase in petrol since October. Mr President, promise the Portuguese that there will be a zero increase in fuel is not honest either before the elections or after the elections. I said nothing before the elections, said nothing in the elections, and now I say that the elections have passed, unless you want the second round that is not scheduled for the calendar. Now, this is a very substantial reduction and we're talking only about fuel. But I would like to point out that this is for the consumer in general, because for the professional gas oil for the transporters, for the electrointensive, for all the intensive energy companies, there is a set of other measures aimed at effectively supporting not only vulnerable families, but also companies in the sectors most exposed to this crisis. Last note on income policy. I believe that we must fully understand the nature of this inflationary period that we are living in. It is an imported inflation, it is an inflation that tends to have a conjuncural nature and has very precise causes. The best way to protect the purchasing power of Portuguese families, workers and pensioners is to tackle the root problem and tackle the root problem is what we are doing, that is, to go to what are the causes of this increase in prices. Where do we have them? We have these causes in energy, in fertilizers, in animal feed, and that is where we concentrate our effort. That is why I also announced here—it did not realise! — the exemption from VAT on rations and fertilizers, in order to contribute to the increase of these prices, which are fundamental, and to prevent the irradiation of this inflation to the economy as a whole. How should we adjust income policy to this reality? It is something we have to go along with and negotiate with the social partners this year, because as Mr Rui Rio is still of the few economists he studied in the 1960s / 70s he well knows that the risk we have to avoid is the contamination of the economy as a whole due to the illusion of the wage increase in this inflationary increase. If we confirm, as all international institutions point out, the eminently conjunctural nature of this inflationary tension, we must look at the income policy of next year not in the light of this occasional tension this year, but in the light of what has to be the purchasing power that we have to sustainly guarantee to Portuguese families, avoiding any spiral of inflation. That is what we should do, and you know very well that this is how it should be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u13	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, by the Socialist Party, has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to discuss the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme and it is a particularly important moment for the Socialist Party. The discussion of this Government Programme is, to a large extent, the discussion of our electoral commitment and, if this Government Programme were expected to be something else than the compromise that these 120 Members signed in the elections, have been misled. They were wrong! This is our commitment to the Portuguese. This is the program we're going to defend. This absolute, dialogueal majority, who wants to continue to dialogue with the democratic right and with the left, has an electoral programme to defend, has a commitment that will honor. And when you, Prime Minister, introduce yourself in this House and present the Government's programme, essentially based on our electoral commitment, the only thing we can do is congratulate you and tell you that we are here to defend your electoral commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I say more: this program will be run for four and a half years. Four and a half years in which we believe we are able to offer political stability. But the choice of political stability was not a choice made by the Socialist Party or by the candidates of the Socialist Party. Political stability was a choice of Portuguese, elections, polls and we have an obligation to respect that desire. The political stability of the next four and a half years is assured by this Parliament, by this majority, but it is a response that we must give to the whole of Portuguese citizenship and, therefore, this party, this bench is here to guarantee the objective conditions that the Portuguese people wanted to give to the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are well aware that in the face of the storm, in the face of turbulence, the Portuguese chose confidence. Trust in leadership, trust in a central party of the Portuguese political system, trust in a programme that is, to a large extent, presented here today. But the Portuguese, Mr Rui Rio, had alternatives that they did not choose and we believe that they will not choose them on a second lap either.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u15	But in a third...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u16	The trust they placed on us—with the stability on the left that was impossible to guarantee in the XIV Legislation, but which on the right was also impossible to build—was trust in this absolute majority to develop this Programme, which is our Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would say more: if, on the left, what happened in the XIV Legislation proved that they would not be prepared for the most difficult and turbulent moments of government, the truth is that, on the right, Mr. Members, dancing, flirting, insinuating that the extreme right could be part of a parliamentary majority was not a great alternative and the Portuguese dropped that solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Therefore, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a Programme, a Programme which, even in turbulence, even in the storm, bets on economic growth, but not on any economic growth. This is economic growth, Mr. Members, who do not want to leave anyone behind, economic growth for all. Mr. Cotrim de Figueiredo says he'll be small. It's small, but it's for everyone, it's not just for some, nor do we serve any customers in a particular way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL rice.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this economic growth — this is the issue — is also an economic growth to combat inequalities, and therefore the request for clarification is clear: Mr Prime Minister, economic growth and convergence, but by combating inequalities, because for us, in the PS, the difference is necessary, is part of freedom, but a difference that deepens social inequalities, that, we will never subscribe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u17	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u18	Answer what? Oh, my God! It's not worth it! There were no questions, you can save time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u19	Mr President, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, in his own person, I greet all the Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, congratulating them for their victory in the last legislative elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, there can be multiple elections, but there are two, in fact, one that is absolutely fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u20	Two or one?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u21	It's one, let's be economical. The country did not want any political crisis and the country, at all, did not turn to what was the feeling permanently fueled by the political-media bubble. After all, the country was not tired of me or the PS, after all, I was not really tired and the truth is that the country not only did not want to change, as, on the contrary, it wished to continue and guarantee stability to the continuity of the work we started in November 2015. What an idea, in which this reality is based, so distinct from what is heard in these parliamentary benches, what is echoed in the commentators, what seems to be the dominant opinion. And that's why they were very surprised at the election result.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u22	Even you stayed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u23	They were surprised by the Portuguese will for a very simple reason: between what they think and what the Portuguese think goes a world away. That is the great reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have, in fact, a huge responsibility, because the confidence that has been placed in the majority parliamentary group in this House of the Republic and in the Government is a unique responsibility, at a historic opportunity. Therefore, the absolute majority means even absolute responsibility to correspond to what are the challenges we have in front of us. And one of the central challenges is even growth. As for growth, we cannot follow again « the siren corners » of those who resort to the statistical trick, to do the average of 20 years to disguise the average of the last 6 years, those who use the last 20 years to hide that between 2016 and 2019, we have grown seven times more than in the previous 14 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And not only have we grown up again with the European Union, which has not happened since the beginning of the century. And to converge with the European Union — some say 'ah, that is to converge to the average' — it is to converge to the average, precisely to converge with the largest economies, such as Germany, like France, like Italy, like Spain, because they are the ones that weigh on the average and it is even with those that we want to compete and that we want to converge, it is even those economies that we want to approach. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a marathon race and in marathon races you won't win to look at who comes after us. The eyes are set, tapes, 42 km, and it is in these 42 km that we have to have our eyes fixed. It is a question of converging even with the most developed ones, and the pleasure of being able to be accompanied by others who join us in this development path, because the European project is not a competition project but, rather, a project of cooperation, of solidarity and, the more we converge, the more we will all grow and develop. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u24	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, I also welcome you after your election and would like to begin by welcoming you in a very particular way. Mr. Prime Minister is right, this is no longer the biggest government in history, he is the second largest. [[CH's laughs.]] It is the second largest to follow that of someone called António Costa and who had the largest government in the history of Portugal. There is, however, a curious fact about this government: it has the same rulers as José Socrates in his last government, and that, perhaps, is an example of what we have in this government. Mr President, Prime Minister, could not begin this intervention without speaking about your Government, because this is the debate on the Government Programme. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u26	And Minister Adam and Silva, who is here quiet, on this left side, a little bold, actually, is the minister who wrote the motion of José Socrates in 2009 and you brought him to your government to show the country how José Socrates has taken us to the right port. It is also the Minister who agreed with the sanitation of journalists and is also the Minister who was earning 4500 € to prepare the celebrations of 25 April in three or four years, when there are pensioners to receive 600 € / month. This is the Minister here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But, Mr Prime Minister, besides being the Government of your successors, or possible successors — I see that one has already been sent there to the bottom of the bench, almost close to the journalists, while there are others who are more around here — in addition to a Minister of Defence who is strange to have neither political nor military experience, when we are in a period of war — I do not know if Mr Prime Minister knows that we are at war — we have a Minister of Finance who thinks, with all honesty, that he does not believe that he is sitting here today in front of this Parliament. I don't think even Mr. Minister believes it! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, I had to see Dr Fernando Medina in fact say at a conference in Brussels that now has a great challenge: to reduce public debt. But tell me whether or not this is the President of the House of Lisbon who left EUR 676 million in debt in the Chamber of Lisbon? Oh, my God! How are you going to reduce any debt in Portugal? Oh, my God! It's impossible! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But it is curious, Mr. Prime Minister, that you have made such correct choices and I understand: sometimes, it is better to choose below than above and here the choice was curious. We are at war and Mr. Prime Minister, who thinks Russia has been very bad, and we too, who will choose to be Minister of Finance? The man who gave the data to the Russian embassy about the activists he was protecting! If this is not a shame, I don't know that the government is here today in front of us. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I therefore do not know, Mr President, whether Mr Zelensky comes here to hold the sitting, but I hope so. I believe that perhaps I could start with a handful of ears to the Minister of Finance for giving data from activists against Russia in the Lisbon Chamber. We could thus start the first session of Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But, Prime Minister, this government programme that brings you here is very curious. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u27	It is a government programme, as it says, which is based on the electoral programme. But I have something new for you. I don't know if we're going to the second round, if we're going to the third round, but, whenever we want, we're ready and we're going to go to her. [[PS laughter.]] Yes, then you'll reduce a bit more... [[CH's laughs.]] I don't know if we're going to the second or third round, but there's one thing I know, Prime Minister: it's that the elections have passed and what the Portuguese hoped for was a governance programme. Now, I ask you: do you know that there is a war in Eastern Europe? Do you not know that food goods have increased or are increasing 30% and that there are many Portuguese people who are seeing us that they have to choose between putting food on the table or having some money for themselves? Do you not know that today, who comes from Sintra to Lisbon or from Almada to Lisbon or from Gaia to Porto pays a fortune in fuel? Do you not know what is happening in Portugal at the moment in relation to general consumer goods prices? The Prime Minister does not know what to do, and that is why this is not a government programme, that is his electoral programme and his propaganda to "fill" the Portuguese at home, because he does not know what to do about it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But in addition, it is a programme, I am sorry to say that you are a liar — not the Prime Minister, but the Programme — because you say, Prime Minister, that you have made remarkable progress with regard to family doctors and there has been an increase in the number of family doctors. This, for whom you're seeing us, looks like the joke of the century. Mr. Prime Minister, since 2016, there are more 63, 5 % users without a family doctor and who is seeing us well knows what we are talking about. From Bragança to Algarve, from Azores to Madeira, throughout the national territory, people know what it is to go to a health center and not to have consultations, they know what it is to want a family doctor and not to have it, they know what their promise is to a family nurse who has never come true. Therefore, the government to come to this House says that there has been progress on family doctors, if not to laugh it would be a tragedy, which is what the socialist government is. But now, Prime Minister, perhaps today it was time, instead of wanting second rounds and third rounds, to apologize to the Portuguese for the millions of surgeries and operations that were not done in 2020 and 2021 — it was the COVID, it was the crisis, now it is the war, there is always any excuse. Mr Prime Minister, I will give you a number that should be in your Government Programme: half a million consultations were to be made in 2021, half a million; half a million of our compatriots wanted to deal with serious diseases and they did not have the health care they deserved. This, in the most tax-paying country in the European Union, in indirect terms, in the country that is stolen every day in petrol bombs. They don't have a family doctor or a consultation to be able to give them and we're here playing with second rounds and third rounds, when what we're seeing at home is solutions to their problems. Mr Prime Minister, this is what the international press said about the appointment of its Minister of Finance. The speaker displayed a sheet with ABC news. [[PS protests.]] He's here! I ask you, Prime Minister, to look at this sheet, to see how Portugal left out. The appointment of your Minister for Finance was news worldwide. Mr Prime Minister said he had no room to increase the fuel, which depends on the European Union — even after Poland had already dropped VAT, in some cases to 0 % — but even one of the press that he used to mention, Prime Minister, is here saying that he has a margin, and very large, to lower the fuel. The speaker displayed a sheet with a news from the Observer. You know why you don't want to? Because he wants to continue to receive money to finance the State budget and who is seeing us well knows why: to continue to finance those who do not want to do absolutely nothing and continue to live at the expense of those who work in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's why he wants to keep the money from the Portuguese fuel. There's no doubt about it! But now, Prime Minister, I would also like to ask about something I said here today. Mr. Prime Minister said he was very proud to have removed several of our citizens from poverty. It certainly reminds us of our debate in the election campaign, in which I told you — and it can confirm with the various advisers who have — that 400 000 Portuguese have been referred to poverty in the last year. It was 400 000, Prime Minister, who left the middle class for poverty. You can shake your head, it's the numbers! Open... when I come here to say, to this House, which is reducing poverty, I don't know what the Portuguese will think at home. Mr. Prime Minister can give you the numbers you want, but they feel in their pocket that is the reality of everyday life. And the truth, Prime Minister, is that there are 400 000 more poor people in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u28	It's 2 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u29	Mr. Prime Minister, this is the Government Programme that ignores that the world has changed on February 24, and I understand: it is that the Socialist Party has not yet understood very well in which the world has changed. And, therefore, between going to Europe or not in two years' time — Mr President of the Republic does not want you to go, Mr Prime Minister may want to go, but now perhaps he cannot,... [[CH's laughs.]] ... and has an Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs who says that he will not — and I understand that Mr. Prime Minister feels somewhat indecisive between what his Minister and the President of the Republic says, I realize that it is a little difficult to decide whether or not to go to Europe, the truth is that this programme ignores inflation and Mr. Prime Minister intelligently came here today to talk about inflation, because he knows what any well-known specialist has already noticed, i.e. that this programme says zero about inflation when the country and Europe are experiencing the greatest inflation crisis in recent years. That's why you came here to talk about inflation. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u30	Sir, it's been over eight minutes. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u31	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why you came here to talk about inflation, not for any other reason. But look, Mr Prime Minister, I will finish this first intervention, asking you very earnestly to look at the police, to look at the teachers, to look at the nurses, to look at the entrepreneurs, to look at those who, in the last two years, have gone through what had never happened in life, to look at those who truly support and continue to support this country. [[BE's protests.]] When you have to make the choice to continue fattening the state machine, to continue to increase political customers, or to give a little bit to those who have worked their entire lives and supported this state, I ask you, Prime Minister, to choose the good side, the working side, the side of those who support this country, who are seeing us and asking you to do something. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u32	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u33	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, on the first part I am not going to say anything, I think it was a casting that was certainly doing for television commentators, now in a new area that is not football. So, there, I let you argue with Dr. Marques Mendes, the dispute is not with me.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u34	The theater is on that side, it's not on this side!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u35	On the issue of inflation, he had done a good housework, so good, so good, so good that he did not even work to hear what I said. Therefore, you have not heard any of the measures I have announced, either to control the price of food or to control the price of fuels.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u36	It's not in the government program! Where is he?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u37	But, as this debate lasts two days, you will have time to study my speech and realize that you can update your papers. Finally, as far as the National Health Service (NSS) is concerned, there is no doubt, of course, that there were problems, and the two years of pandemic only increased tension over the problems. In any case, thanks to the measures that have been adopted, not all problems have been solved, if we compare the care activity of 2021 with that of 2019, i.e. the last year before the pandemic, we have already had more 4819 medical consultations than those we had and more 4687 surgeries than those we had. That is, after two years of pandemic, the National Health Service was already producing more than it produced last year in 2019, caring for more patients, doing more surgeries than it did in 2019. That is the way we must go, that is the way we must continue. Thank you very much, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u38	For a request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u39	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are going to see, but I really believe that the future is liberal, because liberalism works and because the Liberal Initiative — I think it is generally recognised — is good to make political communication. And from this high level of competence, I will tell you that I have found an excellent subtitle for your Government Programme. And the subtitle is: "Now it will be." It's just--it's over! — on the first page of the Government Programme, in the seventh year of its performance as Prime Minister, seventh year, it is said that Portugal needs a new economic model. At the seventh year—it's over! — it is discovered that Portugal needs a new economic model, « now it will be».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u40	It's now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u41	Therefore, that growth that we have now heard Mr. Prime Minister exalting the rostrum is the same growth that led Portugal to 78 % per capita income of the European Union average in 2015 to 74 % last year. Growing up like this does not seem very good to me, because it is the same growth that has led to Portugal being overcome by four countries during its fiscal year, so as not to mention the countries that had already passed us on the same ranking. If this is to grow and if it is now that we are going to grow, I ask: is this how Mr. Prime Minister understands the advantages of growth? Oh, my God! Now what's it gonna be? Oh, my God! [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u42	Now it's gonna be! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u43	Now it's gonna be! Open... It says that this new economic model which is mentioned on the first page of the Government's programme depends on innovation, depends on the qualification and depends on the capitalisation of our companies. Well, if it depends on innovation, it might not be bad for Mr. Prime Minister to start by setting an example and having this Government Programme innovating something, changing something, to have some reform worthy of that name. It is that we look at the health — almost omit of his speech in the rostrum — and we see no reform. So, it's okay. Even with that chaos in the various emergencies, which, consistently and repeatedly, we hear in the news, it's all right. As for the waiting lists, you have just said that the care activity is better than in 2019, so we don't need to do more. We will continue to throw money and people over the problem, and structural reforms of the SNS there are none. He had one smart thing: he dropped the promise of the family doctor to each Portuguese, who, six years ago, consistently failed. So at least it ensures that this will not fail, it is no longer in fact in the Government Programme. We look at education and also see no concern about the delay in learning, how our students are, over the past two years, losing their ability to have professional choices of life and thus helping themselves and the economy of the country. Structural reforms or with some level of ambition in education, we see zero. We see that housing is now elected to a new pillar of the social state. We're even trembling! ...If the other pillars of the social state have been treated in the way I just described, the housing goes the same way. So it's the state once again entering a sector where it's probably only gonna ruin unless you tell me that Minister Pedro Nuno Santos will get tired of playing airplanes and need to play house too. [[Applause from the IL.]] One thing that struck me, Mr. Prime Minister, which really frightened me, was the lack of priority given to the issues of justice, in which there are also zero structural reforms, zero change. It is therefore a government programme that puts state everywhere and does not take state anywhere. The TAP itself, as has already been mentioned, perhaps the largest public investment, whether voluntary or involuntary, is omitted in the Government Programme. There is no mention of what will be done with TAP, there is no strategy, they are already given as lost billions of euros. So, a PS government that's afraid of change is talking about innovation for what? For us to believe now it's gonna be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u44	It's gonna be now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u45	The same model of economic development will also depend on the qualification of people. The most qualified generation ever, which Mr. Prime Minister asked to say that it was a national design that was the most accomplished ever, could be the most accomplished, but it will not be in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u46	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u47	...because there is mass emigration of that same generation more qualified than ever. For a crowd, you do not identify the root of the problem, and one of the roots of the problem is the lack of opportunities for professional and personal realization in Portugal. One reason for this is the progressiveity of the IRS, which in this Government Programme promises to increase. In addition, they promise to reinforce things like IRS Young and the Return Programme, which are timely, discriminatory measures, which have already proved that they work badly. So it didn't work in the past, but now it's gonna work, because now it's gonna be...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u48	Now it's gonna be! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u49	This new development model ultimately depends on the capitalisation of companies. You need to have more capital. So what does the government do? Zero stake in IRC ( corporate income tax ), keeps it at the highest rates — from the highest OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) — and then gets more exceptions, more complications. This simplification which also says that you want to do in the tax system will not happen. [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] So now is it going to be, will companies continue to have a completely oppressive tax system and grow? Oh, my God! I doubt it, Prime Minister! The fact is that this Government Programme shows that the PS and its Government continue to find themselves in the country, and that is all it can explain is that it does not mention moving in the electoral system. He speaks of the electoral process, but he is pleased that in the last few elections alone, almost 700 000 Portuguese were left with their vote without parliamentary representation, and many others, in districts with fewer mandates, probably did not vote in their best choice, so as not to speak of the real confusion that was the vote abroad. In this Government Programme, the fact that in this Government mandate, 20 regulators will be appointed or renamed, which will be absolutely essential for the maintenance of competition in the various markets and for a more competitive economy, is omitted. It does not commit itself to the reintroduction of the 15-year debates which, in this House, will be stopped...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u50	In the government program? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u51	And this PS also does not admit that other parties take office of the State, here, I have to say, with the disorientated complicity of the PSD. So the PS has always had these hegemonic tendencies, but now it's going to be, now it's going to stop having them. So I leave you two questions, Prime Minister. I have already said here today that the absolute majority is not absolute power and I will therefore ask you: will you or will you not consider the proposals that the Liberal Initiative will present, very briefly, still at this Legislative Session, on the 15-year debates on the electoral system, on the reduction of the steps of the IRS, so that the Portuguese have better net wages? About the reduction of the ISP today has announced something, let's see if you can confirm. And, Prime Minister, he did not need to stay a month waiting for Brussels ; this which he announced today could have done a month ago, as was discussed here in this House at the time. I wonder if you will or will not agree to discuss our health proposals, so that we can quickly reduce the waiting lists. Second question, Prime Minister : it is in the middle, as I said a little ago, of the seventh year of the performance of your duties. This is a Program that shows that the PS once again has no idea how the country will grow, has an aversion to risk and a fear of absolutely undeniable change and is gripped by power. So in view of this, I ask you how you might want someone to believe that now it's going to be. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u52	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u53	Mr President, Mr Cotrim Figueiredo, the answer is simple. He asks whether I accept the proposals, but, Mr President, the Constitution has not been revised, the Assembly of the Republic maintains the same powers and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly are the same. The Government does not vote in the Assembly of the Republic. In the Assembly of the Republic, each and every one of the Members. Members are the owners of their votes. The honourable Member shall present the initiatives he intends to put forward, the Members of the Assembly of the Republic shall vote as they do. I don't give any indications or Mr. André Ventura,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u54	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u55	... nor to Mrs Catarina Martins, nor to you, nor to Mr Rui Rio, nor to Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, nor to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa on how they vote. Each Member votes as he fully understands, and I am deprived of the right to vote. Therefore, there is no confusion: it is not to me that the question is addressed! Regarding your questions, there is one point that is right: I recognize your conviction and belief, almost unlimited, in the power of political communication, believing that Coca-Cola is good, because the advertising of Coca-Cola is good. Don't! Coca-Cola is good, because it's good! Communication could even be bad... Now, what happens to the Liberal Initiative is the same: communication is excellent, the problem is even the "Coca-Cola",...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u56	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u57	...is really the product of the Liberal Initiative. That is the problem we have with the Liberal Initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member asked about reforms. If you read with a little attention the Government Programme will see, for example: in education, the reform of the model of recruitment and fixing of teachers, which is fundamental to our future; in the area of health, the reform of primary health care is essential, mental health reform is essential. The problem is not in the word « reforms », the problem again, like that of communication and Coca-Cola, is even what we mean by « reforms ». For you, the great reform of education was the privatization of education, it was the teaching check so that everyone had the freedom to go to the external Manuel Joaquim or to the public school Luís de Camões. That was, for you, the great reform! Look, to me, do you know what the great reform is, the most structural reform that the country has had in recent years and that has been achieved in the six years of our governance? It is that we had an early school dropout rate above 13 % and now we have an early school dropout rate of 5 %, 6 %. This is the greatest structural reform for the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When you speak and are always talking about such countries that have come after us into the European Union and that have grown faster than we do, there is data that goes missing: firstly, a fact that is difficult to overcome, that of geography, that is, to be neighbouring Germany is not the same as not being neighbouring Germany ; secondly — and this is a very important and structural difference — the level of qualifications. If you are looking at the level of qualifications in these countries in 2004 and at the level of qualifications in Portugal in 2004, you will be surprised that we have not been exceeded earlier, taking into account the lack of qualifications we had in respect of these countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Mr President, the major reforms for our growth are those that have to do with investment in education, with investment in vocational training, with lifelong training, with advanced training in higher education, with investment in research and science, with the translation of this knowledge into the business fabric.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u58	You've been saying that for years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u59	That is what will enable us to produce greater value-added goods, which will allow us to create more and better jobs and thus retain this generation better prepared so that it is even the best-managed generation, here in our country, and not out there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u60	Now it's gonna be! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u61	And, Mr President, so that this happens, contrary to what you say, the market does not solve everything. One of the critical aspects we have is that we need public policies that follow the income policy based on improving wages and access to housing at affordable costs is of the greatest structural importance. The honourable Member must work to see that the countries with the most liberal governments in Europe have a much higher public housing supply rate than the public housing offer here in Portugal. Do you know which country of the European Union has the highest rate of public housing supply? Do you know what it is? It's called Holland!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u62	The Netherlands!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u63	Also known as the Netherlands. Prefer the Netherlands, very well! So it is in the Netherlands that there is a greater public offer of housing throughout Europe and it is certainly one of the most liberal countries in Europe. It is, you know, to be liberal it is first of all necessary to have a strong social cohesion and this social cohesion even requires a strong social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u64	To make a request for clarification to Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u65	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Portugal needs a policy to combat inequalities and injustices, a policy that guarantees the future of new generations, a policy to defend social rights and a policy that can break with external dependence and ensure national development, defending rights, freedoms and guarantees and combating corruption. Portugal needs a policy that values wages and pensions, which defends the employment and rights of workers, a policy that can modernize the country and ensure the future with the creation of a public network of day care centres, with access to housing, the qualification of services, the SNS, public school or culture, a policy that guarantees the development and social protection of the unemployed, people with disabilities, all of whom are victims of social exclusion. It is not acceptable for wheat production in our country to respond only to 14 days of consumption. It is imperative to implement a policy of food sovereignty in essential products. Portugal needs a policy that effectively relieves taxes on the people and effectively taxes the economic groups, which fights fraud, avoidance and speculation. The national reality demands a policy that immediately puts a brake on increasing the cost of living. Speculation on food, fuel and other products brings back the real cut of wages and pensions and makes the profits of a small minority cease to increase. Someone is winning with this and it's not the workers and the reformers, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, it's the economic groups that are making war and sanctions the pretext for accumulating profits. The Government Programme, which we are now discussing, does not correspond to that policy that is necessary and confirms the PS's refusal to adopt it. This is evident, above all, in the refusal to respond to the problems of workers. The general increase in wages, of all wages, is a national emergency and requires concrete commitments with the increase of the national minimum wage to €850, in the short term, with the recovery of the salaries of the Public Administration, with the defence of collective bargaining and the fight against precariousness, dismissal and irregular working hours. This allows the rise of all wages, so as to distribute wealth more fairly and to which workers see their living conditions improved. There is also an extraordinary increase in pensions which, at least, rests the purchasing power that inflation is jeopardizing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u67	The Government's response to the country's needs is to propose that, in 2026, we have a minimum wage in Portugal which does not reach the value of what is practised in Spain today and leave the increase of wages in the hands of the great patronage due to social consultation. And even worse, the Government even admits that rising wages may be a pretext for ensuring new tax reductions to large companies, as a result of what is designated by « IRC structure adjustments ». None of the options of the Government's Programme are alarming, but what is most negative in this circumstance, in which an absolute new majority of the PS starts, is this lack of response from the PS Government. Mr Prime Minister, how can the Government, by refusing to respond to the needs and aspirations of workers, reformers, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, aim to respond to the problems of the country? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u68	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u69	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I have a certain feeling that we are at the very point where we were the last time we met here. The arguments were essentially the same as if nothing had happened in the meantime, but many things happened. This Government Programme is a programme that gives continuity to the course we started in November 2015. It continues with regard to the creation of conditions to strengthen the national economy, to continue to improve the quality of life of citizens in Portugal, to continue to improve wages and to reduce inequalities. This is the path we must pursue, but this path is not always linear. Yeah, no! We designed a scenario, there was a pandemic, which was unexpected, and we had to adjust this path to the pandemic, without changing direction, without inverting the direction and moving forward. That's what we did! We will change the pace, we will regain the pace, we will reach the national minimum wage, exactly to the point at which we planned to arrive when we started the previous legislation in 2019, and we will conclude by year the path that we had proposed to conclude next year. We now have a new legislation and a new goal that we must pursue and that we will continue in social dialogue, speaking and negotiating with the social partners and seeking to go as far as possible. We also have a new reality and, once again, we have to adjust to reality, but every time we adjust to reality, we cannot lose the direction, we must not be misled in the compass and the compass must point us to a path of continuity. There were those who believed that the road had ended in November 2021. Yes, I believed that the Portuguese would open a new stage for the way to continue until 2026, and here we are to continue until October 2026. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u70	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u71	Mr President, Prime Minister, to use an expression of yours — «in order to be a Compal, it is not enough to be a Compal opinion, it is even necessary to be a Compal» — to protect the social state, it is not enough to write in the Government Programme that wants to protect the social state, it must even protect the social state. And when we see that you give up as a family doctor for the whole population and you have no response to the lack of teachers in school, well, perhaps, the Program is not really what I meant it would be. But, Prime Minister, I understand that you have already rejected your Programme, because you realize that you are not responding to the moment we are living. And so instead of the government programme debate, it brought us here today a press conference on tomorrow's Council of Ministers. So let's go to that debate. I like it all. Mr. Prime Minister, I have listened to you very carefully and I ask you to account for me : imagine Joana, a teacher who takes 1000 € liquid home every month and who has a child. Joana pays, every month, 450 € of income for a house for her and her son, here in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon; she will spend 80 € on the metropolitan pass, which gives for both; and, finally, she will spend — she is very saved — about 120 € on the accounts of light, water, net, telephone. After paying for these basic accounts, and being so spared, Joana, a teacher, already 10 years of education, is €350 to pay all the bills of food, clothing, health, any unforeseen occurrence and that basic right, which we must all have, one day, even, to be able to go out and see a concert. These 350 € did not arrive last year, but, you know, however, the basic products have risen three times more than the salary and Joana now, cannot even reach the end of the month. And of all the measures you announced there from the rostrum, there is no one that can benefit you. This government has just abandoned all the people who live in its salary in Portugal, because it rejects a fundamental fact: it is that this cycle of inflation is not a matter of a few months that will pass now... If Mr. Prime Minister believed it in January, when he presented his electoral programme, which was already inadequate, because this cycle had already come since the second half of 2021, since the resumption of the post-confineration activity of the pandemic, if he had hoped that it would, he must have already lost it, he has already seen that it is not so. Now, with a war in Europe and with instability and insecurity to be increasingly the pretext for speculative processes that increase prices, insist that this is just a parenthesis is absurd and irresponsible, because, however, in a country with medium wages tied to the minimum wage, with such low pensions, there is a population that is desperate every month to pay the bills and that can not hear that « perhaps it is settled, it is not well known when». Mr Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to the proposals that you put forward and see well: in energy, if I understand correctly, what the proposals produce is a tariff deficit. The government has not announced anything here, for example, as the OECD recommends, of excessive profit taxation. It's a tariff deficit, isn't it? Oh, my God! And it really is — did I hear it wrong? — the return to guaranteed income of the power guarantee, now with another name? Oh, my God! For example, even if the government manages to lower the gas as it is proposing in the European Union, EDP ( Energys of Portugal ) will receive three times as much as it received in 2017, which was a year of extreme drought, by water production. That is to say, it does not touch anything that is speculative, it does not touch anything of the millions that sink our economy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u72	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u73	While people strive to pay the bill of light, while unable to pay the supermarket account, EDP distributes EUR 700 million to shareholders; Galp distributes EUR 500 million; Pingo Doce and Continent companies distribute EUR 1000 million to their shareholders. And we have to say this to the country:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u74	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u75	...is that while there are those who earn millions, there are those who have to count the coughs every month and these people need an answer. Mr Prime Minister, the expected increases in wages and pensions are 1 %, five times below the inflation that was felt by the end of March. Even the national minimum wage, which in these years has always increased above inflation, is now lower than that of inflation. And let me tell you, Prime Minister, to conclude: at a time of crisis, a proposal that does not move in wages, which has guaranteed incomes for price reductions in sectors such as energy and that ends up decapitalizing social security on TSU boars (unique social rate), in support forests that no one knows well as if there is, looks very left-wing and reminds much, much, other times we do not want to return. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u76	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u77	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we are discounting the adjectives and going to the substance. Well, with regard to the Programme, nothing has been said again, because, in fact, I said what I had to say in the election campaign, and there we have been clarified, since this Programme is exactly the same as it was in the election campaign: the ambition we have for primary health care is the same, that it contained in education is identical, everything that has to do with the social state, and that is in the Government Programme, is exactly what was about the social state in the electoral programme, and that is what the Portuguese have supported, and they have supported because they believe that, with the Socialist Party, the social state is not rhetorical, it is even concreteization. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, with António Arnaut, we have founded the National Health Service and has been with all the governments of the PS that we have strengthened the National Health Service. As far as inflation is concerned, all international institutions — not one — are all — and even nationals, predict that this phenomenon is a transitional and temporary phenomenon throughout this year. Just look at the forecasts of the European Central Bank, the Banco de Portugal, which are contained in our own Stability Programme, all point to one thing : this is a year when inflation will not continue the following year and is therefore an eminently transient problem with well-known causes. It was a problem that began with the rupture of production chains at the time of the pandemic, and was later aggravated by the increase in energy prices, either with new breaks in supply chains, with the outbreak of war by Russia, with the invasion of Ukraine. These are the causes that are known. In view of this reality, what we should do is try to tackle the problem at its roots. And what is the root of the problems? The cost of energy and the cost of some production factors, which are at risk of contaminating a set of other goods, including food goods. So what do we do? rations and fertilizers, VAT exemption. For what? So that we can lower the price of rations and fertilizers and thus contribute so that there is no increase in the price of food — absolutely essential. Secondly, energy, energy for families and energy for businesses. And, in this area, we have measures for the different sources of energy. As far as fuel is concerned, while the European Commission is not voting on the possibility of reducing VAT for a temporary period, we have already reduced the ISP to an amount equal to what would result from the reduction in VAT revenue. On the other hand, we maintain the compensation mechanism, which has been in force for several weeks, and every week we lower the ISP as a result of a possible increase in VAT revenue, not as a result of an increase in the rate, but as a result of an increase in the price, i.e. the VAT impact base, in order to ensure neutrality. With regard to families, we have adopted extraordinary support measures for the food tank and also the extension of the social energy tariff to the supply gas. And I announced here today that, apart from families that have electricity contracts and therefore benefit from the social electricity tariff, we also extended this measure to families who, being holders of minimum benefits, do not have any electricity contracts, either because they live in a room or because they live in a home or because they live in a family home and therefore not being beneficiaries of the social electricity tariff, were not benefiting from this support measure. With this enlargement to all families benefiting from minimum benefits, we are significantly extending social support to the most vulnerable families.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u78	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u79	As regards electricity, the increase in electricity prices in Portugal has been relatively contained in the set of regulatory measures and the injection of funds from the Environment Fund, which has allowed such developments to be relatively controlled. That is why, as you know, our inflation rate, being historically high for us, is significantly lower than the inflation rate that already occurs in the euro area. In March, the inflation rate in the euro area was 7 %, 5 %, in Portugal, the inflation rate in March was 5 %, 1 %, leading to annual inflation at present to 2 %, 2 % over the last 12 months. If we're worried? We are and therefore we are adopting this set of measures. As regards electricity, we are not ensuring minimum incomes or tariff deficits, the Portuguese and Spanish proposal, which we are negotiating with the Commission, obliges electricity producers, on the basis of renewables, to finance what would be a tariff deficit and, therefore, to be the electricity system itself to bear the costs of limiting the maximum electricity price, so that the price of electricity does not grow according to the growth in the natural gas price. This is the measure and therefore is not a financing measure by the State, neither of financing by companies nor of financing by consumers, is pure and simple financing through extraordinary and unexpected gains, which the electricity system is having. That is, instead of creating a tax on these gains, we are internalizing these gains, making them finance the control of the price of electricity for families, businesses and all. If the world is perfect? No, the world is not perfect. The world will be better when Russia withdraws from Ukraine and peace is restored; the world will be better when supply chains are reestablished; the world will be better when we realize connections with Spain and Spain with France; the world will be better when in 2026 we already have 80% of electricity and not only 60% with origin in renewable sources; the world will be better as we have worked to improve it. Now, we will work to improve the world is something we do every day and we will continue to do. Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, if I may only have one more note: Mrs Deputy, there must have been some misunderstanding, because there is no bolus or any exemption in the area of TSU. The only thing that exists, as happened in response to the pandemic, is the possibility that there will be performance programmes, in order to protect businesses, to maintain employment and their work. Deep down, we must learn from the good results we have achieved in coping with the economic and social dimension of COVID. At the time, what we had was really a problem in demand, we really needed to support companies, because they were stopped, and finance the layoff, so that unemployment did not exist. Today, we have no problem on the demand side, we have a problem on the supply side, with production costs inflated, in particular, by energy costs. So, what we have to do is actually support the offer, so that the offer doesn't stop, so companies don't close and, therefore, the answer is now not the layoff, the answer now is actually to support companies so that they stay in labor and the economy can resume the recovery path that was beginning after the COVID. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u80	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mrs PAN, Inês de Sousa Real, to whom I would like to remind you that you have a limit of 2 and a half minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the green transition, namely climate and economic decarbonisation, in addition to what is the need for the country's socio-economic recovery, in our view, cannot literally mean a crossing in the desert. And I begin by recalling this issue, because we have already heard his words about the fall of the ISP, we have also looked at a government programme that is no more than a 'copy and glue' of the electoral programme, as he has also acknowledged here, and, Prime Minister, that leads us to nothing more than what has been so far a'very little' place in European rankings. On the other hand, it is with great concern that the NAP sees that we have ceased to have a ministry of the sea, thus losing the importance in what was ministerial dignity; that the same government that says that it wants to preserve nature, preserve our biodiversity, on the other hand, gives green light to the expansion of the stream and also has projects that will somehow undermine our biosphere, including in protected areas; and that somehow does not have the PEPAC (Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy) aligned with environmental values. Therefore, the first question that I am asking you from the outset is whether or not you are available to review PEPAC and whether you are also available to have more efficient environmental criteria. in a country that currently has 2 million people living in a state of energy poverty, where inflation is galloping and we have already had the Portuguese Association of Distribution Companies alerting to 30% inflation, when, on the other hand, wages have grown only about 1, 7 %, compared to 5, 44 % inflation in our country, what measures will it take? It just seems to us that we should actually review only the 3. o and 6. IRS steps are very little. He also talked about the change in the ISP downturn, but he did not tell us whether there would be environmental criteria for the same purpose, namely the introduction of biofuels, or when the regulation of maximum ceilings for fuels. And, as you have also mentioned in the reduction in VAT of rations, I ask you whether you are going to ignore the more than 50 % of families that have pets or whether these families will also be entitled to see reduced VAT in the diet of pets. It is that today there are Portuguese people who have to choose between buying drugs, buying food or, in fact, not having what they eat, because they receive only €278 a month's pension. And, in this sense, there is a route in reviewing the steps of the IRS with which Mr Prime Minister has committed himself and which, in our view, is essential to do. In conclusion, regarding domestic violence, because it is completely omitted in your Program, I ask you what you will do to combat this scourge, when every day we have 37 people complaining about the APAV (Portuguese Victim Support Association) and we don't go there with plans and plans, with strategies that don't come out of paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u82	Madam Member, thank you very much for your restraint effort in terms of time. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u83	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I am sorry to disappoint her, but the Government Programme is not a "copy and glue" of the PS Electoral Programme, it is the PS Electoral Programme itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Madam Member, I am sure that, if you had won the elections and you were here in my place, your Government Programme was your electoral programme. Or is you presenting yourself with a programme for elections and another programme to carry out when it is government? Oh, my God! We don't! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, let's see: I think that the parties have to compromise, once and for all, that what they say in the election campaign is not free, what they say in the election campaign has to be what they are available to accomplish, if and when they are government. That is how I have done my electoral programmes, and that is how I have fulfilled the electoral programmes I have presented myself to the government. Sometimes it's hard? Yeah, sometimes it's hard. Can't 100 % be achieved? We cannot achieve 100 %, but we had to stop doing what we proposed on the first day of governance, and we have four years and six months ahead of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] She said that she was vague, but, for example, in the area of the environment, she had very concrete and very clear commitments. There is a compromise we have already made, and we were the first to take it worldwide: 55 % reduction by 2030 in greenhouse gases. We have the concrete objective to increase the weight of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 47 %; to reduce emissions from the transport and mobility sector by 40 % by 2030 ; to implement all investments in the Recovery and Resilient Plan ( PRR ) ; and also an extraordinarily demanding objective, which is to move from 60 % to 80 % of the electricity produced with renewable sources during this legislation until 2026. Excuse me, Member of Parliament, the Government programme is not vague, it is very concrete and we will be here to respond for each of these goals and for each of these commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u84	Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, has the floor to make a request for clarification to Mr Prime Minister up to two and a half minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u85	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers and Mr. Ministers of a Joint Government — which is welcomed and hopes to become a norm — this Government Programme is, in fact, the PS programme of 30 January, which is natural. And also, of course, it's not our program. This programme advocates an increase in public housing from 2 % to 5 %; the Free will defends 10 % because without it, we cannot influence the market. This programme defends €900 of national minimum wage by 2026 ; the Free said it was essential that the Portuguese minimum wage should be re-approached from Spain and now more than essential, it is urgent. Mr Prime Minister continues to talk about convergence with the European Union's average ; we believe that there needs to be a greater ambition, we need to have an ambition to be a vanguard economy within the European Union. But we welcome the fact that there are now parties that are talking about the new model of development and the knowledge economy and even about decarbonisation — and the government too — because where these ideas came from will come more and the Free will do more than just talk about them, it will discuss the new model of development from April 25th and until April 25th 2024, in convergence with the other progressive forces, but in scope with civil society. My request for clarification will be on one subject only, because for this it serves a European green left, to speak of what goes from the most concrete to the widest. This is the 3C Programme—House, Comfort and Climate, which corresponds to the first draft resolution we presented on the first working day in the Assembly of the Republic. Home, comfort and climate are very concrete things in the lives of our fellow citizens: cold and warmer in our homes; excessive pressure on the SNS; financial inability to deal with these problems; the silent tragedy of those who lose their lives trying to heat up their homes with unsafe methods. Is the Government prepared to apply the additional PRR, the EUR 1500 million that Portugal will receive from the dynamic part of the PRR, primarily in a programme with the objectives of Programme 3C? Is the Government prepared to create an additional 10 % tax credit on house insulation, heating and sustainable refrigeration, to boost this sector of the economy and for families to seek more support in this objective? He will certainly tell me that he has a programme that has already reached tens of thousands of families, but it is necessary to go further, to hundreds of thousands and millions of people who are still waiting for it. We need a five-fold program. Are you willing to discuss it with us? We will be willing to discuss it with you and with your government because Programme 3C — Home, Comfort and Climate is a programme of confidence in the future of a sustainable planet, but above all, a 'C' that needs to be guaranteed, which is that of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u86	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u87	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, I thank you for your questions and I greet you for your election to the Assembly of the Republic. First of all, I do not know your draft resolution, so I am not going to answer you specifically about it, but I am going to tell you the following: the notice that is open, within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, to finance the improvement of the energy efficiency of buildings, particularly of housing buildings, still has a large amount to be used for the universe of candidates who have already presented the contest. I have also had the opportunity to talk recently with the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action about the need to further advertise the existence of this programme, because it is my conviction that what explains a low rate of candidature is actually to have little knowledge of this programme, so it is necessary to disclose it more. Secondly, one of the most important money from the PRR is precisely the financing of the construction of 26 000 housing fires throughout the programme. This is the largest investment in public housing that the country has already had, since, in the early 1990s, the programme for the eradication of barracks was launched in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. With regard to extraordinary funds—i.e. the second tranche of the RPP's funds to which we are entitled in the new redistribution process, which must be around EUR 1600 million—, they will, in essence, be aimed at strengthening the programme of Mobilising Agendas, which is a programme where, in fact, there are multiple candidatures that have to do with industrial investment in the green economy. It is an area that we have to feed and strengthen, so that we can expand your activity. The consortia between the scientific and technological system and the industrial and municipal enterprises, which appeared in this area, have a very significant value and it is very important that this reinforcement be made. It is probably going to be directed towards these areas, because I assume that, in the recommendations of the European Semester — in fact, they are not yet public — an important part of the Commission's attention is no longer going to those areas which, before, were so passionate about the liberals, but will be very targeted and directed towards the areas of climate change, to the need to accelerate our energy transition and improve our energy efficiency. Therefore, waiting for specific recommendations for Portugal, I anticipate that much of these funds will even strengthen the green dimension of the Mobilizing Agendas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u88	Let us now consider the remaining requests for clarification. The Bureau recorded 15 entries by Mr. Members to send further requests for clarification to the Prime Minister and the Government informed that the Prime Minister would respond to blocks of five requests. Thus, for a first request for clarification, Mr. João Torres of the Socialist Party has the floor. Now, the limit time is 2 minutes. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u89	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate Mr Prime Minister on, at a time marked by uncertainty, to address this afternoon to the Assembly of the Republic and to the Portuguese to sign with them the commitment of certainty. Firstly, the commitment to the certainty that the choices of voters are respected. The PS is faithful to its electoral programme, which serves as the basis for the Government's programme, after a broad legitimacy, through popular voting. Imagine what the oppositions would have said if it had not! Open... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u90	It seems from what we have heard here today that some opposition parties have come to this debate in the spirit of helplessness: they would only be satisfied if the Government Programme defended the privatization of social security; a single tax rate for income, benefiting those who have the most income in this country; or even housing without any State intervention. It is important to remember today, in the House of Democracy, that certain ideas and alternatives have even been rejected in the polls in the last legislative elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, Mr. Prime Minister also pledges the certainty that the new challenges we face will have a firm response from the Government, and this is demonstrated by the announcement of new measures which he has shared here with the Members of the Assembly of the Republic. I ask you, Mr Prime Minister — because this is also a debate which must start, even at a difficult time, a new cycle of social mobilization — if you are confident that, even with the adversities we are facing, we will be able to mobilize Portuguese and Portuguese and resume a path of convergence, growth and economic and social prosperity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u91	The request for clarification by Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block is followed. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u92	Mr President, Prime Minister, here you have made a long statement on your conviction, and that of the Government, that inflation is transient, and the Government seems to be be betting all of your tokens on that conviction. We know that this is a risk, but we will start from this principle. Still, I must warn you that inflation already existed before the war and did not decrease during 2021, on the contrary, it has increased. In fact, we do not know how long it will last, but even transitionally, it is already leaving marks: it is leaving marks in the wages of all workers and all workers. This is a right thing. in saying, Mr. Prime Minister, that by inflation being transient, it will only act on the factors of the supply, this on the one hand does not eradicate inflation and on the other, leaves a guarantee: that the wages will lose, that the wages will have an equivalent cut or proportion of inflation. What Mr. Prime Minister is saying is that, as inflation is transient, the government accepts a cut in wages and the general impoverishment of those who work and the country. It happens that even if inflation is transient it will have side effects. And, therefore, what I ask you, Prime Minister, is the number of students who are acceptable to remain "transitionally" without classes, because their teachers have remained "transitionally" without money to pay for gas oil, housing and all that is necessary to accept a time that involves travel. It is that the risk we are taking is not just that of inflation not being as transitory as Mr. Prime Minister thinks. If we do not act on wages, inflation, more or less transitory, will swallow wages and will also swallow all the promises of its Government Programme. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u93	I now give the floor to a request for clarification on behalf of the Democratic Social Party to Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u94	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister has a sentence which repeatedly brings to Parliament — I have known it since 2015 — which is as follows: « The word given, the word honored. Do not keep on seeking. ” from its electoral programme and now from the Government programme, I would like to underline two sentences. The first relates to public services and is as follows: 'Effective public services require transparent institutions, which are accountable to citizens. » Then he also says in the Government Programme, a little further ahead, that it is imperative to stop the phenomena of corruption and fraud, acting upstream, preventing bureaucratic barriers where the seeds of corruption sprout. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] Good words! Let us then put them to the test by means of acts, i.e. words converted into acts. Specifically, Mr. Prime Minister, I invoke here one of the facts that has been much talked about in the past legislature and, being the Prime Minister the same, I can also ask the question at this time: the business of the Trás-os-Montes dams. You, a year and a few days ago, said here, in a debate in Parliament, answering a question which Mr Rui Rio at the time put to him about the Tax Authority ( AT ): « But I would be surprised if, before the fog everything that has existed, indeed, fully understandable, because the least that can be said is that all this construction is at least creative, so it does not naturally arouse the curiosity of going to see what is happening. It doesn't even occur to me that AT isn't doing this, because I think it's obvious, because of its functions, that you're going to do it. Do not keep on seeking. ” ‘Doing this’ was ultimately to investigate whether or not EDP should pay EUR 110 million of seal tax because of the sale of dams. Therefore, given the proclamations of your Government Programme and what has been said, I would like to bring the matter up to this point and ask you, Prime Minister, some things about this. First: after all, has the AT already done this investigation or not? Second : what was the conclusion of this investigation, possibly done by the AT? And don't say the government doesn't control AT. The AT depends on the Government ; it is not an independent entity, it is an entity directly dependent on the Government. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, whether these words of the Government Programme are also to apply to cases like this, EDP, and other cases that may arise throughout this legislation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u95	You now have the floor for the same purpose, Mrs. Member of the CFP Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, it is true that the problems there are affecting workers, living conditions get worse and wage increases are even a requirement. Government options do not respond to the need to ensure the future of new generations and the rights of parents and children, nor the strengthening of social rights, health, social protection, education, culture and housing. A policy of hiring and setting professionals in the SNS is needed to value careers and wages, which recovers consultations, surgeries, treatments and exams, which attributes medical and family nurse, a policy that saves the SNS. Why does the Government refuse commitments to implement the exclusive dedication scheme, with an increase in remuneration and accounting of points for the purpose of changing the pay position, and to strengthen incentives for the establishment of health professionals in deprived areas? In education, there is no word about reducing the number of students per class, a fundamental measure to improve the quality of education and recover learning. Valuing public school and learning requires urgent hiring, with effective linkage, of teachers, assistants of educational and administrative action, psychologists, speech therapists and other specialized technicians. It is necessary to address the problem of lack of teachers and advance towards career development, otherwise the problem of the 30,000 students who today do not have aggravating-CL will be. Why does the government refuse to accept these commitments? Also in the housing grow the difficulties of families. The protection of the right to housing requires an intervention by the Government, which must pass through the stability in the lease, by the end of the disposal counter, by income values compatible with the incomes of families, as well as by the provision and construction of public housing. The Government's response is to transfer to the authorities. Why does the Government refuse to make commitments to combat speculation and avoid family eviction, including in view of the foreseeable increase in interest rates? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u97	The last request for clarification of this first block of five belongs to Mrs Carla Castro, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u98	Mr President, His Excellency Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an accounting plan. in these six years, and even today, we have seen that the government realizes that Portugal is in the direction of growth and in convergence with Europe, when we are, in fact, on the tail. We now see that this Government Programme realizes that it is reformist. It is an exhausted programme, which repeats worn-out policies and which insists on revenues that have led, yes, Portugal to the tail of Europe. It is a Programme that lists how the RPP funds will be spent. Instead of transforming the country, we see, after all, the European funds to be used in a list of programmes that did not have budgetary appropriations or in current expenditure that did not exist, in housing programmes, health, defence... But, Prime Minister, financing such expenditure, with extraordinary funds, means that extraordinary funds end, but the expenditure remains. And the deficit. And the debt. And the state. We see a government that seems focused on spending the funds when it should be focused on growing Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u99	And, if we look at education, which should be a national design, what we see, on the other hand, is a plan to recover late learning and to aggravate the gap of the broken social elevator we have in Portugal. No, Mr. Prime Minister, we cannot say, as I said here today, that we can recover from the pandemic without leaving anyone behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u101	What we see is a country in Europe's tail with regard to closed schools and it insists very much on the use of masks by our children. [[Applause from the IL.]] We have a teacher reform to do. For six years your Government has ignored the problem of the lack of attractiveness of the profession, in an obsolete and disincentive placement process. Is it with the speedy and incomplete reform that you are in the Government Programme that you really think you can reform the situation of teachers? Nothing in that programme will effectively contribute to stopping the bleeding of the emigration of our young people, two-thirds of whom they emigrate due to lack of employment and lack of perspective, not by choice. Do you think, Prime Minister, that you change this with palliatives, like IRS Young?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u103	Finally, Mr Prime Minister, we have, yes, the most prepared generation ever, but that had an accident: to find the most unprepared government ever to stop their emigration. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u104	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Torres, yes, in times of uncertainty, what is asked of political leaders is not to increase uncertainty, but to strengthen confidence. It is requested that we strengthen the confidence that we are able to respond to immediate problems, strengthen the confidence that we do not distract ourselves from our strategic objectives and, above all, strengthen the confidence that the word given is a word that will be honored...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u106	It's always the same tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u107	... and that the commitments we make, in the short, medium and long term, in the electoral programme will be those that we will implement, in the short, medium and long term, in the action of the Government. Already for the week, when we present the State Budget for 2022, many of the commitments we made for this year will be reflected there. For the others, over the next four years and six months, we will continue to implement them until we can fulfill them. Mrs Joana Mortágua, on your question, is not a government conviction. I have no convictions, I am absolutely agnostic in this matter. I simply hear the numbers and data that international institutions give about the forecast of inflation. And what everyone says — the European Central Bank, IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) — is that this year's inflation will be much higher than next year's inflation and that we are gradually entering this year's quarter by quarter into a path of reducing this pressure. Therefore, it is not a matter of faith, it is the information that is available, and it is based on the information available that I must draw the policies, that is not on the basis of the 'I think that'. If the forecasts are confirmed, very well. If the forecasts are not confirmed, we will have to adjust the policies to the new forecasts. That's what we have to do. Now, that can't be changing the direction and the fundamental options we've had. Consider the example of past legislation: we had set a target of 750 € for the growth of the minimum wage in ion. in that year of 2021, after a year of severe crisis, we had to make an increase in the minimum wage less than we had done in 2020. But in 2022, we were able to make an increase of the minimum wage above that we would have done in 2021 to start recovering that delay. I cannot guarantee you that the rhythm is always constant and that we will always go to 120 km/h. Well, if there is more traffic, we will have to reduce from 120 km/h and, if there is less traffic, we will not be able to pass from 120 km/h, because the law does not allow us. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u108	So we have to condition this conduct to the situation that is going on. Mrs Paula Santos has raised a question which also deals with Mrs Joana Mortágua's question of wages. Looking at this inflationary tension and assuming as certain the forecasts of all entities that we are facing a conjunctural phenomenon, the best response to the maintenance and protection of purchasing power is not given in wages, is given in the containment of production costs and in the control of the costs of essential goods, in support of vulnerable families and in the containment of price increases. I say this for a fundamental reason: it is that, at the moment, the increase in prices is being driven by the increase in the abnormal costs we are having with energy, with certain production factors. Now, if we are going to consolidate this by increasing other costs on the wage base, what we are going to have is a non-transitional but structural price increase, and what is today's increase is the purchasing power that is being lost tomorrow. Those who lived in the 1970s remember this process well, and if there is one thing that no one has experienced in the 1970s or so, it is now to repeat what happened at that time. Therefore, we are experiencing a very harsh phenomenon, which has a conjuncural nature, and we must act at this moment in this nature. As regards the question put by Mr Adam Silva, I have to say that, yes, the word given is an honest word. Obviously, whoever owes a tax, whoever it is, has to pay. The AT is investigating — in the specific case, it is investigating together with the Public Prosecutor’s Office — and, when there are conclusions, they will surely be public. If there is tax to pay, it will be properly charged and, if there is no tax to pay, it will not be properly charged. I think it's normal, it's the contributor EDP, Adam Silva, António Costa or whoever it is. It's the reality of life! Everyone has to pay for what they owe. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] Mrs Paula Santos, no, we don't give up. We do not give up, we expect, in our Government Programme, to move forward with full dedication. Nor do we give up on the recovery of learning. In addition, we have a EUR 900 million programme for the recovery of learning, which we have already implemented 80 %, and we will continue to work on the recovery of learning. We don't give up. We have an effective problem with the number and framework of teachers and therefore one of the measures provided for in the Government Programme is the reform of the model of recruitment and linkage of teachers to have a more attractive career and increase the availability and interest of more qualified people to be teachers and to contribute to the improvement of the quality of teaching in Portugal. Mrs Carla Castro, I see it has not been properly coordinated. The title of the Government Programme is no longer « account», it is « now it is » — that is what Mr Cotrim Figueiredo said. I therefore draw your attention, because now they have grown a lot and have to strengthen the coordination mechanisms. It is completely wrong, the title is now « it is now », it is not « take care », as Mr Cotrim Figueiredo said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u109	Make sure it's what it is now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u110	Finally, with regard to the Recovery and Resilience Plan, we will see : the public purchase to companies and the purchase of companies to other companies, in the total Recovery and Resilience Plan, is worth EUR 11 billion. However, if you add the set of incentives to companies, between Portugal 2030 and the Recovery and Resilience Plan, and compare those that were the incentives to companies in Portugal 2020 – which you know was designed in the last government prior to my first government – you will find that we have an increase of more than 90 % in business incentives. Therefore, do not believe in everything that is propaganda, because there is propaganda that informs and propaganda that disinformations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u111	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u112	And, at the cost of hearing so much propaganda, you can even believe that both Portugal 2030 and the PRR are not intended for companies, but it is wrong: they are intended, above all, for companies. As for emigration, Mrs Deputies, they do not insist on this key, because the last government they identified was the government that called for emigration. This government is the first in many years that had positive migration balances — between 2017 and 2019 — that is, there were more people coming to Portugal than people leaving Portugal. If it's a battle? No, it's not a win battle, it's a battle we have to go on. That is why our great design is to ensure that this most prepared generation will always have conditions, right here in Portugal, to be the most accomplished ever. To that end, reform of labour law is essential, in order to combat precariousness and in order to have a better reconciliation between personal, family and professional life. A public housing offer is needed in order to have houses at affordable prices and to encourage the establishment and return of young people. contrary to what the Liberal Initiative says, IRS Young is not discriminatory; it allows, yes, to have an intelligent fiscal policy, making tax spending where it is necessary to do and not give everything to everyone, they need or do not need, be rich or poor, and not according to public policy. [[CH protests.]] Yes, fiscal policy — I regret to disappoint you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen — not only to pay your order, it really serves to be a good instrument of public policy! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u113	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as two of the Members who were registered to make requests for clarification belong to groups, or are single Members, who no longer have time available, we will have 13 requests for clarification as a whole and not the 15. So we will move on to the second group of four requests for clarification, which begins with the Socialist Party Member Miguel Costa Matos, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Prime Minister, after the pandemic, war, hindering recovery and inflation. Once again, we are caught in a crisis and when others have said, in previous crises, that there were no alternatives, our governments have responded with choices that define us as Country, for solidarity, for the value of wages, for qualifications, rather than austerity. And, in this new crisis, our choices can no longer postpone a generation, a generation that tires of being a future that takes a long time to come. At the end of this legislature, the Portuguese will ask: “What country did we leave a decade later? Will our generation have recovered the hope of a better future than that of our parents, a democracy that can fulfil and make a difference in our lives? Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Prime Minister, if today there are fewer than 45,000 unemployed young people than in 2015, the Government brings the Ponte Programme in this Government Programme, which exists to stop being the third country with a greater difference between young unemployment and general unemployment. If, in 2018, our generation was still the most precarious of all, in which 60 % of young people had term contracts, today precariousness has retreated and Portugal is leading the world by accumulating the right to turn off and having a dignified Work Agenda. We must continue the fight against low wages. If three out of four young people receive less than €950, after 25 % of wages have risen in the previous legislature, the Government has a strong incentive to raise wages in this programme. In higher education, there are fewer tips and more scholarships, but there are still many who are at the door and who have no money to study. In the living room, 20 years ago, three out of every four youths had their own home at 29 ; today, only one out of every four. In the climate emergency, in mental health, in the interior, there has been a long way to go, but more investment and ambition are needed. Mr. Prime Minister, we have the majority in our hands. In our action, the hope of thousands of young Portuguese is deposited. These are real challenges that require concrete answers, from the IRS Youth to Gate 65, which started, but more than to continue. We must dare, we must decide and move forward. There is a need for reform. How will this be done by a government, and a majority, for young people? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u115	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, dialogue, negotiation, commitment. These are the words that the Madeirans want to hear and must finally be put into practice by their Government as soon as possible. That is what the Madeirans want their government to do—and do it once and for all. Mr. Prime Minister, I remember that in the last six years your government has done little or nothing about Madeira. They were years of many promises, many failures and many debates in this House of Democracy. I do not need to re-state the various pending files, because Mr. Prime Minister knows them well. At the moment, it has an absolute majority and all, but even all, the conditions to start solving them. That is why, Prime Minister, it is time for your government to make it happen: to move from words to acts, to draw a new direction and to start a new chapter in the relationship between the Republic and the Autonomous Regions. Madeira and the President of the Regional Government, as you know, are available for this dialogue. Mr. Prime Minister, at the moment, there are no excuses. There is no excuse not to implement the dialogue, there is no excuse not to implement the compromise, there is no excuse not to carry out the negotiation and to solve the numerous pending dossiers, as Madeira deserves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u117	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, your Government Programme is so exciting that even your bankmates have had difficulties beating your hands. [[Protests of PS Members.]] If you notice, they hit him very slowly, very weak...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u119	It's true, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u120	...and some even got out of the bench so thin, through that door, so nobody could give it to you. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Not a word about security and I'm going to tell you today about the SEF (Foreign and Border Service), which is a matter that I know is very dear to us. We don't have Minister Cabrite here anymore, so it's time for change.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u121	You're being tried!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u122	As Portugal is a gateway to Europe, it is essential to have effective border control that can protect us from the uncontrolled and massive entry of people from other regions of the globe. Extinguishing the SEF was the biggest mistake of the former Government of António Costa and Minister Cabrite, which does not miss any. The "goats" followed, this was just one more. It is up to the new government, to this new political landscape, in which the Socialist Party is no longer hostage to the extreme left, to reverse the extinction of the Foreign and Border Service. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We know, and Mr. Prime Minister also knows, that, for six years, he had to do the bananadina to the Left Block, which, in turn, we already know that he does not like cops very much. But Mr. Prime Minister also knows that he no longer needs that. It is the security of the country that is at stake: the control of crime, the control of the entry of all migrants without knowing who they are, where they come from and with what intentions they come to our country. Making the SEF an asylum agency is something that shames any Portuguese citizen! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we live times of war in Europe. A war that we did not want and that here, within this Assembly of the Republic, only has the defense of the CFP. in this type of context, there are people who take advantage of human trafficking. Trafficking in human beings increased in Portugal by about 40% in 2021 — and we did not have war in Ukraine. This is another reason: only a strong police force, only a strong SEF can prevent traffic from increasing, in our country, in an uncontrolled and unbalanced way. It is up to you and your government to prevent this from turning into a harsh reality. Notice that the Algarve — I know that the members of the PS elected by the Algarve have some difficulty speaking in the Algarve —... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... can become an illegal immigration route. If the SEF is extinct and transformed into an asylum agency, it is not from agencies that we need, but from strong police, with means and ways to act. I read somewhere that are training PSP (PSC) and GNR (National Republican Guard ) for border control. what they need is not training, but decent working conditions and military conditions. For example, in Alentejo and Algarve, there is often a patrol in every 100 km2. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u123	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u124	I shall finish, Madam President, with a question. Mr Prime Minister, the question I ask you and the new Minister of Internal Administration is the following: will they or will they not continue with the macabre idea of the extinction of the SEF? It is time to turn the page of Minister Cabrita's mistakes. You do not want your government to remain in history as the one that opened borders,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u125	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u126	... which does not combat illegal immigration, but is attached to it, who says: “ Come, all of you! ” Come on, everybody, we give everything! » We don’t want that. You'll always have the battle of this side of Here! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u127	We will continue with the questions to Mr Prime Minister and to that end I have the floor of Mr John Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the options of the Government do not correspond to the needs to ensure national development. There is no option for a policy to support national production, to guarantee public control of the strategic sectors, to invest in the productive sectors to break off external dependence. The country has an unforgettable reality: it prevents us from producing the food we need to meet national food needs, and the government's options do not break this path. The external dependence on agri-food is very serious and, in cereals, it is scandalous! At each cereal production plan, the situation is even worse. In milk, problems have been dragged for years. Listen to the protests of the farmers, Prime Minister, of these men and women we greet here for fighting and resisting to put food on the table of the Portuguese. Food must be ensured at the Portuguese table, replacing imports with national production. The prices of fuels, electricity, rations, fertilizers do not stop increasing and the costs to produce are irretrievable. And farmers, Prime Minister, sell the products at very low prices, while the large distribution remains with the lion's share of the prices that consumers pay for food. Conditions of flow at fair prices for agricultural and forestry production are required. We must combat speculation about the price of production factors and defend farmers' incomes. Today farmers pay to produce. In fisheries, the escalation of fuel prices in a sector in great difficulty and the lack of support jeopardises the continuation of activity. Support for small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing is needed to meet production costs. I ask you, Prime Minister: why does the Government not make commitments to ensure food sovereignty, especially in order to increase cereal production, ensure fair payment to producers, never below production costs, and combat the exploitation that is being made with the increase in food prices? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u129	To reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor to whom I congratulate, as well as the ladies and gentlemen. Ministers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Miguel Matos, know the Government Programme well because he has written an important part of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u131	It's explained then! It's explained!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u132	Sure! Young people not only serve to walk with flags, they also serve to write, to give ideas, to make contributions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, you well know that the agenda for the new generation is cross-cutting, with a very important work dimension: decent work, fair wages, combating precariousness. A second dimension is access to housing at affordable costs, access to education — to all levels of education! — democratizing access to higher education, reconciliation of personal, family and professional life, access to housing in its various modalities, strengthening the budget of Gate 65 and action on affordable rent. It is therefore an ambitious programme and, I believe, essential for us to fulfil the plan we have proposed. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, you are absolutely right. There's no excuse. There's no excuse. You just need to do what you did; what you combined and hired to do, do. I believe that Mr Pedro Pinto does not know an essential fact. The extinction of the SEF was no imposition of the PCP, neither the Left Block, nor the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u133	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u134	It was not even an inspired idea of Minister Eduardo Cabrite.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u135	Then even more serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u136	First of all, it was a measure that consisted of the Election Programme of the Socialist Party and of the Government Programme of the Socialist Party in 2019. And it remains in the current Government Programme, so it is really to be fulfilled. Secondly, the honourable Member did not realize one thing either: what happens with the extinction of the SEF is the transfer of the police powers from the SEF entity to the other security forces and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u137	They don't have the conditions for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u138	Border control: PSP and Republican National Guard. Borders do not cease to be policed, they become policed by two security forces that have robustness, capillary enough for the exercise of this function, the PSP and the Republican National Guard. SEF's criminal investigation powers are consolidated in the Judicial Police ( PJ ), which is the senior criminal police body specializing in the investigation of the most complex, organized and transnational crime such as the crime entrusted to the Foreign and Border Service. In other words, the internal security system is strengthened with its own allocation to the security forces and the judicial police of the competences entrusted to the SEF in border control and also in criminal investigation. What happens to the other functions of the SEF? The other functions of the SEF are internalized in the Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum, taking advantage of the know-how, expertise and expertise accumulated over the years by the SEF officials in the area where they have a differentiated competence and knowledge in relation to the other security forces and other criminal investigation officers. Thus, they constitute an added value for our Public Administration. Finally, Mr João Dias, I would like to say that I have already had the opportunity to announce a number of important measures, which add to the measures, which have been adopted, to support agri-food production. And I spoke of two fundamental measures: the exemption from VAT in rations and the exemption from VAT in fertilizers, which have been significantly pressuring the increase in production costs. In addition to all the measures already taken, the European Commission had already opened up the possibility of direct aid from the first pillar of the CAP of EUR 9 million, and the State budget could increase that allocation by 200 %. It means, therefore, that there will be a reinforcement of more than 18 million euros. What is the big problem and introduces a huge inequality between us and other Member States? It is that in general the Member States of the European Union, as you know, the first pillar of the CAP is the most important and where are the most widespread money. Portugal is one of the few countries where the most significant money is in the second pillar. Therefore, restricting this measure to the first pillar limits us very much. Given that we only had 9 million with the distribution key, 200 % is only 18 million. Why has the Minister of Agriculture struck today — fortunately successfully, I can say this at this time — at the Council of Ministers of Agriculture? It has been fought for the European Commission to approve a legislative initiative that enables us to adopt a measure not based on the first pillar, but on the first and second pillars, which will enable us to significantly strengthen direct support for farmers at this very difficult stage that they are going through because of inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u139	Transfer the second to the first pillar? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u140	These 200 % are not paid from the appropriations in the EAFRD ( European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development ), are paid from the appropriations in the State budget. And it is with those words from the State budget that we can reinforce the European Union's funds. Ask me: ‘ And is it enough to respond to the whole price increase? » No, it is not enough to respond to the full increase in prices, but the price increase will persist while continuing the invasion of Ukraine by Russia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u141	What about the use?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u142	... as long as peace is not restored and supply chains are not restored, especially in products in which we are highly dependent, both from Ukraine and Russia. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u143	For a request for clarification to Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u144	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, I would like to stress the pride we have for being here today, after six very difficult years, to present a Government Programme incorporating the commitments made during the electoral period. This is a Government Programme that assumes the commitment mark that the Socialist Government has since the first hour with the citizens: the word given is an honest word. In civil protection, in the security forces, in firefighters, whether in the Algarve, whether in other parts of the country, there was always answer: given word is honest word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u145	What about the tolls? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u146	This programme does not shape commitments, it does not forget what it took in the election campaign. But we know that this was practical in times past, in which it was not said and in which, on any pretext, more austerity was assumed. With the socialist governments, for six years we have recovered the country, we have returned incomes, wages, jobs, hope, strengthened the social state, the economy, converged for four years with the European Union, and always with certain accounts. This is particularly important. We have made a way to reduce debt and deficit and have only recovered credibility from international markets. We want to continue to take this path to help people and the economy. In fact, with the pandemic we had a wick. In 2020, GDP decreased by 8 %, 4 %, but never, at any time, ever stayed behind. The government has always been there, giving the answer, the right answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] With financial capacity, which was important, previously acquired, the Government was able to provide this response: financial support for maintaining the productive capacity of the economy and the incomes of families. Due to the credibility gained, Portugal was able to finance itself with the historically lower interest rates, with a negative interest rate. And in 2021, the economy began to recover with 4, 9 %. We now have a war, a war in Europe that brings us particular difficulties and an energy crisis that implies, as Mr. Prime Minister said, continuing to support families and businesses. And never forgetting the key words of this government: to be with people. But to do so, we must continue with a correct account route, ensuring that we reduce the payment of debt interest, so that a possible increase in interest does not affect the strengthening of the social state. In fact, yesterday's public debt issue was a particularly important signal for us to at no time harm the commitment made in this Programme, which has an investment line and a line of continuation of support for people. Mr Prime Minister, in the face of all the challenges we face, such as the challenge of fiscal consolidation, the strong commitment of the PRR and the other Community funds, what we now have is a set of reforms and investments in this Programme. We would like Mr Prime Minister to be able to confirm whether — as we believe — these reforms and investments will ensure a more robust, more coherent, more supportive and prosperous future for our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u147	For a request for clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u148	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and each of the Members of this bench, are very comfortable being before a Government Programme that systematically translates all the electoral commitments we presented to the voters, with which we campaigned, with which we went door to say what we wanted to do and what we committed ourselves to. The only thing that surprises us is that there are those who are surprised at it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u149	But, after all, there is even a political reason for anyone to be surprised at that. Where does the surprise come from that we take our electoral commitments into the Government's programme? It comes from those who in the past took another political method, those who took the candidatures in which they said, during the election campaign, that they would overcome the crisis without cutting wages, without cutting pensions, without cutting benefits, without cutting rights, without increasing taxes, and then badly caught themselves with a majority, cut everything and made an extraordinary increase in taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u150	PS bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u151	More: these themselves said that the country's path of impoverishment was the solution to the crisis and that the cut-off of social rights had to be permanent. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we even realize where that surprise comes from. And apparently they have not yet been healed of this surprise, because they continue to insist on this debate. But it is legitimate to ask: what about war? But what about the war? Don't they say anything about the war? I think it is worth remembering that this PS government has already faced an extraordinary phenomenon of great uncertainty, the pandemic, which, in fact, has not yet ended, contrary to what some think. in this response to the pandemic, it was necessary to face the disruption of global supply chains, it was necessary to provide support to families and companies with methods that, in many circumstances, only practice in war situations, it was necessary to respond to a situation that killed and continues to kill millions of people worldwide. This governance of the PS, which now continues, demonstrated, in time and time, that it was prepared for what was predictable and that it was prepared for uncertainty, because our options were correct — fighting inequalities, facing the climate crisis, facing the digital transition, facing the demographic challenges, and doing so with social cohesion, betting on public policies and people. This governance of the PS, which now continues, did not wait for the pandemic to strengthen the National Health Service, did not wait for the pandemic to strengthen social benefits,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ... did not wait for the pandemic to give more organizational and pedagogical autonomy to schools, which was what made the public school resist and give an extraordinary response to the pandemic crisis,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... did not wait for the pandemic to define a path of development for the country, which serves times of kindness, but also serves times of difficulty. Mr Prime Minister, although it is written in the Government's programme and although I have already said it here today, I think it is worth insisting on the reasons why this programme, particularly in the area of social policy, is a resilience programme for all crises, for the pandemic that still exists, for the war that has to end and for what can come. I think it is worth explaining this to those who have not yet realized that they failed the day they made the bet that it was supposed to be the pandemic to overthrow this government, and that's why they have to change course. It is that we are going to keep the same course, of betting on what is structural, what is deep, what is future in the country's life. That is the request for clarification, Mr Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u152	For a request for clarification to Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, in his Government programme, which we are discussing today, you are presenting half a page on more than 182 pages on regional autonomy in this case of the Azores. In addition, two of the topics referred to are repeated from previous Government Programmes. I give you an example: the Regional Autonomy Council, which has not even been formalised and therefore has not met. You know that those considerations that are expressed in this half-page in a government programme, in fact, point to the importance of political and administrative autonomy, the conquest of our democratic regime, but point to - in a vain way, in a round form, in a non-objective way. And what happens is that, in fact, historically, in their governments there is a lack of compliance with the promises, needs, the aspirations of the Azores in matters of responsibility of the Republic. I am talking about the submarine cable, its replacement, because it is vital for national cohesion. I speak of a prison which in the Azores probably imposes unparalleled human indignity in Europe. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u154	I'm talking about the Horta airport. I speak of, for example, the University of the Azores, which was clearly deceived by the former Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education. See, the Minister of Territorial Cohesion in the previous Government said that her Government was indeed the most centralist that Portugal had ever known. And it's true! It's true and the Azores are witnesses to it! What I ask you, Mr Prime Minister — in addition to the talks on this half-page — is that now that the government is beginning to function in this legislature, you will tell me what priorities it has as the government of the Republic for the Azores. I am not asking you to give me 10 priorities, I ask you three priorities, because that is the only way that we will be able to get visibility of your real commitment and objective for the Azores and the Azores. A priority is to meet what you have put in the Government Programme and to review the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions. The Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions, which is over 20 years old, is a fundamental instrument for relations between the Government of the Republic and the Government of the Azores. But, more importantly than this, if it is not reviewed and updated, the Regional Government is not providing financial instruments to update policies among citizens, who are also Portuguese, so that it is not a penalty to live in the Azores and autonomy is not a reason for punishment by its Government, as has happened. Therefore, I would like to know—and today is the right day to know this—if it is also your commitment to review the Finance Act of the Autonomous Regions, updating it in the face of challenges and demands, for example in the area of health, in the area of education and in all those matters that are the responsibility of the State. A Portuguese citizen who lives on any island of the Azores should not be punished, must not be imprisoned, nor must he be the son of a lesser god when compared to any other god in this country. The relative justice and the exercise of autonomy, which you so much value on the half-page of your Government Programme, is done with concrete acts. And what I ask you to do, and I repeat, is: give me only three priorities from your government in relation to the Azores and tell me if you commit yourself to making sure that the revision of the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions is one of them. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u155	To request clarification, Mr Francisco César, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by congratulating your indigentity, your Government, the socialist majority, which are the result of a clear response from the Portuguese people, the answer not to want a situation of instability in the country. A situation of instability that my comrades of the Azores and I know very well, which is the one that lives in the Azores. A situation of a government that is supported by various parties, by the extreme right...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u157	Which extreme right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u158	...and that every day threatens to fall and not have the ability to rule. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the Portuguese did last October was a rejection of anarchy, erratic governance and an unstable government solution. The Socialist Party is proud of the Prime Minister. He is a Prime Minister who knows, and knows, respect for autonomy, he is a Prime Minister who knows how to collaborate with autonomy, he is a Prime Minister who knows how to invest in autonomy. If there were any doubts on this matter, it would be sufficient to hear the President of the Regional Government of the Azores on the current Prime Minister: « Mr. Prime Minister deserves my congratulations and satisfaction to be able to witness, in the first hour, the impeccable, cooperative and responsible institutional relationship in the fulfilment of the missions and responsibilities of the State with the Azores. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there were any doubts about the government's position, this is a position of support for autonomy. A position that has been revealed in the investment it has made in air transport, in support related to the disasters and in relation to the pandemic situation. This is therefore a government which has a responsibility and credibility in its relations with the Autonomous Regions. But there are other issues in which this government has also been increasing its responsibility, credibility and prestige from a European and international point of view. This prestige is linked to the fulfilment, for example, of the goals it has committed to within the European Union, is linked to the unique role it played during the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union or to the results we have achieved and the election of Portuguese prestigious positions for international institutional positions. It is a fact: Portugal has been at the forefront of all important European agendas, from the deepening of economic and monetary union to the dossiers of energy transition, the advance of structural funds within the European Union and other multilateral agendas. However, we must not forget a fact which has changed the whole situation locally and nationally: the situation of Russia's aggression to a sovereign country — Ukraine — which implies new responses from the Portuguese Government and a strengthening of priorities from the point of view of its multilateral action. We are aware of the implications of defence policy, diplomatic policies, the economic situation and even humanitarian situation, but this implies, Prime Minister, that Portugal must be strengthened in the context of organisations such as the European Union, NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) or the United Nations itself. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, the current situation justifies, as it has justified in the past, that the traditional priority for collaboration in the Portuguese language is clearly deepened. Moreover, the relationship we have with our Portuguese communities also deserves of our part, Prime Minister, a highlight of our policies. The promotion of our Portuguese language must continue to be a priority, just as the internationalisation of our economy should be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u159	The last request for clarification to Mr. Prime Minister is made by Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto of the PSD, who has 1 minute and 34 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u160	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate you and wish you a good mandate. I am not here to ask a question about the fact that I have presented us with a Government Programme as if the world had not changed since the beginning of the election campaign, as if it had not changed the geo-strategic and political reality, social reality, economic reality, affecting our country as well. I would like to ask you a question about a very specific aspect of the promise, or announcement, which brought here: the reduction in the price of fuels. He told us that because he was waiting for a European authorisation, he was taking a certain measure. I would like to ask you whether you are aware and what the Government will do about the fact that the European Union Court of Justice in February 2022 a few months ago judged against Community law the contribution of road service, a fundamental component of taxation on fuels. It considered that this contribution does not follow specific reasons, because it is simply affecting to finance a State department, if any, a company. Therefore, nowadays, the price of fuels is not only excessive and immoral — contrary to a promise of it when, for years, it said it would reduce taxation if the price rose — as well as illegal, that is, contrary to Community law. This can generate many requests for returns, in hundreds of millions of euros, which is the price of this contribution in fuel taxation. What are you gonna do about it? Has this violation been remedied before worrying about not violating Community law again? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u161	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, on the question raised immediately to open this round by Mrs Jamila Madeira, in 2015 the debate that marked the election campaign was the alternative between being possible and not being able to break with austerity, keeping us in the euro area. There were those who said that only with austerity could we stay in the euro. There were those who said that, in order to break with austerity, we had to leave the euro. And then there were the others — we — who said it was possible to keep us in the euro breaking with austerity. Until we said a little more, we said that it was really necessary to break with austerity in order to have conditions for us to stay in the euro area. A few years have passed since that debate. Therefore, from the doubts, ideas and viewpoints we can anchor this discussion today on the basis of facts, and the facts are clear. First, we are in the euro and the truth is that the rupture with austerity not only did not bring the devil as it did — see! — the famous growth. We, in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, not only grow as we grow above the European average. Mr Rui Tavares says: « Ah, but what we have is to grow towards those who are the vanguard of Europe. As we draw closer to the average, we draw closer to those who are at the forefront of Europe. But it is a bit, I would say, perhaps, excessively optimistic — not irritating, but excessively optimistic — to want to reach the vanguard without first passing by at least the average. It's like those who say that for many years we haven't been overcome. Yeah, no! Europe was 12 and there was no one behind us. When we go last, there is one thing we certainly give: no one gets past us. The success of this policy was based on the reinstatement of incomes, investment-friendly policy and the recovery of our country's international credibility. The recovery of international credibility was absolutely decisive. For this, it was essential to stabilize the financial system and we have maintained a path, which we have always fulfilled, of reducing the deficit and reducing the debt. The truth is that the only budget surplus that our democracy has had so far was with us in 2019. This year, when we had the budget surplus, it was not a year when we made extraordinary increases in pensions, it was not a year when we did the updating and defrosting of careers, it was a year when we increased investment in public school, in which we increased investment in the National Health Service, in which we increased everything that we had to increase to strengthen our social state. It is true that 2020 and 2021 have been different years, just as 2022 is being a different year, and we obviously have to adjust ourselves, as the European Union has learned to adjust to reality. unlike insisting on dogmatic measures that adopted in the previous crises, this time it was well realized that in the face of the crisis of COVID, it had to have a radically different response. Radically different from the flexibility of the stability pact rules and the way in which it adopted the stabilisation mechanism, which was fundamental, the SURE(Support you the mitigated Employment Risks in an Emergency), which throughout Europe financed employment support measures— specifically, in Portugal, the layoff measures, which everyone today unanimously recognises as absolutely essential for the stabilization of our economic situation. More: measures have also been taken to stabilize debts, with the activation of the ESM (European Stability Mechanism), to which no country had to resort, but which was sufficient to give quiet in the market that there would be no ruptures. And credit lines were created open to companies through the European Investment Bank. Finally, with an unimaginable leap a few months earlier, there was the first major debt issue by the European Union to finance a programme whose size is only comparable to that of the Marshall Plan in the immediate post-war period, which is the New Generation or, in our translation, Recovery and Resilience Plan. Now, this was an evolution of the greatest importance, and we must keep ourselves in the lane of credibility. That is why, despite the strengthening we made in the National Health Service and the extraordinary measures we had to adopt in the social area and in support of companies, we were able to reach the end of last year with a deficit clearly below the government's own forecast, well below 4.3% — 2, 8 %, now say 2, 9 %, who knows... it was there. The truth is that it fell far below what had been planned. That is why, contrary to what many have said — we naturally expect a downward review of our growth, in view of the unforeseen situation of the war, regarding the date on which we presented the Budget in October last year — today we have a margin of accommodation for these adverse situations as we did not have before, either because the point of departure is clearly better, or because the European Union maintains the flexibility regime this year. We must maintain the objective of having a deficit of 1, 9 %, we know that we can do so with the tranquillity of not being between the sword and the wall in the management of our public finances. This situation and the credibility we have with our debt was what made us, despite the war, have stayed right there on the threshold, when all the rating agencies were preparing to increase our rating. Even so, I believe that all — perhaps only one has not done so — have improved Portugal's outlook and our interest rate, having risen, is still far below the interest rates of other countries for which it has already been well above. The truth is, as we have evolved in this policy, we have distanced ourselves from one another, approached others and surpassed them. And here we are, moving away from the previous one and getting closer to the next one, which we know we have to overcome. This is a fundamental trajectory in order to ensure sustainability to our social model, because the greatest challenge and the best response we can give to those who see the devil, to those who see the virus, to those who now see the Putin, to those who truly dream of the destruction of the social state is to guarantee a state with solid public finances, that protects us from the liberal view of the world and strengthens the social state that a country like Portugal cannot fail. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Mr Porfirio Silva said — and very well! — we must be in a social state that strengthens the resilience of the country and our society to the various crises. In the Recovery and Resilience Plan we identified a set of fundamental vulnerabilities in the country, from then on in the area of housing. Other very important vulnerabilities in our territory are the need to increase the country's growth potential, strengthening the productive potential of our business fabric, as well as the situation of our forests and the need to complete its reform. But in addition, we need to strengthen the social resilience structure of our community and it is therefore that investments in the National Health Service and public school are absolutely strategic. That is why, too, we must modernise our social welfare policy and this is part of the Government's programme: better family allowance; better measures, such as child guarantee, to rescue children from poverty and prevent the generational reproduction of new cycles of poverty; the convergence of the solidarity complement for the elderly and the social inclusion benefit so that no one will be below the poverty line; and — the greatest challenge we have in the Government Programme for these four years — the reform of our various social benefits, to have a unique social benefit that meets all the vicissitudes of life in different circumstances, and to allow us to better respond to these needs in all situations. Mr. Paulo Moniz, no one better to quote President José Manuel Bolieiro than Mr. Francisco César and therefore refer to the words of José Manuel Bolieiro, in the voice of Francisco César, the best answer he could give him. But despite everything, I do not resist asking you a little question, because you have pointed out, and well, that the regional finance law is already 20 years old — I repeat, 20 years old! - Which is a long time. So there is a need for the honourable Member to verify and have the kindness to bring us, one of these days, the following information: during these 20 years, in how many years the law on regional finances has been fulfilled? Then it is necessary to identify the years in which the same law was kept continuously by some government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know, I know! For 20 years, there is only a very limited period in which the law has been fulfilled is something that should not be properly valued. It's like Funchal's hospital, where you don't know what's expected.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u163	And the Algarve! And Setubal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u164	Mr. Francisco César, as you know, our history is largely defined by our own geography, which designed us for a universalist vision and for the need to frame Portugal beyond Portugal. Today, this reality is well present in our communities in Europe, or rather, in all continents. It is difficult to find a country where there is no Portuguese community, or at least some Portuguese resident, and that is very important. I believe that the Assembly of the Republic has taken a step of the greatest symbolic importance in electing for President in this Parliament a Member elected by the circle outside Europe, placing as the second figure of the State someone who represents precisely those who, being further away, must be of our attention and our heart. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this, I cannot fail to make a special greeting to the Portuguese Parliament for the first time with the origin of Mrs Natalia Oliveira. It is an excellent demonstration of how, beyond the first generation, ties with the national community remain strong, rooted and enduring, now also in the House of Portuguese Democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That said, it is clear that the situation of war and gross violation of international law through the invasion of Ukraine by Russia demonstrates and stresses the importance of strengthening our multilateral system, and Portugal has unique responsibilities and conditions to contribute to this. On the one hand, because we know what it took us to have the right to sit in the United Nations and what it represented, from the point of view of breaking up with the « proudly alone », to resume our true tradition of fraternity with the whole world's peoples. On the other hand, because of the importance it has for our collective defence system we are members of NATO, an alliance that is not offensive but defensive, and which has been fundamental, indeed, as a deterrent effect on Russia's aggression action in relation to the territory of all NATO countries. Portugal is proud to integrate different NATO missions, to strengthen its commitment in accordance with the commitments made in the performance of NATO missions and to be committed to making a significant effort to strengthen the defence budget in the triple vocation it has to have: to increase the capacity of our Armed Forces, to stimulate our scientific and research system and to strengthen our defence industries. We are very successful in associating this dialogue between NATO and the European Union, that we are part of the dialogue between the European Union and our partnership with the other transatlantic communities that we are also part of, such as the community of Ibero-American peoples and, above all, the community of Portuguese-speaking peoples. This year, we will take a giant step with the full entry into force in all the countries of the CPLP (Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries) of the new mobility agreement, which, after having been duly approved in the Assembly of the Republic, is already in force in the other parliaments and will shortly entail an amendment of the diploma on the entry, stay and exit of foreigners from the national territory, to ensure that our Lusophone brothers will have the right to enter, remain and live in Portugal in full equal rights,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... just as we want Portuguese citizens to live in all these countries. This implies not only reviewing this diploma, but also the rules on the recognition of academic qualifications and the exercise of professions, including regulated professions. It is indeed necessary to conclude this package of very important reforms in order to affirm the Lusophony as something that distinguishes our own national identity. Finally, Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, I regret to disappoint you, but my life has been more busy than perhaps I wish and therefore I have not been able to follow the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on a daily basis. As soon as I have the opportunity to consult and have access to the February judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, I will be most pleased to exchange views with you on this legal issue which certainly appeals to us both. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u165	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the stage of debate, precisely with the speeches of the parliamentary groups that have entered in the agreed order: first the PSD and then the other parliamentary groups in order of representativeness. For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u166	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: A good judicial system is the heart of a democratic rule of law. An effective judicial system is a powerful engine for the development of the economy and guarantees social peace and therefore justice integrates that inalienable pillar of the sovereignty of the State which cannot be lightened or postponed to the least of the priorities. But that is precisely what this government has done, and when I say 'this' I mean the previous one, because it is successive. The Government's Justice Programme has been shaken, we see that it is a hand full of nothing and nothing else. We see that it is the repetition of the electoral programme and the Government's programme to the 2019 legislation, even with some reviews of the 2015 Programme, and does not take up the argument put forward by the Prime Minister when he said that these should be the same. The electoral programme is the programme base and the Government Programme, as the name itself says, should contain the government and the governance programme, on the ground that it is not understood why we would be here today to debate it if it had already been covered during the election campaign. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u167	This means that almost nothing has been done by the persistent government, with all the disastrous consequences of economic and social stagnation and the inherent degradation of the quality of democracy. It is true that the previous government has presented a strategy to combat fragile corruption, which has even been approved by Parliament in a favourable way, but, as the old adage says, « without eggs they do not become omelettes». We have a very weak criminal investigation, with the main ones responsible for announcing long ago the pre-break of the services of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and at least 200 more prosecutors are missing so that the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office can stabilize. Several personalities, including the Attorney-General of the Republic, the Vice-Procurator-General of the Republic and the Director of the DCIAP ( Central Department of Research and Criminal Action ), have called attention to this very serious problem, which worsens every day with the resignations of the prosecutors without the corresponding entries to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In criminal investigation almost everything is missing: there are no justice officers, and there are sections with more magistrates than officials; they are missing even — and no longer! — paper and other consumables. That's how our justice goes. Criminal police agencies do not have human and technical resources, missing inspectors and experts, and the Judicial Police Scientific Police Laboratory does not have the capacity to do the necessary expertise for rapid and effective criminal investigation. I remember for years that the DNA research machine (deoxyribonucleic acid) has been damaged. I also recall that the 2000 Organic Law of the PJ, provided a framework of 2435 elements. Twenty-two years back, we have less than 1152 researchers than in the 2000 forecasts. It is true that 101 inspectors entered last March, but these are far from failing. The judicial police computer park continues to pre-history when compared with technological needs for the investigation of new and sophisticated criminal phenomena, with a particular focus on economic-financial crime and related crime. There are not enough laws, resources are needed to combat corruption. But the malfunction of justice is transversal to all areas of the judicial system. We have the local judges to say that the courts are at risk of rupture, with the collapse of the services due to the lack of officials, and that there is a serious risk of several procedures prescribing—which is the most inglorily form of a final process—in addition to the delay and procedural slowness that the lack of human resources leads to. Having analysed the Government Programme, we see that it does not have any concrete proposal for the true cancer that is the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction and that it does not have measures to prevent the severe paralysis of proceedings in the TAF (administrative and fiscal courts) with particular focus on its higher courts. What is happening in the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction is an authentic denial of justice to citizens, who are deprived of their rights in practice. It is imperative that more than two central administrative courts be established, which, as it is known, are equivalent to the courts of the relationship in the common jurisdiction, with at least 15 demarcators in the tax sections and 20 in the administrative sections, creating also specialized competences in the higher courts, as well as the effective strengthening of the first instance FATs. Any sentence, in order to do justice, has to be timed, which does not deal with demands for years and years, and even decades, as happens in this jurisdiction. We must not forget that administrative and tax jurisdiction is the private forum of the State. That is where all the actions in which the State, in its various representations, are judged and answered before the citizens. The damage caused to the country, citizens and businesses with this intolerable slowness is enormous and must be stopped. Moreover, this morbidity is a factor conducive to corruptive behavior, paying attention to the immense difficulty in resolving any dispute with the State in court. It is almost encouraging that we go through the lines and, on this very serious problem of the paralysis of the TAFs and the inherent paralysis of the economy, the Government's programme under discussion says nothing, does not foresee anything, does not propose to solve anything else like what has been done in the past six years. It is also with great concern that the Government presents, as solutions to many of the grave problems in justice, the replacement of courts by alternative means of dispute resolution, and resigns itself to ensure a function inherent to the sovereignty of the State. The government, already in 2019, had proposed transferring fundamental issues to the lives of citizens, such as the regulation of parental responsibilities, inheritances or shares, as we know, to alternative means of dispute resolution, now renewing the same proposal as a measure to decongest the courts. The government finds nothing better to decongest the courts than to empty them, but makes a terrible mistake: it has forgotten that the inventories have returned, and very well, to the courts, after their nefarious passage through the notary books. Issues of particular importance arise in their own place, which are the courts, organs of sovereignty called for to ensure social peace. The Government reiterates its promise to « bring justice closer to citizens, more efficient, modern and accessible ». This is necessary, however, but the government has done nothing in the last six years to happen. There is no doubt that all this is necessary, but the problem is that no measures are being put forward for the proposal to turn from mere programmatic chavão and become a reality. The PSD has often warned of the uncomplicated cost of access to justice, preventing many citizens from using courts for the protection of their rights, particularly affecting the middle class, which cannot benefit from the system of access to law. There is an urgent need for effective reform of the system of legal costs, reducing its value and introducing the rule of payment phased into more than the two current benefits. The value of the costs shall have a social component by means of the average indexation to the incomes actually taken and not only according to the value of the action, in a blind payment. As for the legal costs, the government says the same thing as in 2019, proposing « to reduce situations where procedural costs import excessive values... » — i.e. to recognise that judicial costs import excessive values! — but only in cases where there is no alternative to the composition of a dispute. I mean, he's pushing the citizen completely into private justice. Also for the system of access to law, i.e. legal support, the Government does not propose any concrete, continuing to lack the protection of citizens who need to resort to the judicial system by tightening their right to access to courts in violation of Article 20. that of our Basic Law. The Programme refers to the strengthening of laboratory activity within the framework of criminal investigation, but no concrete proposal is made to combat the sharp slowness of the expertise necessary for the instruction and good decision of various processes, including medical, forensic, computer and technological expertise, which are the cause of major procedural delays. The PSD has repeatedly talked about the need to reform the skill system—not the regime, but how they are being processed. The Government also provides for nothing to solve the large volume of expectations in the Competition, Regulation and Supervision Tribunal, despite cases of process prescriptions, with a strong social and economic impact, which have occurred. The serious entropies detected in the financial system and in the bank are paradigmatic of the failure of regulators and that supervision has not acted rapidly and effectively, but the government has done nothing and nothing is going to do. It highlights the clear awareness of the possibility of having a reliable, effective and guaranteed judicial system of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees. The government throws the towel to the ground by relegating the problem of emptying the jurisdictions of the courts, resigning itself to administer justice, and does not present any effective contingency plan for the recovery of procedural expectations. We know that the PRR provides money for the digital transition, and this great opportunity for the modernization of justice cannot be wasted. What is more, it is the only money from the PRR for justice, let's see how they will be used. Mr. Prime Minister, two diplomas proposed by the PSD were approved in the previous legislature to introduce control and supervision mechanisms in the electronic distribution of proceedings, in order to make it difficult to choose a particular judge for a particular process, in honor of the principle of the natural judge. The Government has not yet regulated these two laws, since the deadlines for doing so have long been exceeded. It is imperative to do so, despite the resistance of some forum professionals and attempts at interference in legislative power, in clear violation of the principle of the separation of powers, which this House cannot tolerate. The reform of justice is urgently needed, and the inertia of the past 100 years is clear. Moreover, in the speech given here and which lasted 29 minutes, Mr. Prime Minister devoted only one single sentence to him, which he said nothing. All seen, revised and weighted, we concluded that the Government Programme, globally analysed, is an amalgamation of programmatic proclamations, abstractions and common places - these in the way of diagnosis - without presenting concrete measures for the real problems of Portugal and the citizens. The government did not densify the electoral programme, as it was competing with it, nor did it take into account the brutal change that the war in Ukraine caused. It reminds me of a famous phrase: "It's a little bit small. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u168	The Bureau recorded two entries for requests for clarification to the honourable Member. Mr Perestrello of the Socialist Party has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Mónica Quintela, I confess that I was a little surprised by her speech on justice policy, but not as surprised as I was when I heard the regional intervention of the leader of your party, who must have liked so much the time when he was the mayor who came here to dispute with the President of the House of Port the protagonist on the regional problems of the airline. Maybe one day you want to be a candidate again! It surprised me because Mrs Deputies, who belongs to a party which has accused the Socialist Party and the Government of having presented a Government programme that undermines the electoral programme and does not bring to the country the structural reforms that he needs, with regard to the problems of the country, linked his intervention to only one, the problem of justice. Madam Member, I have to tell you that when I hear the Social Democratic Party talk about reforms, I always stand a little with my hair on my feet because, as far as I know, the Social Democratic Party, who stopped the country for five months and joined everything that moved in this Chamber to overthrow the government, had a surprise: it was overthrown by the voters. Following the vote there, the Social Democratic Party lost the elections, lost the leader and still set up a stuttering scene with votes in emigration, which caused him to lose even more one member, but it seems he didn't learn anything from what happened. [[Mónica Quintela PSD Member's laughs.]] About the country's problems, come here and don't say anything! He says there are no reforms, but I wonder if the reforms that Mrs Deputy misses are the last time the PSD was in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u170	Tell me who they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u171	The country has great problems—it has! — structural problems which have been brought about and to which answers exist. One of these problems is that of qualifications, and I ask: then, the extension of day care facilities to the whole universe of children is not a structural reform?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u172	Who would have proposed such a thing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u173	With regard to the problem of public debt, I ask: is the reduction of public debt not a structural reform? Oh, my God! Is the energy dependence on Portugal and other countries not a structural problem? So, fighting this energy dependence, promoting mechanisms of energy autonomy, isn't it a structural reform? Oh, my God! The reduction in taxes on fuels, on businesses, on families, so as to free up savings and investment capacity, is it not a structural reform? Oh, my God! What are structural reforms then? Are these the reforms that you made when you were in government? [[PSD protests.]] Is it the brutal increase in taxes? Is that a structural reform? Oh, my God! Is it cutting in wages and pensions? Is it to facilitate layoffs and disinvest public service? Is it to reduce investment in health to historical minimums, with problems that still cannot be resolved and, indeed, if you remember correctly, with disastrous results for the country? What they brought was the economic recession, it was more unemployment, it was much worse public services than those that existed. In fact, they brought nothing positive about the structural reforms your party did when it was in government. [[PSD protests.]] Madam Member, the PSD is historically a party that needs Portuguese democracy. It is good that the PSD is a good party to the opposition, who knows how to oppose, because the better the PSD as a party to the opposition will be the better the government, the better the government will be and the better it will rule.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u174	Mr. Deputies, you have already doubled your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u175	I will finish, Mr. President. What I ask you, Madam Member, is whether we are going to have a PSD available again to contribute to the construction of a better country, to the economic and social development that the country needs, or whether we are going to continue to have a PSD that is constantly placed as a letter outside the deck. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u176	The honourable Member has indicated that she will respond to requests for clarification as a whole so that I give the floor to Mr Bruno Nunes of the coming party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u177	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, other members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to talk specifically about justice, because the intervention before me was another copy-paste that was already written and, as I had no argument, it was all and something else, without justice in the middle. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u178	Mrs Mónica Quintela, in fact we follow the concern that the PSD has shown in its intervention in relation to the vacuum that appears in this Programme, but we consider it important to be able to clarify to us the measures that the PSD will present and the bills that will bring to this House, during this legislature, in particular so that we can optimize justice and make it work better, in order to avoid the existence of cases such as those that started in 2014 and have not yet entered into the investigation phase - I am speaking of José Socrates! — to try to understand whether this is also in your concerns. We would also like to know whether the PSD is willing to accompany the arrival in our decision and policy, described and commented by our President, to increase penalties, particularly for sexual crimes, crimes against security forces and crimes of corruption. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Finally, Mrs Mónica Quintela, I would also like to see if, in a possible constitutional review in the area of justice, it is the will of the PSD to make a structural change and to be next to the other seats on the right to fight for what would be more fair to the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u179	In reply, Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u180	Mr President, Mr Marcos Perestrello, you effectively brought questions that had nothing to do with the intervention I made. I spoke in garlic, answered lies. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u181	I find, Mr. Member, that about justice said: zero! Open your mouth, but zero! [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member asked whether the PSD is still a letter outside the deck, to which I reply that the PSD was never a letter outside the deck. You wanted to put justice as a letter out of the fight, which is what this government has done. [[PSD applause.]] Letter outside the deck is what they've done to justice. I get it! They have many touch stones, I understand. They have a lot of glass roofs, I get it! I understand that, indeed, it is a painful issue. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It hurts to talk about criminal investigations. It is difficult to speak in procedural moroness, in connection with proceedings, in administrative and tax courts. It hurts, and people, when they have stones in their shoes, don't like to answer them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u182	I thought it was curious and thank you, but I cannot tell you that you asked questions, because the question you asked, from a parliamentary point of view, is a minority and, even I tell you, it is wrong for you. You know? Oh, my God! He's sick. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u183	I should have asked questions, because the debate must be high and I wanted to answer questions. Come talk about what has been suffocated, about the results and whether the leader is or is not ill. [[It hurts!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u184	But do you know what else, sir? The acts remain with those who practice them. He also told me of a very curious thing, to which I answer the following: it is necessary to have a can, a lot of can. How dare you come to talk about the reforms that the PSD has made or has been forced to pay off? Do you know what the PSD error was? I will tell you: when the Teixeira dos Santos Minister came to television saying that it was necessary to call the troika and the International Monetary Fund, we should have left public servants and everyone would not receive wages, one month, two months. Listen: They've learned! [[PSD applause.]] She was a little girl! He learned the people and learned the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] But no, the PSD came to cover and then we had a Prime Minister... [[PS protests.]] Mr. President, if I can continue, thank you. [[PS protests.]] I'm talking, I'm talking! You think you're talking and I'm not talking? That's what I was missing. No one tells me to shut up. You're wrong, while I have time, I'm talking. Listen: It's getting bad, Mr. Deputy, it's getting bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u185	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet and let us hear the speaker. I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Deputy, it starts wrong. Don't think that, because they had an absolute majority, I'm told to shut up. You're right wrong. The PSD has ruled in an emergency situation, after the Socialist Party — as usual — is panic! — have buried the country. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD ruled with a troika program negotiated by Socrates. Do you know who it is? Oh, my God! It is that your Secretary-General, Prime Minister, who is to be judged. These were the policies the PSD had to implement. That was it, Mr. Deputies. [[PS Member Protests Marcos Perestrello.]] Look, who's going to war gives and takes! I'm used to it. That's the way it is, who goes to war gives and takes. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] He said that with the PSD government we had the worst services, but I say: you have no tin, you have a whole barrel! [[PSD and CH Deputies Rice.]] It's not a can, it's a huge can. You know why? Because today we actually have the greatest tax burden of all time and the worst services. [[PSD applause.]] Get into a hospital without telling who he is, and you'll see what happens to him. Or try an action in an administrative court. If you have the chance to go on the highway and a boar appears to you, you'll get the damage, because it's only relieved, if it's 20 years from now. Sir, before you open your mouth, learn what you're going to say. I didn't say anything about justice. [[PSD applause.]] So, since you didn't ask me anything... I understand, you know nothing about justice. Intervention is technical, but people are supposed to be prepared to respond to things. [[PS protests.]] I am sorry you haven't asked the necessary questions. [[PSD applause.]] About the future of the PSD, I don't think they're accounts of your rosary, but I'm telling you this: the PSD here will always have been, is and will continue to be. And you know what, sir? Life taught me that there are more tides than sailors and we must have democratic humility, because we often spit into heaven and fall upon ourselves. So let's see, sir, and I've answered too much. Indeed, for what I have said, I have already said too much, I have spent a lot of time. [[PS protests.]] Mr Bruno Nunes, I would like to thank you for your intervention, which was about justice, the issues you raised and the doubts you raised. The PSD has presented a broad programme for justice reform and that is what it wants. Justice has been practically immutable since 25 April and reform is required. The reason why the PSD has fought is for a cross-cutting reform, particularly in the area of prison law with the inherent resocialization, because the purpose of the penalties refers us not only to general and special prevention, but also to social reintegration, and this has not happened. Freeing prisoners only because one cannot provide a solution to prison establishments seems to me to be a bad policy, because the need for sanctions and punishment is not being met, and that seems wrong to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u188	We have proposals for all areas. It is a broad reform programme and I have just said, for example, that it is essential that at least two more central administrative courts — relations — be established so that the processes in the higher courts can go. Also in criminal investigation, in civil proceedings, in the executive process, in the courts of commerce, in the courts of families and minors — now they call themselves judgments — it is indeed necessary to intervene. We have a lot of action and I will be happy to send you our electoral programme, where they are all and even quite dense. As far as we are concerned, whether the PSD is willing to increase the penalties, as far as sexual crimes are concerned, I must tell you that they are absolutely abject. We all agree. Neither do animals violate, nor do animals practice this, so it is an absolutely abject crime. Our Criminal Code has a system that obeys certain values and legal goods, so when we have a maximum prison sentence of 25 years, which is for the right to life, we must realize whether there is harmony in the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u189	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u190	There must be harmony and sexual crimes have been the subject of the legislator's attention. As far as security forces are concerned, let me tell you that there has been a mistake, even about those incidents that have occurred recently in a hospital, where some agents — I think they were from the PSP — were barbaricly beaten, something without forgiveness, I think in the Family. The issue of the frame was not sufficiently high in relation to minimum and maximum, and not a public crime, but I must tell you that it refers directly to the qualifications of Article 132. that of the Criminal Code and which is a public crime. Therefore, he no longer needs a complaint and also has the lifting of the penalty.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u191	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u192	I shall conclude, Mr President. On corruption, I do not know whether the increases in penalties that occurred during the last Legislative Session were accompanied by the anti-corruption strategy and the proposals we have put forward. We must realize that crimes are judged in a legal cluster, so often penalties increase. On our availability, the PSD is always available to vote favourably what it believes is consistent with the humanist values of a personalist, social-democrat and deeply humanist party. Within this philosophy, of course, the PSD will vote on any proposal that completely falls into its programmatic principles. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u193	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u194	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government mandate that is about to start takes place in a context in which several factors, negative and positive are intertwined, which makes the moment we probably live in the most demanding and challenging of our democratic history. In spite of the tremendous impact of the sovereign debt crisis, the effects of which, despite the recovery of income and the strong growth of the economy and employment, have not completely dissipated, we have been confronted with the COVID-19 pandemic, to which we respond with denode and success, and, still pending this, we are faced with the unimaginable scenario of war in Europe, caused by the Russian aggressor, and whose parade of horrors we witness daily, incredulous, outraged and powerless. The positive counterpoints lie in the fact that the Portuguese people have previously granted conditions of governance to the country and have made available a considerable set of financial resources. I would therefore like to emphasize a dimension of the Government's programme which, of course, is at risk of being underestimated. I am referring to the European dimension that crosses it horizontally, and the unfortunate historical circumstances that we live confirm how successful the vision of Mário Soares has been for almost 50 years and which we have been carrying out since then. Without this dimension, the Government's programme under discussion would certainly be very different. And it would be - even more so, not the credibility of Portugal carried out in the European and international institutions in recent years, whose main merit is undoubtedly the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. The rise of the Minister of Finance to the Presidency of the Eurogroup and the role played by Portugal in the design of the new architecture of the funds are the best proof than I have just said. Who would believe it possible to compromise in the Council, as it was achieved in 2020, on the Plurianual Financial Framework and the Next Generation EU, including the recognition of the principle of debt mutualization, which Portugal always defended, even when it was an objective considered unattainable by all observers? We are discussing this Government Programme because this route has been traced, and it has been tracked with the relevant contribution of our country on the European stage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Most notably in the European Council, it is true, but also in the European Parliament and in the various Council formations that have regulated the various instruments for the next programming period, which will cover the temporal universe—at least—of the government and of the next one. As far as Portugal's role in the closure of the architecture of the funds is concerned, let me highlight the final commitment to reforming the common agricultural policy, the negotiation of which had been dragged for more than three years and was closed under the Portuguese Presidency of the Council in the first half of 2021. This Government programme responds to the great challenges of our time, to which, in addition to the tormenting conjuncural issues, the demographic problem, climate change, decarbonisation, energy, environmental sustainability and its reconciliation with economic competitiveness and the need to ensure adequate levels of self-supply and balance of the agri-food trade balance, or qualifications, or territorial cohesion. The State budgets for 2022 and 2023, which we will discuss next and so on, will give concrete expression to these objectives, which is largely due to the financial resources that will be given to us by the European Union and which will achieve values that few would earlier venture to predict. But its implementation is also, and essentially, due to the way in which the various programmes and measures are implemented: with rigor and demand, of course, because money from European and national taxpayers is concerned, and also with transparency, monitoring and supervision, but, above all, in such a simplified and speedy manner as possible, as well as referred to in the Government Programme and I quote: 'less bureaucracy and more transparency, through the creation of a 'Simple' for European funds. Do not keep on seeking. ” The list of measures recommended by the Programme on this subject deserves full support from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. We are fully aware of the difficulties that will need to be overcome in order to meet these objectives, given the limited time available and taking into account that the current Portugal 2020, the new Plural Financial Framework — Portugal 2030 — and the Recovery and Resilience Plan will be implemented at the same time. However, we are convinced that who has been capable of the performance we have known in the past six years and that the Portuguese recognized on 30 January last will meet the challenges of the future, even greater than the constraints and uncertainties of the present. Finally, on an issue which is the exclusive competence of the Government, it deserves a word of appreciation from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, referring to the placement of European affairs in the right place of the structure of the Government. It is a much more than symbolic fact and a clearly revealing sign of Portugal's commitment and confidence in the European project. If there were no other reasons, those I have just exposed would be more than enough to ensure the unequivocal support of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u195	The Bureau shall record two entries to request clarification from the honourable Member, who shall, I presume, wish to answer together. Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Czech Republic, has the floor, then, to make his request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u196	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, in fact, in this speech, in this political intervention, we see Europe, a lot of Europe. The programming instruments for the architecture of the funds have had a weak implementation of around 60 %. These very weak financial reinforcements may even jeopardise Portuguese crops, since there are now farmers concerned about their crops because they do not know whether or not they can plant because of production costs. We have a huge increase in production costs, from electricity to green gas oil, with fully record prices, and farmers do not know whether or not they can water because we still live a dry season. There is no serious drought fighting in the Government Programme, which is absent and today is the great « elephant in the room » in this House. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The drought did not disappear with the war and, with the very high production costs and without water, many crops cannot be made. As you well know, funds cannot be given to farmers if they do not sow and at the moment farmers do not know if they will sow. With regard to this enormous presence of Europe, one can also see the friendship that Mr. Prime Minister is making with Europe, which he has given up on the speech of Mr. President of the Republic and which, of course, he is also a member of this Chamber. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u197	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, continues to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos, just as the Liberal Initiative has new Members, with new ideas, Mr Prime Minister also has new folders, unfortunately without any new ideas, so he withdraws from the Programme. But one of them, on European affairs, is a subject that I am grateful for having brought and on which I would like to ask you three questions. The first question is about war. In the Government's programme it is necessary to get to almost page 50 to talk about war, and the honourable Member has also mentioned it very little. Mr Prime Minister had promised certificates of immediate residence, but unfortunately with the PS the only immediate thing is the collection of taxes, because of the 30,000 refugees we have, 70% have not yet certified and cannot work because of the slowness of the state. I would like to ask the honourable Member whether he approves a Government programme which does not respond to the refugee crisis which currently afflicts Europe, including Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u200	Secondly, I am sorry, Mr, but, speaking about European matters, we have to talk about energy. Portugal is a country where many people still need cars to work, more than 50% of what we pay are taxes and the only one with the full deposit is the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u201	It's the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u202	If we look at the directive, the government can lower the ISP from gasoline up to 27 cents. They're not mixes of 1 or 2 cents, as you've done. That's 27 cents! Minister, I am sorry, but do not take refuge in Europe to avoid what you can do in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u204	I would like to ask the honourable Member whether or not the PS will propose a reduction of 27 cents or whether, at least within a few weeks, it will approve our proposal for a reduction of 27 cents in the petrol ISP. Thirdly, and very quickly, to conclude, Mr President, with regard to European funds, which you also mentioned, I find in the Government Programme an idea that speaks of the adoption of European fund management instruments based on a blockchain solution, which is an idea that interests me. I would like you to explain this idea to me, what the government is going to do, or whether it is just a cosmetic measure « to see ». [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u205	To reply, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u206	Mr President, with regard to Mr Pedro Frazão, what you have just mentioned is the most complete proof of how important it is and is to Portugal that you are a Member State of the European Union, particularly in the agricultural sector. Our agriculture is today a competitive, respected agriculture, with some sectors with a clearly exported vocation, when we had, in much of the country 35 years ago, an almost medieval agriculture. This is due to the continued effort and a good generic application of the Community funds throughout this period,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u207	You should do more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u208	... in particular, I said, in an ambitious stream plan, through the increasingly efficient use of water, which allows in situations like this, in the so-called river perimeters, there is no problem. Precisely in the South, where water availability difficulties were traditionally greater, the Alqueva is of the dams that currently record higher storage volume and where it is not at least concerned the agricultural year. Fortunately, recent rains have allowed the soil moisture situation to be restored for permanent crops, for cereals, for pastures, for vineyards, for orchards and, therefore, the drought spectrum is relatively relieved. The set of measures that the Government has taken, which Mr Prime Minister has largely specified in his initial speech, demonstrates the importance that the Government, with the support of the Community funds, is responding to situations that are abnormal like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u209	That's not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u210	Mr Bernardo Blanco, from the IL, I believe that his intervention confirmed the importance of our European choice. When it comes to the question of war, this unacceptable and unacceptable war that we are witnessing, I must say that it has contributed to the European Union acting in a united, effective and rapid manner, as it probably had not happened in any other circumstance since its foundation. What is being done in harmonising the response in terms of sanctions, humanitarian aid, including military aid, is the unequivocal demonstration that without the European Union, of course, Ukraine would have been, for a long time now — much more than 40 days or at least 40 days ago — a territory of Russia. The same with regard to the response to the refugee crisis. Portugal has already welcomed us the other day in the press. I believe that more than 25,000 refugees...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u211	He welcomed 27 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u212	Yes, 27,000. We have demonstrated incredible solidarity, only comparable to the feeling that Portuguese society has experienced in an abnormal situation, obviously on another scale, in the case of Timor. Therefore, the overall response that the European Union has given was exemplary. It is unfortunate that I did not give it in other circumstances, to other refugees, but it is worth more late than ever and, I am sure, from now on we will look at refugees in a completely different way than we have looked at here. The same applies, of course, to the issues you referred to on energy. Mr Prime Minister also announced in great detail the package of measures to support the transport sector and his recent efforts are known, particularly in the Iberian area, so that the price of fuels can be comportable to citizens and, above all, to ensure the continuation of economic activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u213	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Parliament cannot abdicate from voting on a Government Programme, but when what they present to us is not a Government Programme, but rather some lines of propaganda, it is impossible to do any scrutiny. António Costa has skillfully done what he knows how to do best: he has left the country for a few days thinking about the Government's Programme, he has left the opposition to criticize the Government's Programme and today he announces measures that — stop! — they are not in the Government Programme. It is the usual of the Socialist Party, wanting to leave in the closet what has to stay in the closet instead of presenting to the Portuguese. But today we had a Prime Minister who was a real actor in this Parliament. See what Antonio Costa said in the Portuguese Parliament in 2022, and I quote for future memory: "Thank God, we have turned back to austerity. Do not keep on seeking. ” One day history will ask how a country that has had the greatest tax burden of ever can say that it has returned to austerity. Yes, Prime Minister, it is the Portuguese who pay not only the salaries of Members, such as those of their Government, such as the cars of their government and all who are living in the Portuguese state. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's what costs a lot in Portugal! It is that the Portuguese feel they pay, with a huge sacrifice, taxed to support customers who don't end up and those who don't want to do anything. Therefore, a Prime Minister who says that we end austerity can only be one of two things: a minister of propaganda or a minister who does not live in the country in which we all have to live. But today Antonio Costa has gone further and said that the socialist government has brought us the famous growth and not the devil. It is curious that a Prime Minister speaks of growth when we were overcome by countries that had a curtain to fall on them recently and the weight of communism to fall on them. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Is this the country they want for Portugal, a country that lets itself go beyond the countries of East? Oh, my God! If I were you, Prime Minister, when I came to this Parliament, he would say: 'Excuse me! Sorry for the government's brutal incompetence that brought us here. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u216	If it were you, he would come to Europe and say: "Excuse me! Forgive me for the brutal incompetence that has left us in the tail of Europe. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is very, very nice to hear socialist and communists on this matter. Soon we will have the celebrations of 25 April, such as the minister diligently organized for 5000 € per month. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] And on these celebrations of 25 April, which will soon be, the Portuguese have to know this: in the human development index, in 1975, Portugal was in the 23. position ; in 2019, it is in 38. the position. That is the reality that hurts and that many do not want to see. It is the reality of a country that has not moved forward, a country that has returned and a country that, with decades of socialism, continues to stand back and impoverish. Tell us how we are far behind that in 1975! [[Congrats from the CH.]] And Mr. Prime Minister can say not with his head, but it's true. He came here today to welcome the election of a Luso-descendant Member and it is beautiful to see. What's not nice to see is the story behind this deputy's election. The shame and humiliation of our compatriots out there, who once again did not receive ballots, who once again failed to vote in consulates, who once again had been tricked behind tacks, because there are two parties that have not been able to hold decent elections for a country that has millions, millions and millions to live out there, who are our emigrants. That's what it was like to say here today instead of saying hello to an MP! [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why, Prime Minister, in this debate on the Government's programme I will leave you a few questions that I would really like to answer, because this is a Parliament and not the Big Brother. [[Oh, yes, yes!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u217	Take it easy! It was good to answer about whether or not you are going to accept a minimum pension in Portugal, because when you go to Europe and take pride in the country that has certainly hidden your European colleagues who have pensioners to receive 219 € per month. When you go to the European Council you certainly ignore that we have firemen and ex-policies to receive just over 200 € per month. I ask you whether or not the Socialist Party will accept a minimum pension that ultimately gives these people dignity. I'm addressing the ex-combatants today. Yes, to those who fought to make this country today what it is. They're half a million, still alive, with their families. This Parliament has never given them dignity and had to fight outside this Parliament to have a minimum of dignity. I ask you, Prime Minister, whether it is with this absolute majority that will finally give dignity to some ex-combatants who, as I saw in election campaign, live on the street or in a tent, right here in Lisbon. That's what a Prime Minister should do! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I ask you if you are finally going to end this state of expropriation with entrepreneurs, owners and all those who have small businesses. This is the country that most expropriates who works and who invests. Who is seeing us, from owners, restoration, services, all of them, know what I am talking about: a government that pulls and pulls out to distribute first by its customers and then by those who live on account of state subsidies. Whoever is listening to us knows well what I'm talking about, because every day he feels the weight of a state that doesn't want to increase, the weight of taxes that don't stop tripleting and the weight of an income that doesn't stop getting worse. This is the opportunity for the Socialist Prime Minister to finally give these people dignity. I do not want to finish this speech, Prime Minister, without looking at a real problem that we are living today. Let us go or not finish — and I apologize to Mr President and the whole House for the expression — with this huge clown that we are all wearing masks when most of the countries of Europe have already ended this? Are we going to continue, here, pretending we're all fine and we're all masked? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Finally, I could not finish this speech without noting the greatest grace this afternoon. Mr. Luís Capoulas Santos said that the PS is here to fulfill his election promises. I quote the Prime Minister : « The tolls are even to finish in the Algarve. It was six years ago! Six years and we still carry on tolls in the Algarve. If you're all doing it like this, Prime Minister, then forget to make promises and tell the Portuguese what you're really going to do. This is a question that remains for the Socialist Party and for all those who hear us at home today and feel the weight of interiority and difficulty in a country at two speeds. Are we going to have the courage to finish the tolls in Portugal? Are we going to have the courage to return the dignity to the interior of the country? Are we going to say or not that there are no Portuguese first and second? It is not tomorrow nor today nor after, now is the time to give Portugal dignity. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u218	Mr President, you have a request for clarification from Mr Bernardo Blanco of the Liberal Initiative to whom I call.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u219	Mr President, Mr Ventura, today I have heard Mr Ventura talk about fuels—and well, we also advocate this reduction in the ISP—but I have not heard Mr Ventura speak here today, like Mr Prime Minister, about the TAP, the largest investment the government has made in recent years. And this TAP would lead to numerous reductions in ISPs — countless! That is why the question is simple: is it going to change the position or not and vote in favour of the proposal for the privatisation of the TAP that the Liberal Initiative will propose, or will it, for example, be on the side of the Block and the CFP in this matter, to defend nationalization? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u220	To reply, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u221	Mr President, Mr President, on this subject, the arrival was very clear in the election campaign: we will not follow a solution that is of total and absolute destruction or nationalization of the TAP and, therefore, we want to continue to have a flag company that serves the Portuguese people. There is one thing from the Arrival that will never have: The Arrival does not defend savage privatizations or defend the dismissal of hundreds or thousands of workers from an airline. [[Congrats from the CH.]] No, Mr. Deputies, the arrival does not forget that Portugal has a geostrategic position in the world that requires contact with its communities, with its emigrant communities, that in many places do not have an airline that takes its family at Christmas, Easter...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u223	... and in many moments of his history, and that was what was important for the Liberal Initiative to say. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We want less state, Mr. Member, but we want no less state at the expense of the poorest and those who are always sacrificing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u225	... we want less political clientele, we want less subsidies-dependent, we do not want a state that ends with essential services and that tells its communities outside: « Do as they can, save themselves as they can and if there are no planes to travel come by car, train, even if they live as many kilometres from Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” No, for us, communities are really important; for us, it is important that they have an air route and it is important that Portugal ensure that route. But that is one thing and another is the plan of absolute destruction that was presented by Minister Pedro Nuno Santos. So there is not only the position of the Left Block and the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Between the Block and the Liberal Initiative there is a world of options, which I invite you to accompany,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u226	And what is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u227	...on behalf of the Portuguese who are in the communities. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u228	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, I give the floor to Mr Rui Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u229	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In the last few days a part of the country has been discussing whether Mr. Prime Minister will continue after 2024 in the performance of his duties or a withdrawal will be made to Brussels. I must tell you, Mr Prime Minister, that this is a matter which, above all, concerns you and the electorate who trusted you. For us, it is essential to make a balance sheet of what your six years of governance are, to try to look forward and see what the indications are, in particular, on the basis of the Government Programme, on what is coming. Let us look, then, quickly, at the last six years. It is fair to acknowledge, Mr. Prime Minister, that he has reached a number of records. You had the biggest government of democracy. It's a record, Prime Minister! You were the tax clerk. It's a record, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u230	All right! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u231	You have been the record of the Portuguese on the waiting list for surgery — 200 000 people are waiting for surgery in Portugal today. You are a recordr of the Portuguese who do not have a family doctor—they are almost 1, 2 million, when they were 750 000 at the beginning of 2016. You are also the youth unemployment recordr — we recently had 24% of young people without employment and are now 20%.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u232	He went down, didn't he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u233	And you are the Prime Minister who has also seen four European Union countries go beyond Portugal in terms of wealth. It's a record, Prime Minister. And one more thing: since you decided to leave Brussels in 2024, you will probably still see Romania going beyond Portugal because of its policies. It's a record, Prime Minister! [[Applause from the IL.]] And if for the last six years the picture is this, the indications for the future are not better. Your Government and your Government Programme are more of the same and more of the same than what the country needs. Let us look at just two or three examples for your government caste. We have fragile ministers: Minister Cravinho could not continue in the defence, he went on to foreign affairs, even now, without European affairs; Minister Medina is weakened by all the circumstances surrounding the end of his term in the City Hall of Lisbon. I had not planned to mention this, but Mr Pedro Adam and Silva is here, who, a few hours before it was known that he would be part of the government, said that on 25 November the Portuguese were divided. You're wrong, Minister! He's wrong! [[Applause from the IL.]] November 25 is the date when all Portuguese who love democracy are united. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]] And if this is the picture with regard to the government cast, things don't improve when we look at the Government Programme. I shall also mention three examples here. First, growth. Portugal will be of the last European countries to recover the levels of wealth it had before the troika. It's another record, Prime Minister. After the decline of the PRR money, growth will again be modest. When Mr. Prime Minister, in 2024, is considering whether he is still in government or retired to Brussels,... [[PS protests.]] ... then we will enter a new phase of modest growth which will not allow convergence with the European Union. And this is because Mr Prime Minister does not take the only measure that would be able to promote growth in Portugal: the actual low taxes. In the Government Programme, we will continue to have IRS with one of the highest rates in the European Union and OECD. And in the IRS the proposal is two more steps, more complexity, more bureaucracy, more a record. [[PS protests.]] Portugal is once again the country that will have more steps in the European Union. And some savings planned with these steps at some levels of income will be immediately compensated for indirect taxes, as we have seen, for example, of fuel taxes. What is not held at the source is delivered the following day, double, into the petrol pump. [[Applause from the IL.]] Second, health. And here I am going to give the floor to Prof. Adalberto Campos Fernandes — I think that Mr. Prime Minister will know him, he was his Minister of Health until 2019. Prof. Adalberto Campos Fernandes, with regard to users, states: « There are no conditions for the National Health Service to respond to all needs. It is necessary to ensure complementarity between SNS, social response and private response. Do not keep on seeking. ” Users have the constitutional right to health and this right, as we have seen with the waiting lists and with the absence of a family doctor, is being denied to them by ideological blindness. [[Applause from the IL.]] We go to human resources in health, once again according to Prof. Adalberto Campos Fernandes: « There is no useful solution that passes through arbitrary retentions, nor through voluntary or coercive dedications. » Mr. Prime Minister ventures to have health without doctors, in the same way that he may have education without teachers and, now, if he persists in current policies, a farming without farmers. Prof. Adalberto Campos Fernandes concludes: «It is necessary to put the interests of the patients at the heart of the political decision», and that is what we say, it is only done with freedom of choice. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr Prime Minister, this programme condemns the country to live below its possibilities. It doesn't take advantage of the country's potential. In the coming years, Mr. Prime Minister will eventually be able to decide whether he meets the mandate or retires to Brussels,... [[PS protests.]] ... but I assure you one thing: we will be here, the bench of the Liberal Initiative will always be here to combat its policies of impoverishment, because, unlike you, that you will be able to choose Portugal or Brussels, young Portuguese will have no choice but to continue to emigrate to find better living conditions. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u234	Mr President, the Bureau has two entries for requests for clarification. I assume you're answering them in a block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u235	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u236	I therefore call on Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party to make his request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Rocha, about your comments, finally, your comments, let us not comment because this is not the place, this is a debate about the Government's programme, about methods and objectives for the country. That is the focus, and that is what the Portuguese are waiting for from this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I wanted to leave you two notes and two questions on two important topics that you have focused on. On the one hand, the question of the tax burden. In fact, now I cannot but comment: 'young employment record'? Oh, my God! If we look at the numbers, « record» is the largest number and the largest number was in 2012, it is not in this period of governance, and it is interesting that it focuses precisely on the number of young unemployed who have fallen. Therefore, if you want to attack the government with figures that show that young unemployment has effectively decreased, I do not know whether this will be the most effective strategy to reveal the failure of the policies of the current and previous governments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the two areas on which I wanted to leave you questions are taxation and choice, which is an important aspect that the Liberal Initiative values. As for the tax burden, I will not be explaining again the importance of the distinction between tax burden and increased capacity to have contributions precisely because economic activity is increasing, and that is a factor that should be emphasized as positive. If we have more contributions to social security, if we have more tax revenue collection is because, effectively, at this time, the economy is growing and that is a factor that should be valued and not presented, as systematically is brought to these debates, in an enviessed way. But the question I wanted to ask you is precisely about progressiveness. In fact, it is complex, but quality democracy is complex, quality democracy presupposes that in order to achieve fiscal justice it is necessary to make an effort to be fair in the distribution of charges for all and the mantra of the Liberal Initiative is flat tax, the wage to treat equally what is not equal. Finally, surely Mr. Minister of Culture, Pedro Adam and Silva, is better at using surfing analogies, but the "mar be flat" means that the sea has no waves and has no capacity to take anyone anywhere, and a flat tax as the Liberal Initiative brings us precisely this: the complete calm that does not bring any advantage to the tax system, only increases the injustices and makes it difficult for us to have the ability, which, fortunately, we have come to have with the increase of the steps, not to tax those who do not need us, precisely by taxing those who have this capacity and who are able to contribute to the collective whole. [[P.S.'s applause.]] contrary to what has been said here — there was an analogy, in an earlier intervention, in which we spoke in the state, which is a good newspaper in Brazil — the « state», indeed, is not what threatens us at any time. The state was the protection that, in the decisive and harsh moments that we had to face, guaranteed those who need access to health and cannot afford it, open this door when it is closed. The State guarantees those who would have no other possibility of attending schools, which are the social elevator, it opens this door and enables the country to move forward, move forward, invest, qualify and bet on innovation and research. And for all this we must ensure that the State is funded and funded fairly. Here we go back to the point where systematically trying to deceive those people who can convince themselves that they would benefit immediately, for themselves, by paying less taxes, in fact they would not have that benefit but, yes, the consequences of a country that does not have the ability to invest, to bet on infrastructures and everything that makes the economy grow. I shall end precisely with the question of choice, which is presented as a fundamental issue for the Liberal Initiative: we must be free to choose. Now, in this country, everyone is free to choose. They are free to choose their schools, they are free to have their options in health care. What cannot be expected is that others are forced to pay for the choices that they make, when the State clearly offers answers in fundamental matters such as social protection, education or health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u238	In order to make a request for clarification, Mr Filipe Melo of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u239	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, other members of the Government, Mr. Members, briefly, asked the Liberal Initiative Member if he followed up with the proposal of the IMI suspension (municipal property tax) for buildings up to €300 000 and if he also agreed with the Arrival when we defend that the end, gradually and progressively, with the IMI, which is so damaging to the owners. This is a very direct and very simple question. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Now, Mr President, the second question is also to agree with the gradual term of the IMI rate, which seriously harms the owners. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask you, after listening carefully to your statement and the criticisms you have made to the Government Programme, which you deserve, whether you will be accompanying the Arrival in the vote on the motion for rejection of the Government Programme, or whether you will follow Mr Rui Rio's lamentable stance. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u240	To reply, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u241	Mr President, I would like to begin by answering the honourable Member's question, i.e. at the end. I understand the anxiety and curiosity, but the answer of the Liberal Initiative will be given tomorrow, regarding the position regarding the motion presented by the Arrival. Regarding questions about the IMI, I am forgiven by the Assembly of the Republic for freedom of expression, but IMI is probably one of the most stupid taxes in the world and therefore... [[Applause from the IL.]] ...I would say that probably what makes sense is not even talking about suspension or reduction but we will clearly discuss what meaning it makes the IMI stay. Therefore, we are available for this conversation and to present solutions on this subject as well. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, yes, we will continue to insist on freedom of choice, because what we have today is increasingly degraded health from the point of view of the SNS, for the poor and disadvantaged and we do not admit it. And that is why, honourable Member, more and more Portuguese are obliged to have private insurance because the National Health Service is not in a position to respond to their needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u243	With regard to all these issues of the tax burden, our position is clear, Mr President. The only way for Portugal to grow is to reduce the burden, the tax burden on the ability of Portuguese, families and businesses to invest — and Portugal needs a lot of investment — to save — and Portugal needs a lot of savings — and to consume according to its preferences. Moreover, when we are talking about corporate taxes, this is also the only way of being interesting, appealing to foreign investment, which brings, as you know, many benefits to the country, brings a lot of innovation and also brings few possible solutions so that the average Portuguese salaries can finally begin to rise, because it is unacceptable, Mr. Depute, that we are in a country where the average wage is 1300 euros gross. That is not admissible, sir! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u244	This concludes the first speeches of the parliamentary groups and also this session. Tomorrow we will continue the government programme debate and the first intervention will compete with the government. Before the end of the sitting, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, Secretary of the Bureau, to announce to the ladies and gentlemen. Members who were present, by video conference, at the sitting. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for reasons of prophylactic isolation, were present at the session, by video conference, the MPs Alexandra Tavares de Moura and Cristina Mendes da Silva, PS, Bruno Coimbra, PSD, and Alma Rivera, PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-07.u246	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late and until tomorrow at 10 a.m. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 36 minutes.]]
