ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u1	Mr President of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the governments, other Authorities, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, good April 25 to all. The Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLVIII Anniversary of the Revolution of 25 April 1974 is open. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u2	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. and Members of the Government, Excellencies, dignitaries, Dear and Dear Members of Parliament and Members of the Assembly of the Republic : Let us think of a man born in 1929. He spent his first childhood, in his village, in dictatorship; he was taught the first letters, but no more, in dictatorship; he was an apprentice of mechanical tournament, in dictatorship; he married, in dictatorship; he had two sons, in dictatorship; he was sent to dictatorship. He came to the capital, he was a driver of garbage trucks, of squares, of cars of bank administrators, all in dictatorship; he married again, he had three more children, including this, in dictatorship. Only after all this, when I was not too old for today, did I first see what for many other Western European countries was already normal, and for the first time, I saw democracy. Let us imagine a woman, born in 1931, in the same village, with the same constraints at departure, and still others, at a time when one of the few ways out for her life would be created to serve. To see your country reach as many days of democracy as it had of dictatorship it needed to reach 91 years, which, fortunately, did. This is not my history, this is our history, the history of decades of compression of human potential, because that is what a dictatorship is, in addition to the repression of civic and political freedoms; the history of millions of people, Portuguese and Portuguese, and many and many in the former colonies, who were not all that they could be. And, therefore, from 25 April onwards, our history is not only the history of a regime of civic and political freedoms, if that were little, it is not only the history of pluralism, if that was little, that it is not, and it is much, it is the history of freedom, but of everything we can do with it, because the fight for freedom and the fight for equality are the same struggle. They are not just the struggle, as if it were little, for correcting injustice, they are the struggle to ensure that everyone, everyone common, everywhere, can be entitled to a longer, more filled life, with more possibilities, with more potential realized, precisely what has been lacking to so many people in our country, for decades and even centuries. It is not by chance that, as soon as possible, the first thing that millions of parents and mothers in our country did was put their children and daughters to study as far as they and they wanted. Even today – do the experiment – now that they are grandparents and grandparents, and even great-grandparents, ask them what gives them the most pride and they will hear: the granddaughter who finished the master and wants to do the doctorate, the grandson who is doing Erasmus. It is that the democracy they built, which we built, on 25 April, finally represented a possibility of access to education for all on a scale and in a way that had never existed in the history of almost 900 years of this country. Our duty before the 25th of April is what we do for ourselves, in gratitude to 25th of April, for our future and for our country, with the civic and political freedoms, with the National Health Service (SNS), which ensures that no one needs to fear going bankrupt only because he is sick. Access to public education is a fundamental part of the way in which we have been able to have, for 48 years, only normality for other countries: the preconditions for a dynamic society and dignity, the basis from which futures are built. On 25 April 1974 we began with a dictatorship of decades; as the day advanced it was clear that there would be no other path but democracy. We came up with a censorship system, which also had decades and even a history of centuries in our country; in the afternoon they were already going out newspapers saying « it was not targeted by any censorship commission». We came to terms with an hated political police, which held power over the simplest aspects of our civic life, and the people on the streets made it clear that they would admit nothing but the extinction of this political police. April 25th was a day worth decades. He stopped with political prisoners in jail and ended with the notion that they, together, in jails, decided that they either went out together or didn't go out. Finally, on April 25, 1974, we were in the dawn of a 13-year-old colonial war, but the day ended knowing that she had to end. And then, let's think a little bit, April 25 didn't apply for just decades, it was worth it for centuries, because it represented the end of the imperial and colonial cycle and opened the way for a European cycle to begin, which means a tilting of our history so decisive that I think it has not yet been really assimilated. of the three Ds of democracy, development and decolonization, it is sometimes thought that the latter was the immediateest to be accomplished, but if we think that the abandonment of colonial structures means treating everyone with the same respect and dignity and, for the country, finding a new place in Europe and in the world, we will soon realize that, like the other two Ds, it is a long task that is still being accomplished. The road that opens in front of Portugal is now very different from that which we used to travel for centuries, and still well. Time doesn't go back. From now on we have only the appreciation of people, knowledge and territory as keys to our future. And nothing is as important as deepening our democracy, debating and choosing a new model of development for our country and carrying it out, finding our place in the world of global citizenship. That is what we owe on 25 April; now is the time to return. The gratitude we have for it is the best pledge for our collective future. [[PSP, PAN, PSD and BE José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u3	For an intervention, on behalf of the Party Persons-Animal-Nature, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u4	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Illustre Entities, High Authorities and Distinguished Guests, Mrs. Members: After an unprecedented health and socio-economic crisis, the war in Ukraine reminded us that human rights, peace, security and democracy cannot be given as acquired. And today's date is not a mere evocative date, indeed, it will never be. in these 48 years of the April Revolution we could talk about being a country that lives in climate bankruptcy, since it takes two planets to withstand the levels of production and consumption, even when the sun, the wind and the oceans can be the solution and assign a new meaning to freedom, guaranteeing our energy autonomy, together with the decarbonization of the economy that our country and the world have to do. We could talk about a country where 2 million people live in energy poverty — they don't even have money to warm up their homes — and more than 8,000 people live in homeless situations; or we could talk about the difficulty of access to housing by young people. The same country that has wide hands to finance the losses of the bank and does nothing to prevent the loss of many billions of euros to tax havens or corruption. We could also talk about a country that gives more public money to the hunting baronate or the torture and cruelty of the tourists than to the fight against abandonment and ill-treatment and for the protection and animal welfare. But today we want to talk to you about the inequality that still persists, we want to talk to you about women, adapting here the words of Belarusian writer Svetlana Aleksievitch, refugee of the Lukashenko regime, counterpart of Putin, and telling you that April still has no face as a woman. Despite all the advances and achievements that were brought by the Revolution and that broke with a dictatorship that accused those who, like Natalia Correia or the three Marias, dared to criticize the prevailing social morals, April still has no face as a woman, when, every day, more than 50 women are victims of domestic violence; when we have a system and a justice that are marked by a toxic machismo, which systematically excuses the aggressor; or a slow justice, in which women end up losing their own lives or seeing their dreams and expectations of life destroyed. April has not yet a woman's face, when sexual crimes do not have a limitation period capable of respecting the emotions and time of each victim or when their consequences are only fines or suspended penalties. April has not yet a woman's face, when there are more than 6500 women and girls who have been victims of female genital mutilation in our country. And April does not have a woman's face when women have to work more than 51 days / year to equal a man's salary, or when they tell us that we will have to wait until 2052 to have gender pay equality, or until 2063 for the leadership positions to be occupied by so many women as men. And, ladies and gentlemen here present, April has no face as a woman, when women continue to be the ones most affected by poverty; when one in 10 women does not have money, even to buy hygiene products, living in poverty, also menstrual. April is not yet a woman's face, when, in 230 Members of this House, of that House of Democracy, we are only 84 Members of Parliament. We have never had a woman as President of the Republic and the other high positions of the state always do with the male face. Ladies and gentlemen, two years from the 50 years of the Revolution of Cravos, the words of Maria de Lourdes Pintasilgo remain, unfortunately, today: sexism is a violation of human rights, sexism is a national plague. We must fight for the end of sexism and transform female emancipation into reality. Only in the morning of April will it be possible to agree in full equality and freedom. May the words of Simone de Beauvoir inspire us, so that in the morning of April, which is to be fulfilled as regards women's rights, be this reality: “ Let nothing stop us, let nothing define us, let nothing hold us back. That freedom be our own substance, since living is free,' because only April could finally have a woman's face. Live freedom, live equality, live on 25 April. [[P.S., BE, L and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u5	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u6	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Guests: It is 10 hours and 16 minutes. At 4:00 in the morning, long before the first light of the day, a handful of women were already out of bed to come to work. They caught the transport at five at least a quarter, arrived at 6 o'clock in the Assembly. When the day was born, long before our awakenings touched, they had already washed the main staircase, pulled the lustrous with the rotating woods of the Lost Passes, rubbed the bathrooms; they had already sucked out, again, the red folders, disinfected the benches of this room, checked if the nails were well spread in the green sponges that we do not see. After we leave, they will pick up the abandoned papers on the benches, they will wash the toilets again and pass the rubble on the floor for the afternoon visits. Your work is usually only noticed when it's not done. Who cut these woods? Who turned on the cables and secured the cameras? Who brought us here? Who washed the socks we wore? Who put them on the banner and who lifted them from the banner? Who passed the shirts and the blouses and the suits? Who made breakfast? Who stayed with the kids today and with the older ones? If it's paid work, how much do you earn? For this session to take place, so that the Chamber is ready for solemnity, there are hundreds of people behind the scenes of democracy. Do we see them? What attention have we given, as a society, to all these people without whom the world does not work? In supermarkets and canteens, in transport and in schools, in call centers and in businesses, in services and in industry, in houses. In the pandemic, we identified essential professions, front line workers, we called them « everyday heroes and heroes ». But many of the activities on which we depend continue to be the most devalued, the most precarious, the most outsourced activities. What attention has he earned who produces what we need? What consideration do you have for those who care for and maintain life? Seven hundred and few euros of wages, this is what makes the world clean, and Parliament. If you have a contract only a few hours—there are three hundred and few euros here too— plus 1, 39 € for breakfast. Transport and household income are subtracted. What's left? Inflation is subtracted, which is galloping. How much is left to live? And it's not just from them, from those who clean up, from the affliction. It is from everyone who receives the minimum wage or little more, it is from the majority. To those who make the country function, democracy must not only be grateful, it must be recognized and justice. In our country of low wages, the elite of managers of the 15 largest companies — where EDP ( Energies of Portugal) is included, Pinko Doce, Mota Engil, Galp — increased its income by 90 % last year. A manager earns 880 000 € per month. A supermarket box would have to work more than 1250 years to earn the same as your company administrator last year. How democratic are these inequalities? No, it's not okay. It is time to hear all the people who are not in the framed portrait of the notables, who have neither medals nor streets with their name, who are in the birds of the places, but without which there would be no places. Other stories, «or how Maina Mendes put both hands on the body and kicked in the ass of other legitimate superiors». The sentence is the heading of the New Portuguese Letters. It was in April 1972, now 50 years ago, that this book, generated for nine months by the three Marias, exploded the conventions, the subservient love, the shadows of punishment, the suppressed desire, the « don't talk about these things», the «my mother says it is a sin», the «look that respect is very beautiful», the «gives a kiss to the lady, that she is so nice to us» ; which also made the boundaries between literary genres, the limits of language, the prohibitions of thematics. In the country of colonial war and poverty, of “God, Fatherland and Family”, in which a woman had to request permission from her husband to go abroad and a primary teacher had to ask permission from the government to marry, the book did not last more than three days in the banks. For fascism, for more Marxist Springs, it was "insaneally pornographic and attacking public morals" to speak of the work of women and violence against them, of colonialism and male domination, of the vertigo of the body and of the body as a battlefield, of the uteruss "scattered by attempts of clandestine abortion with knitting needles and cabbage stems", of the despair of war, of migration to jump, of inequality, of poverty, of dictatorship. The books were collected and destroyed by censorship. Maria Teresa Horta, Maria Isabel Barreno and Maria Velho da Costa were thrown into the Court of Good Time, in such a way the stilages of what they had written had injured the regime. The trial, however, turned the case into an international feminist case. Simone de Beauvoir, among others, proposed that feminists from all over the world mobilize. Protests and demonstrations have been repeated by the Portuguese embassies in several countries. The Revolution would be necessary for the trial to change. For everything to change. So that it would no longer be the same half of humanity that the three Marys spoke of. And it wasn't the same? Our democracy was born of the Revolution, it has the ineligible mark of this umbilical cord. Democracy was not expected to come the certified document, the official role, the order of Mr. Doctor. It was to do the union and run the company, because the boss had fled. He went to make the daycare and the canteen, because there was and there was no need. He went to work the land and learned the accounts. It was to put us living in abandoned homes, because having empty houses, when abandoned, was not a right and having a roof, yes. It was to pass all the films, which were not now banned. It was to make production and theatre and cinema cooperatives, and even spectators. It was no longer acceptable to hide, even if a General of the National Salvation Board said that “the Revolution was not made for prostitutes and homosexuals”. He's been treating the others for you. He went out of the house or told the man that things have now changed, that the time of bondage is no longer. It was the minimum wage, the right to strike, it was the National Health Service, it was social security and public school. It was doing it all with your own hands. It was not waiting and not being satisfied. We're in 2022 and we're not satisfied. We do not look at democracy as a protocol without equal content. We now celebrate having more democracy than dictatorship. We're having a party on the street. But we do not want to have just more time for democracy, we want to have more democracy. We still lack almost everything. Missing social state, where we have already begun to build it, as in health, and where it has not existed, as in housing or care. We need to end the hierarchys and the sex divisions, the patterns of coloniality that persist. We need to produce and live differently. Do not tell us that the debate is between those who simply want to keep what exists and those who want to destroy what exists. What a sad and poor vision of the world to whom you think that the field of possible democracy is summed up in being liberal or liberal democrats. We do not accept this prison of expectations. The Revolution is not a heritage to be guarded with zeal, but a legacy to illuminate the contradictions of the present. The memory of the Revolution is a repertoire of struggle to expand our imagination and to push, today, the borders of possible, against exploitation, climate destruction, market despotism. We do not look at democracy as an inheritance to be preserved, but as a task for the present. The future must not be the past nor the perpetual repetition of the present, it is now to make another time. [[Congratulations from BE, PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u7	For an intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u8	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, Captains of April, Guests, Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The biggest event in the life and history of the Portuguese people, the April Revolution brought freedom. The freedom to speak without fear of persecution, imprisonment or torture; freedom of opinion, expression, organization and intervention. The April Revolution brought down the fascist dictatorship, repression and oppression and introduced freedom and democracy. It ended the exploitation and misery that affected the overwhelming majority of the population and brought the improvement of their living conditions. Ended the colonial war and established the peace, liberation and independence of the peoples of the former colonies. It was the anti-fascist struggle in the factories, in the fields, in the universities, in the arts, in the streets that created the conditions for the overthrow of the dictatorship and that enabled profound transformations in Portuguese society. We honor all the Democrats and anti-fascists, the men and women who, under extremely difficult circumstances, have fought against fascism. We honor the April military and the Armed Forces Movement, to whom the popular masses joined, carrying out the Revolution and its far-reaching conquests. Some people try to whiten out what fascism was. We will not allow and remember the nature of the Fascist regime — corruption as a state policy, through the fusion of political power with economic power, supported in monopolies and in latifundia, the plunder of national resources in favour of those interests, the accumulation of colossal fortunes by half a dozen rich and powerful, while for the people it was poverty and poverty, the denial of freedoms, illiteracy, the lack of health care, colonialism, racism, war, discrimination of women. We don't let him forget, so he'll never come back! There are those who seek to distort the content and meaning of April 25. Against historical perversions and falsifications, we welcome the Revolution which has assumed as its aim to establish a democratic regime, liquidate the power of monopolies, promote general economic development and land reform, give up the land to whom it works, raise the standard of living of the working classes and the people in general, democratize access to education and culture, affirm national independence, free Portugal from imperialism, pursue a policy of peace and friendship with all peoples. All this enshrined in the Constitution, adopted on 2 April 1976, despite the purposes and attacks of reactionary forces to prevent it. in these almost five decades, there have always been those who did not comply with April's achievements and have sought to limit and reduce its scope, hinder its implementation and impose retrocessions, in a real adjustment of accounts with April. As a result of the right-wing policy, of submission to the European Union's taxes and of the sub-alternisation of national interests to the economic groups, living conditions are worsening. The blatant use of war and sanctions as a pretext for greater accumulation of profits requires a firm and determined intervention, which confronts the interests of the economic groups to defend the people and the country. However, the PS government and the parties to its right reject this response and insist on imposing on workers and on the people who pay the bill of war and sanctions. The attempt to impose a single thought, the lifting of new censures, the hostility of those who freely express divergent opinion of those who are dictated by the dominant ideology are dangerous elements of attack on the democratic regime and therefore have as their target their strongest defenders, the communists and other democrats, in order to silence their intervention. Today, we hear old ideas, masked by modern people, in order to overthrow the democratic regime and liquidate the Constitution, subjecting it to liberal dogmas, for the benefit of economic groups and their domain, attacking rights and imposing more exploitation and impoverishment on workers and the people. What is required is to implement the rights which the Constitution enshrines and which constitute the necessary course for a future Portugal. The achievements, values and ideals of April are the solution to our country's current problems and the future. The struggle of workers and the people for better wages and pensions, for the strengthening of rights, for social protection, for the National Health Service, for the public school, for the right to housing, culture, transport, for security, for equality, for the protection of the environment is the struggle for alternative policy, is the struggle for April. April is the heritage of the Portuguese people, but not all were workers in their construction. It is up to all Democrats to defend him. by the Portuguese Communist Party, with the example of 100 years of struggle to serve the people and the country, against attempts of intimidation, we reaffirm our commitment today and forever against fascism and war, for peace, freedom, democracy, social justice, for the values of April in the lives of children, young people, workers, the Portuguese people, with unbreakable confidence in the future. in commemorating April, we recall its achievement, but above all, we project its achievements and values in the construction of a developed Portugal, of progress, of peace and sovereign, because April is more Future! [[Congratulations from the PCP and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u9	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr Bernardo Blanco.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u10	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the Government, Mr. Members, Portuguese : Silence. Before April 25, we had almost 50 years of silence, 50 years without a genuine election, 50 years without the free voice of the opposition, 50 years without freedom of expression. How did this happen? How did a lot of the Portuguese people not want to know? Before April 25, Portugal was a ghost country controlled by a closed hand. Portugal had, first of all, a ghost justice. Portugal had political prisoners without crimes. There was a ban on books and movies. Men had more rights than women. Secondly, Portugal had a ghost economy, based on economic nationalism, controlled by State cartels with little or no free market. Thirdly, Portugal had a ghost political system based on the cult of the chief, the oppression of the political police, the rejection of liberal democracy and criticism. How did this happen? How did a lot of the Portuguese people not want to know? As Fernando Pessoa wrote: "Yes, it is the New State, and the people/heared, read and sat down. / Yes, this is a New State/ Because it's a state of things/ That you've never seen before. Do not keep on seeking. ” For me, who was born in the 1990s, and for whom he was born in the new millennium, the New State is the old State: a reality so distant, at the temporal level and at the level of ideal, that, for me, the greatest gift of April 25, fortunately, is no longer material, but, yes, spiritual. For me, April 25 is the day the Portuguese wanted to know. It is the day that represents the spirit of insurrection that breaks the dictatorship, of insurgency that breaks the censorship, of inconformity that breaks the stagnation. And it is this spirit that has to come back quickly. This year, in which, as has already been pointed out today, the 48 years of 25 April exceed the 48 years of dictatorship, is certainly not the time to end « the state to which we have arrived», recalling Salgueiro Maia, but it is time to reflect on and change the state to which we have arrived. Portugal is again in a long sleep, much less serious and, of course, incompatible with the previous sleep, but that does not cease to be worrying. Portugal is a stagnant country; Portugal, economically, is halted, socially, is hypnotized, politically, I would say it is off. Today, the owner of a restaurant in Faro who wants to increase the wages of a young man, from €800 to €900, sees the state take half that increase, and the young man has no idea, perpetuating a country of minimum wages and increasingly of the poorest of the European Union. Today, a nurse in Lisbon earns 1000 € liquid and much of it will pay for her home, thinking, every day, more and more, in the forced option of emigration. Today, a doctor or consultant in port who earns a little above average, between IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and high social security, see almost 40 % of their salary going to a state that spends 4 billion playing aircraft. Today, a family in Aveiro, instead of having freedom to choose their children's school, has less social mobility, because it is obliged by the government to attend the school of their postal code. Today, a family in Braga has fewer health choices and more long waiting lines because the government has decided, unlike the rest of Europe, to end public-private partnerships. And today, from Beja to Azores, half of the Portuguese do not vote — a single case in Western Europe, aggravated, obviously, by the fact that there is no national compensation circle. The good news, of course, is that Portugal is not condemned. That is certainly not our fairy. But for Portugal to get out of the line of Europe and back forward, we need to break with everything that the New State has left us. We need to change. Change the little bit and fear for the ambition and innovation of the discoveries. Changing the “respect” blind to authority by the inconformity of the 1820 Liberal Revolution. Change the disinterest and apathy for the massive participation of 90% in the 1975 elections. Portugal lacks the inconformism of April to break the stagnation. April has entrusted us with this difficult task, to continue to want to know about the policy, Portugal, Europe, the world, essentially, of the future. And, as April has shown us and the war in Ukraine confirms us, democracy is hard to conquer, but easy to lose. So today, it is important to say that all free people, wherever they live, are citizens of Ukraine. Finally, Mr President, on 25 April is a greater legacy than all of us and whose sole owner is the Portuguese people. It is the awakening day, it is the spirit that wakes us up throughout the long sleep of yesterday in search of a better tomorrow. Portuguese, we're gonna want to know again. Let us, with the inconformity of April, break the stagnation. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u11	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u12	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, other Authorities, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Illustres Invited : The story that taught us this day and this morning was the story of the glory of the nails that today adorn this Parliament. The story of the glorification of a morning exit of a night that wanted to give triumph, freedom and prosperity to Portugal. So we have passed, and we continue to pass, every April 25th by greeting each other, bringing these red nails and showing the country that we are different. Today, and perhaps this has never been said in this House, we should, yes, look at the Portuguese and say "sorry, because we failed", because we failed. We have failed in the justice we have built; we have failed in the empire that has dissolved and that has left other countries to their mercy and families to their lot; we have failed in young people who want to emigrate as never before, in the country that promised them to be the Country of Prosperity; we have failed in pensioners and pensioners, who today have the worst purchasing power of the European Union. So much failed April. And these nails of nothing are worth to those people, who, in order to go to the supermarket, have to use the money of their reform and not a red nail to pay for their food. We failed, Portuguese! We, all of us, who are sitting here, have failed! We failed in the fight we should have been working for all of you. We have failed the police, we have failed the magistrates, we have failed the entrepreneurs, we have failed the families, we have failed those who have looked and said "give us a different country, give us this morning that they have promised us", because Portugal has not ceased to be overcome and obscured. We failed in reconciliation. And, Mr President, perhaps today is the day when we greet freedom, to remind all those who were victims of expropriation after 25 April 1974, all those returned from their countries and here they found a country that did not give them the hand and that should have given them the hand, that country that we no longer have. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, Mr President, we have failed these too. We failed the returnees, we failed the ex-combatants, some of them living on the street, here, in this city of Lisbon. While we celebrate with red nails in this Parliament, there are ex-combatants who are living in the subway stations at the station of Santa Apollonia. Long live April! No doubt! But it was April of all Portuguese, including those who did so and who were forgotten by Portugal, all of them, the victims of expropriation, of agrarian reform. The forgetfulness of a regime that has not forgotten them and has ostensibly done to ignore them. We should not be afraid to quote and bring them to memory here today, because they are as Portuguese as we are and have families as we have. So let me address you, Mr President of the Republic, my opponent and winner of the last elections, with a very specific request: do not condemn those who tortured, killed and expropriated in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President of the Republic, we cannot, among the decorated, have people who killed babies, people who murdered families, people who destroyed the Portuguese economy in the 1970s and 1980s. We are still paying for this today and, if we want to reconcile Portugal, certainly, it is not to make them heroes that we will reconcile Portugal, but to have the ability to look at History forward and say that whoever committed terrorist acts, who sponsored and promoted nationalizations and expropriations cannot be a hero, must be considered what it is, a bandit. And we should treat the bandits as bandits, because that's what they are. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, Mr President of the Republic and Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, allow me to leave this challenge on this solemn day: there is no sense here today, if we do not have the courage to say that there would have been no 25 April if there had not been 25 November, and we must have the courage to tell Portugal that on 25 November it was the day that brought us freedom and democracy! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So we failed. We failed all the data we have at our disposal. In 1975, Mr. President, Portugal was in the 23. position of the Human Development Index ; in 2015, it was in 41. to These nails should say this every day: « Portugal was in the 23. position, it went to 41. a ' What we had was bad, much of what came after was worse, or bad continued to be. Three in every four young people in our country earn less than €950 per month; three in every four of those who are seeing us at home, and know well what I'm talking about, earn less than €950 per month. Some of them, today, look at countries that have been behind a "Eron Curtain" for a few years and have higher wages there than we do here. How did we get here? Oh, my God! We say that ethics, transparency and justice came in those chaimets. And this week on 25 April, Mr President, we had another minister who went directly from the government to a financial institution whose budget has distributed funding to finance it in the ISCTE. this same year, on 25 April, in which we both celebrated spending more time on freedom than in dictatorship, a corrupt former banker refuses to be judged, because he has Alzheimer's, but is on holiday in Sardinia, at the time when many of these sessions took place here. Yes, Mr President, at the same time as we celebrate April 25, there are politicians arrested for vital grants and there are pensioners to receive 200 € per month every month. If this was April, we did not want this April and we preferred another one, because it is the people, first of all, the Portuguese, first of all, to whom we have to give remembrance. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In the 48th year of April, in the 48th year of the Revolution of Cravos, we should assume the Portuguese that we failed. We failed in progress, and we were systematically making excuses to say that we failed: it was the financial crisis, it was the pandemic, now it is the war. I don't know how fast they followed the chaimetes that came from Santarém to Lisbon, but I know one thing: I know that, at the speed of April 25th, Portugal stood systematically behind. Perhaps the symbol of some military failures that morning would be the symbol of what was the failure of the country in the years that followed. I do not accept to live in a country that, at the end of 10, 15, 20 or 40 years of democracy, is left to go beyond Latvia, is to be overcome by Czechoslovakia, is to be overcome by countries that have been in the other « Iron Curtain » for a few years. I do not accept living in a country overcome, impoverished and frightened, and I am not afraid to say. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In the 48 years of April, we continue to have a government that tries to suffocate justice and throw it against its enemies. We continue to have a country overcome by countries that we didn't even dream of years ago, they could overcome us. And that's what we should tell people on this solemn day. They, who are seeing us, know well that this country stayed behind in the grandchildren who emigrated, in that police son who had to take responsibility for defending the law and order, in those who did and built this country and feel that today they pay more taxes than ever. I shall end by leaving this, Mr President, we have never paid so many taxes in Portugal. « And for what? » Ask yourself who's seeing us. Why do we pay this incredible amount of taxes, if not to support a huge state clientele that impoverishs, destroys and destroys our democracy? Oh, my God! Today, the Portuguese feel that they truly pay to support the State, but worse, that they pay to sustain those who do not want to do anything at all. And this is not acceptable in a modern democracy and in a democracy like ours. It was Francisco Sá Carneiro who said: «A democracy that does not vigorously defend itself does not have the right to survive». And a people who do not insurgency does not have the right to win. And we want a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot to win! Do not win by the nails, do not win by any flower, do not win by any symbol: win by Portugal, by this Portugal that needs us. As our greatest poet said: "Lord, Portugal is to be fulfilled"! And we are not afraid, we, sooner or later, will fulfill Portugal! [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u13	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mr Rui Rio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u14	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we celebrate the 48th anniversary of 25 April. To make a speech in honor of the Revolution of Cravos and therefore in defense of democracy cannot be, so many years later, a mere repository of laudatory statements a thousand times repeated. One thing is the importance and gratitude that we all owe to those who have given us freedom nearly half a century ago; the different thing is to honor this historic act that freed us from the dictatorship, with a serious and courageous analysis of the situation in which today the regime that was founded was found. Those who risked their future and, in some cases, their own life, so that the country could live in democracy, deserve to be genuinely honored; that is, always defending the values that they, heroically, have offered us. And defending these values is, first of all, having the courage and the frontality to point out what over time has been degrading and thus weakening the main purposes of April 25. If for some of us the Revolution of Claws is a well present and intensely lived memory, the truth is that for most Portuguese it is already only another historical date before its birth. That is why it is also necessary that the evocation of April 25 should be a moment of serious and realistic self-criticism of the journey we have followed, because simply to praise the past is objectively giving up the future. in a society that changes at a speed never previously felt by humanity, the need to reform what has recently been reformed is evidence with which we have lived, and with which we will have to live more and more intensely. In democracy, this reality has created a challenge of contradictory contours, which society has had difficulty balancing. If it is fair to take responsibility for politics, because it has not had the courage to make the structural reforms that the country's development calls for, the truth is that the majority of the electorate also values much more the easy promise of immediate blessing than the realization of the reforms that prepare its future. This contradiction, between the need for votes to win elections and the need to respond to the evolution of society, has always existed, but in present times, given the voracity of this evolution, it is increasingly evident and, I would say, much more worrying. It is one of the main reasons for the discredit in which public life has fallen, because the electorate who today chooses the easier way is the people who will complain tomorrow about the ineffectiveness of the government he has chosen. after 48 years, this disbelief and popular discontent associated with it were becoming the main supports of new extremist forces that, with their traditional demagogy, seek to satisfy the emotional impulses of those who are most fragile. [[PSD applause.]] The solution to curb the growth of extremisms is not absurd « health cords», nor is it the disqualification of the vote of those in them. The solution is in ourselves. The solution is facing reality without cowardice or hypocrisy. He is reforming or, I would say better, breaking up with what has long been acquired and serving sectoral or group interests. Break with everything that doesn't work according to the logic of collective interest, but rather depending on the sector or corporation to which immobilism benefits. This is the first reason why the development of our country is foreign and feeds on the disenchantment that exists today. The amendment of the electoral system, the constitutional review, the reform of justice, decentralisation, the Law of the Political Parties and its logic of operation, or a reform of the State which promotes the quality and productivity of public services and allows the reduction of taxes, are all examples of matters that lack adequate time. But also a strong political attitude to combat corruption and essentially to trade in influences, of real autonomy in the face of the current logic of the functioning of the social communication, of renouncing the spectacle policy and strengthening the truth and competence, of courage to be stronger with the strong than with the weak and, above all, of genuineness and coherence between words and acts, are all ways of being that, if corrected in the right sense, will certainly help the credibility of public life and the rebirth of the hope that April 25 brought us, but that time and men have let us weaken. Mr President, if we want Portugal to move towards the future, which is not increasingly late at European level and does not want to continue to see its young people emigration, then we will have to have the trait of doing different things, acting consistently on the real causes of our problem. Those who, 48 years ago, gave us freedom and democracy deserve us to do so. They deserve us to know how to build Portugal with which they dreamed and for which they all risked, because that is the Portugal that is worth it. [[Congratulations from the PSD, standing, and from Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u15	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u16	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. President Ramalho Eanes, Mr. Presidents Ferro Rodrigues and Mota Amaral — and in you greeting all the former parliamentarians — Mr. Captains of April and representatives of the Association 25 April — and in you welcoming the Movement of Armed Forces — Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Justice and other higher courts, other Civil and Military Authorities, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: Commemorating April 25 is, firstly, honoring the memory of those who resisted, suffered and fell for freedom to be possible. In the year in which the days of democracy exceed the number of days in dictatorship, the coincidence of that date occurred on 24 March, the day of the student revolt that mobilized the youth against those who deprived them of their future. Allow me, therefore, to convene the memory of those who, in the resistance to the New State and in the construction of the Second Republic, unfortunately for the first time will not follow the celebration of April, President Jorge Sampaio. [[PSP and L, standing, PCP, BE, PAN and PSD Members applauded.]] On this March 24, 1962, Sampaio showed that he was already a free man before the freedom of race, never vilifying himself before oppression and injustice, not fearing to risk, when what was risked was life and the future. Since those days, with colleagues in Alameda of the University, before the arbitrariness of the plenary courts that you have faced and in your life as an tireless builder of democracy—as a tributary in this House, as an autarch in local power and in the Presidency of the Republic— Jorge Sampaio joins the eternals that we lack so much to remember that respect, cordiality and conviviality are essential to democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is through the memory of Jorge Sampaio that today I allow myself to pay tribute to all those who, since the 20th century — Republicans, anarchists, communists, socialists, monarchists, liberals and democrats of other extractions — have kept the flame of hope from a free Portugal, unaffected at last, as Mário Soares demanded and helped to realize. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members : Commemorating April is also honoring those who, in the decisive morning, broke the crickets that held their citizens, giving the coming generations the right to be born free men and women. For the thanks that is due to them will always be scarce gestures and words, incapacities that are from hugging all and the singular dimension of their liberating gesture, not only from one, but from several countries. In the Association of April 25, present among us, and in the spirit of all who today celebrate freedom, we bow, once again, in gratitude. However, honoring April is also not to forget that the contradictions and tensions that then faced and risk fractured the country during the revolutionary process were overcome by the decision-makers of then, no one excluding, all conquering for democracy, healing the wounds and privileged what unites us and that everyone prides. We will not err today, out of time, where Soares, Sá Carneiro, Cunhal, Freitas do Amaral, Melo Antunes and Ramallo Eanes did not fail. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members : Commemorating April 25 is also acknowledging that Portugal which we are today only exists thanks to the doors, then, frank. The course of time, which outlines the collective memory, makes it increasingly relevant that today is also a day of balance of the facts of democracy. Not to conform and slow down our determination to pursue, but rather to motivate future generations to continue to build a more just and more supportive country. Let us therefore confront Portugal before 25 April 1974 with the achievements of the democratic and European Portugal we have today. A girl born in April 2022 will not face a regime that tells her that she cannot be a judge, or a diplomat, who submits her to her husband as head of the family, who does not protect her from violence and determines her social role that she cannot escape. A girl born in April 2022 will not have to challenge a child mortality rate that shames her country and will be able to face the future with an 81-year life expectancy, knowing that the SNS will be next to her to face what comes forward. A girl born in April 2022, thanks to public school, will not know a country in which 20 % of men and 31 % of women are illiterate, but rather a population that jumped from 5 % of secondary education to 83 %... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and jumped less than 1 % with higher education, between 30 and 34 years of age, to more than 50 %. A girl born in 2022 who wants to live freely her identity and sexual orientation will not be marginalized or treated as a criminal or obliged to conform to the prejudices of others. A girl born in 2022 will have on her side the guarantee of a minimum wage, strike as a right, protection in unemployment, defense against arbitrary dismissals, parental rights, pension when retiring and social support, if necessary of the solidarity of her community. A girl born in 2022 will not know the limits of her creativity, will enjoy without censorship of the creativity of others, will have the right to inform herself and be informed, to express herself, to use the word, not to use the word, to read what she understands and to meet with whom she wishes. A girl born in 2022 will be free to profess any faith or not to profess any faith, to benefit from the protection of the State against whom she wants to discriminate against, whether a racialized person or a person with disabilities. A girl born in 2022 will have the power to participate, with her vote, in defining the destinations of her country, her autonomous region or her authority. A girl born in 2022 will meet a country in peace. It wasn't lucky, it wasn't by chance, it wasn't despite the Revolution that all this happened. It was thanks to April 25 that the country's desire to join the European democratic project could be realized and to overcome the delay it has been condemned, building a solidarity country, with robust democratic institutions and a social state based on solidarity as a fundamental principle of true emancipation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Alone and on our backs, individually, we would not have gone through so many decades in so few years. Alone, closed on our borders, from backs to our diaspora and to the communities of migrants, who share their destiny with us, would not have enriched us in the same way. We would not have achieved respect for the international community and for the democracies of the world by ourselves or for those who share our language. Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members: It is only necessary to mention the last reason for continuing to celebrate April, the future. As Manuel Alegre said almost 20 years ago, in this same forum, at the evocative session of the 30 years of the Revolution, on 25 April is those rare days of life of a people in whose future is open, undetermined, and this initial opening that makes all dreams possible. We are proud of what we have accomplished, we must face the role of representation that today brings us together with the humility that comes from knowing that we are still missing to walk and that, being human, many of our achievements are not perfect and are not complete. In days like yesterday in the country of freedoms, populist threats and the use of simplification of what is complex to incite resentment among citizens, the quality of democratic institutions has never been so important, respect for the other has never been so fundamental, the preservation of the social state has never been so decisive to immunize us against these risks. Many of the inconformities with what is yet to be done, disappointed with dreams yet to realize or discontent with the quality of democracy, are not enemies of April, but are at risk of being manipulated or instrumentalized by those who are and who excuse me from enunciation. It is precisely by ensuring that everyone prospers and that they find in our Republic, under the protection of their social state, space to realize their dreams that the young Portuguese democracy will overcome the challenge it has to face and avoid breaking the expressive popular membership that still congregates. This challenge within doors adds ever more urgent need of solidarity towards those who, outside the world, need us, in the joint defence of a common international order, where the law of the strongest is abandoned. There is no spirit of April in the brute force to resolve disputes nor in disrespecting the sovereignty and integrity of the neighbouring peoples. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members: By pointing out, this year, the 200 years of the first Portuguese Constitution and the parliamentary institution, let us call this inspiration on the role that the Assembly of the Republic can play, giving voice to all Portuguese, without exclusions, affirming itself as a guarantor of fundamental freedoms, projecting the values of April and proving the superiority of the democratic model and inclusion, diverging without attacking, disagreeing without disrespect, criticizing without ting. The first words of our current constitutional text—which, curiously, begins with 25 April and also ends with 25 April 1976, date of entry into force of the Constitution—are precisely those which clearly state the centrality of the liberation date and must continue to federation, without any hesitation, all Democrats and all those who defend fundamental rights and freedoms. On 25 April 1974, the Armed Forces Movement, crowning the long resistance of the Portuguese people and interpreting their deep feelings, overthrew the fascist regime. Freeing Portugal from dictatorship, oppression and colonialism represented a revolutionary transformation and the beginning of a historical turn of Portuguese society. We are therefore committed to continuing to meet this challenge and this turn, keeping the doors that April has opened open. Long live Portugal, live the Republic, live on 25 April! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u17	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other government members, Mr. Presidents of the Superior Courts, Civil, Military and Religious Authorities, Mr. Nuncio Apostolic, representing the Diplomatic Corps, Illustres Invited and Invited, Faces and Dear Citizens, Mrs. Members, Captains of April: The celebration of 48. the anniversary of 25 April occurs in a particularly dramatic European and international context. Russia's war on Ukraine is the most serious threat to European security and world peace in decades. In its national position and within the framework of the organisations to which the European Union belongs, in particular the United Nations and NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), Portugal has fought for the condemnation of the aggression regime and support for the nation that has been attacked and the need for the aggressor to cease hostilities, so that lives can be saved and the dispute can be restored to the political-diplomatic plane where lasting solutions are agreed. We wish the best of the achievements this week of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] In such difficult times, the essential features of our homeland, such as a mature democracy, a safe and peaceful country and a cohesive and open society, emerge as a valuable heritage and an international example. Thanks to the Liberation Revolution of 25 April and to the way we have since been building a pluralist democracy that everyone seeks to integrate, without admitting basic religious, territorial or identity fractures, has not ceased to grow the international recognition of the Portuguese ability to communicate with all, to make bridges between different realities and to be a European nation open to the world. In times of closure and hatred, the openness to others in a country like ours, where citizens of almost all nationalities currently live, without this being any problem, where any religious confession is welcome and who feels so willing to deal with their European partners as in relation to Africa, the Americas and the various regions of Asia, this openness is a very precious thing that we should cherish. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Much is due to the institutions and political agents of the democratic regime. But it goes deeper, because it has roots in the multi-sectoral experience of Portuguese and, in particular, in the experience of emigration. As my master Vitorino Magalhães Godinho said, emigration has been a structural constant of our history since the 15th century. Even at the time of the empire, the people who left the peninsula did not stop in their borders, before, they went beyond, and they settled, mixed themselves, they became, not strangers, but « children of the earth», so well studied by the healthy António Manuel Hespanha. At the present age, the contribution of migration waves to Brazil, the United States, France, Germany, and so many other destinations was crucial to the economic development and social transformation of the regions of origin. It continues to be today, and in various ways: through consumption and consignments, capturing and making investment, creating a niche of its own and valuable for certain national exports, serving as a privileged vehicle for encounters of customs, traditions, knowledge and ways of being. The social capacity of this experience of mobility and migration is forming what, as a sociologist, I have designated as a cosmopolitism to the ground of daily life, which opens Portugal to the world and tends to treat foreigners as sharing the same humanity, equal in rights and responsibilities. I know that, because of the importance for the country of communities living abroad, we dedicated to them on 10 June, when we very appropriately celebrated the erring poet Luís de Camões, who said that he had left « life in pieces by the distributed world». But I believe that we still need to recall the essential link between democracy and communities, between communities and democracy; and there is no better date to do so, following the ephemerides, than on 25 April, and in particular on 25 April 2022, in which Parliament has just elected to preside over a Member elected by the circle outside Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is much that democracy owes to the communities, in the international recognition that we enjoy as a peaceful, secure, humanist and cosmopolitan country. [[Pause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: As I said, it is very much what we owe the communities, in the international recognition that we enjoy as a safe, humanist and cosmopolitan country. Every citizen or citizen, wherever he is, is a living example of the qualities of work, assistance, sociability and civicism that rightly associate with our people. With more than 5 million living in more than 180 countries, the influence of Portuguese and Luso-descendants is truly global. The communities that form are a concrete demonstration of how false is the myth of contradiction between original identity and integration, upon which various strains of xenophobia lie. In fact, Portuguese communities are a clear example of a dual harmonious linkage: a band, deep connection to Portugal and its regions and localities; the other, full integration into host societies, with strict respect for its laws, uses and customs. These characteristics are rooted in the history of emigration. But the establishment of political democracy and the development it has allowed have given them a new dimension. Because the social and cultural reality of the country has changed and consequently changed the image that others make of us; because decolonization, first, and European integration, then substantially altered the definition of circuits and modalities of international mobility in which Portuguese people are enrolled; because massive schooling has also translated into new opportunities for labour and social integration abroad; and all this has helped to diversify the profiles of emigration, the social composition of migrants, the conditions of success of children and grandchildren in host societies, the progressive conquest of high responsibility positions in businesses, academies, public institutions and international organizations, thus enriching us all. However, if the social and political change associated with the democratization process of our country, in the post-25 April, has greatly influenced the status and paths of residents abroad, these were also decisive for the success of democracy and national development. Several of the 'open doors' opened by the migrants. It is enough to note how between 1974 and 1976 1 million Portuguese returned from Africa — under such difficult and traumatic conditions — and from Europe fully integrated into Portuguese society and there recovered the local economy without any fracture. These returned emigrants are one of the foundations of the regime that came out of April 25, and let us say, loud and sound, on the day of the celebration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Excellences: The link between communities and democracy would not, however, be what is without the turn that the Revolution of Craps has worked in public policy for Portuguese living abroad. The turn soon began in 1975, with the creation of the State Secretary of Emigration, which was also posted at the Ministry of Labour, five years ago, with the creation of the State Secretary of the Communities and then different governments were improving the measures until they brought up a real policy for diaspora. Now, there is only one word to name the foundation of this policy, the democratic word par excellence: citizenship. The recognition by the 1976 Constitution of the equal rights of compatriots living abroad, and their consequences — the institutionalization of Portuguese teaching abroad, the support for associivism, the birth of the Council of the Portuguese Communities, the extension of nationality to the descendants of Luso-descendants — is a masterpiece of our democratic regime, and, I insist, we should not have to say so. The highest expression is civic and electoral participation. The creation of immigration circles for the Assembly of the Republic and the extension of the right to vote to the presidential and European elections were fundamental steps for our democracy to all of us. The last barrier was broken in 2018, when in this Parliament, unanimously, the automatic census was expanded to citizens' card carriers with a residence abroad, making one and 600 thousand of them voters of full right. The effect did not remain: the number of those who voted in so-called immigration circles in the elections of 30 January was six times higher than in 2015. And it will continue to increase, so as to bring us closer to the ambition of any democracy, which is to treat all people as citizens, i.e. subjects of their destiny. What I have done so far would be good enough to praise the communities living abroad. But allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who go further, to justify bringing them to the ground on the day when I value the image of Portugal in the world, as a producer and bridge-crosser. In recent years, let us first say that fear, due to isolated cases, then gradually in a current, the Luso-descendants are achieving responsibility functions in the municipalities, regions and states of which they are inhabitants: they are occupying leadership positions in public administrations, justice systems, the organization of schools and universities; they will become councillors, mayors of municipal chambers, members of state assemblies, parliamentarians and national congresses, members of governments. The number of those whom we call, and well, Luso-Electos is today of the order of hundreds, and the networks that are forming, together with those of graduate students and professionals, of chambers of commerce, of community councillors, constitute a very precious capital that the country has, to praise and project its influence in the world — this influence whose nature benefits them, acting on a daily basis. The democracy we now celebrate is also fuelled by this setiva: the civic and political participation of Portuguese residents abroad in public affairs, both of their Portuguese homeland and of the host country. I'm talking about all of them. of the illustrious emigrants who now dignify us in front of the United Nations and other international organizations, in the economic and professional world, in the arts, in the Church, in sport, in volunteering. And I speak, above all, of those on whose shoulders these rest—are the millions of ordinary men and women who left, in search of a little less difficult life, and that so well speak the novels of Camilo, Ferreira de Castro, Olga Gonçalves, Dulce Maria Cardoso, or the cinema of Miguel Gomes and Ruben Alves. unlike the dictatorship, democracy does not hide problems. The tasks we have today are several: how to stop the bleeding of many of our most qualified young people, how to support their return to Portugal, how to serve communities abroad better. But to understand that these communities are an indispensable part of the nation that we form, an essential resource for our influence in the world and a living example of what identity and integration, multiculturality and cohesion are for those who complement themselves and not opposed those who spread themselves, understand it is the best way to deal with problems: the problems of the Portuguese, again around with the economic consequences of war, and the problems of the world, lacking more people like us, friends of peace. It was April 25 that he invested Portuguese residents abroad as full-body Portuguese citizens. They therefore deserve to be at last the main theme of the speech of a President of Parliament at the solemn commemorative session of our liberation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The revolution that filled the pipes of the rifles with nails made Portuguese residents abroad and their descendants full members of the civic community that is our homeland. And so Portugal expanded horizons and strengthened itself in its most fruitful role in the nation concert: as a cradle and home of people in its cosmopolitan, peaceful, humanist, solidarity, open to others, walking around the world and everywhere breaking down walls and building bridges. Also, Captains of April, because you have started the movement that allowed Portugal to build a democracy where all Portuguese belong, regardless of where they are born or reside, Captains of April, thank you very much! From the bottom of the heart, thank you very much! [[PSP, PCP, BE, L and PSD, standing, and PSD, PAN and IL Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] Mr President of the Republic will now send a message to Parliament. Please, Mr. President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u18	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Courts, President Antonio Ramalho Eanes, Mr. Presidents João Bosco Mota Amaral and Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, Mr Nuncio Apostolic, representing the Diplomatic Corps, Ms. Members of the Government, Dear Guests, in particular representatives and Captains of April, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portuguese : I welcome you with high personal regard and institutional solidarity, Mr. Ex. President, and, in the person of Mr. Ex., Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Members, the first time that I use the floor before the Assembly of the Republic after the election last January. I make warm vows of the greatest successes, for the sake of Portugal, which is the same as all Portuguese. And let me mention here, too, with great regret, who accompanied us on 25 April after 25 April with the constant civic militancy which spurred his life for Portugal, President Jorge Sampaio. [[PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portuguese : One year ago I spoke to you from Portugal on your journey from the empire until 25 April, to decolonization and democracy. And it is never too much to evoke and thank you for the fundamental gesture of the Captains of April. It is thought of what was before and after that gesture, it was unique, unique and decisive. Without him there would not be a free assembly of the Republic today, with free voices. There is no way to forget it in the writing or the rewriting of history. Today, I'm talking about what comes from long before April, comes from the beginning of Portugal. Even if they are only 700 years old at sea, 400 years of which as a permanent and organized body, many centuries on earth and a century in the air, are our Armed Forces guaranteeing independence, sovereignty, integrity and unity of our homeland. And in these times when the war in Europe returns to our homes, touches our lives, changes our daily lives, talks in the Armed Forces is about what, being past, is very present and, even more, the future. This war is not the only one right now in the world, but it is perhaps the most global of all. This war was not the only one we know in Europe after April 1974, but it could be the most brutal in forced refugees to have to cut their roots and also the most universal in their effects in almost half a century. But it's not about the war I want to talk to you today. Today, what matters is to speak of our Armed Forces in Portugal which April allowed it to be democratic, of the Armed Forces in democracy. A week ago, thanks to our soldiers who left for Romania — and there were 200 — their service to the homeland. They go on a mission of peace, not a mission of war; to defend peace, not to make war; to prevent more war and to help create more peace. Peace for Europe, and, of course, for that conflicted Europe and the immediate and more tragic direct victims of war, peace for the homeland, our homeland, in the same way. Peace and security. That peace and security that are the first mission of the Armed Forces. To the homeland! And what is the homeland that they exist to serve? Is it an independent state nearly 900 years ago? Yeah, but it's more than that. Is it a community of life, of culture, of language, of identities forged in diversity, to which many call the Nation, even though our State has long been multinational? Yeah, but it's more than that. It's a history, made of glory and failures, and more glory than failures, otherwise, perhaps, wouldn't we be here now? Yeah, but it's more than that. Is it an idea, a project, a design that unites us beyond what separates us, how we are universal, scattered by the worlds and serving as meeting platforms among them? Yeah, but it's more than that. That's all I said, but more, much more. A Fatherland are people of flesh and bone, all soaked and each of them per se, live here within the physical borders, live outside them, in the spiritual territory, which is where each one of us is. Portugal is the Portuguese, more those who received themselves or were received by them, and each different, diverse, unrepeatable. Serving the homeland, as there are to serve the Armed Forces, is serving these Portuguese—inside and out there—but those who are part of our common family. Serve the country forever. It was to trace our continental territory and go to the islands. And crossing oceans and contacting continents. And almost lost, or even lost, independence. And regain it, time after time, generation after generation. And lose battles. And wars. But win each other. In weapons, diplomacy, economics, social fabric, but also in language, culture, people. Yes, because battles, like wars, are lost and won in people, with them and for them. Serving the country, at this time, for example, is going to Romania, like being in Lithuania, the Central African Republic, Mali, the Mediterranean, the Gulf of Guinea, Mozambique. It is in these settings, as in others, to serve the peace and security of all of us. But how? How does Romania, or the heavens of Baltic Europe, or other Europes, Africa, America, or Asia, fight for peace and security? It fights, because our borders are no longer those that have gone. Because in the Baltic, as in the Eastern European Union, the borders of the European Union are our borders. As in other continents, the borders of the CPLP (Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries) are our borders. As in some of them, the borders of NATO, or of the Ibero-American world, are our borders. As is increasingly the case for this outside world — which are the United Nations — the borders of peace, security, freedom, equality, the fight against poverty and poverty and for climate action are our borders. If peace does not exist, insecurity will also reach our lives, beginning with the compatriots scattered by the universe, our economy, the prices of our energy, our food, our basic goods, and so many of our life projects. Peace and security are not, therefore, only—and it would be immense, even the most pungent — the life and death of those who are two or three days away from our homes. No, no, no. It's our everyday life. They are the Armed Forces, not the only ones, but the main guarantors of this peace. More visibly still in time of war. Even if they do not enter that war, they prevent, help to build and preserve, even there, possible and desirable peace. But they do more, much more, here: they disinfect homes and schools, organize national pandemic vaccinations, support forest fires, fillies, natural disasters. They are not the only ones, but they are always fundamental. And they still give, and they want to give more, vocational training for reintegration into employment and society. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Portuguese : Why, on 25 April, do I speak of our Armed Forces, in the democracy we have to recreate, journey after journey? Because without the Armed Forces, and strong, united and motivated Armed Forces, our peace, our security, our freedom, our democracy—the dreams of April 25—will become weaker. Because recognizing how important the Armed Forces are, in our life as Fatherland, requires more than we can remember, in words, their importance. Because, if we want strong, united, motivated armed forces, we must want them to be able to be even stronger, united and motivated. Because if we do not want to create these conditions, we cannot complain that, one day, we find out that we are demanding our Armed Forces hard to carry out due to lack of resources. Because if we do not do it in time, others will demand it for us, and then we do not complain of frustrations, disappointments, disputes or departures. Because it can be so simple to mobilize with small large gestures. To encourage those who are indispensable to serve these fundamental missions to do so with horizons of hope. To join, to the recognition of the exceptional qualities which, both inside and outside, is unanimous as to our Armed Forces, more essential means to be able to be even better and better. And to do this is not to be right or left, conservative or progressive, moderate or radical, it is to be pure and simply patriotic, in freedom and democracy. And doing this is not just a task of a President, a Parliament, a Government, that requires a continuous and effective national consensus about the Armed Forces as a crucial pillar of our collective life. We cannot applaud or even cry for greater involvement in external actions, or want them even more present in internal support, especially in extreme situations, and we think that the wars go far away, that there is much more where to spend money, that we can dispense from them to invest for the benefit of all of us. We know that even when they lack these means, they are the best of the best. But we do not get used to the simplism of converting miracles into everyday lifestyles. Let us help these miracles, especially when they respect the peace and security of all of us. in this time, when war arises as even more real, when the pandemic imposes more evident needs; in this day, when we celebrate democracy and freedom and when we realize how peace and security touch our lives, it is not too much to think, as Fatherland we are, in the armed forces we have, in what we want to have and in what we need to have. As a challenge of all, of the public authorities, of the society, of each Portuguese, of each Portuguese. Because if the Portuguese do not understand, do not adhere and do not support, there is no public power, even the most courageous or voluntary, that comes without the popular will. This popular, constant and firm will is urgently needed. So that freedom and democracy, for which April 25 has opened fundamental clues that we have continued to this day, will always live. For this dream of April 25 to live forever. But above all, so that Portugal will live forever. They live freedom and democracy! Long live April 25th! Viva, no less than that, Portugal! [[PSP, PSD, PAN and L, standing, CH, IL, PCP and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-25.u19	The Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLVIII Anniversary of 25 April 1974 is closed. [[It was 11 hours and 46 minutes.]]
