ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to begin our session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. There is reading of file to do, for what I address Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u2	Mr President, very late to all and to all. I shall take account of the initiatives that have taken place in the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President. I begin by referring to Bill No 53 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 12. the Commission. Bill Nos 398 / XV / 1 also entered. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 12. the Commission, 399 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 400 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 401 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 402 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 403 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 404 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 405 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 406 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 409 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 410 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 411 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 412 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 413 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, and 414 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 7 / XV / 1 also entered. a ( PSD ). Resolution Projects Nos 313 / XV / 1 have also been entered. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 314 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 315 / XV / 1. a (IL), 316 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 317 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 318 / XV / 1. a ( PAR), 319 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 320 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 321 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 322 / XV / 1. a ( CH). I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Let us start the first item on the agenda, which is made up of political statements. Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor to give the political statement of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we were children, we all dreamed of being, one day, doctors, nurses, tourists, politicians, firefighters or police. With the development of age, there are few who can realize their child's dreams. The reality is that I never knew a child who had a dream one day to be an activist. We often try in this House to humanize the stories we bring here so that, out there, they actually understand what we are talking about. So today, I will do the same and speak-CL-I will-you of Peter, a superhero of burden, who carried out his dreams as a child and achieved what few can: realize the dream in duplicate. Yesterday I spoke to Pedro, who told me he had come home after leaving the fire department at 6:00 a.m. He had time to take a bath and say goodbye to his children and, at 9 a.m., he joined the PSP (PSC) team where he is head. Pedro accumulates two jobs, he's a cop and a fireman, he serves our population. We, the 230 sitting here, often don't think about Peter — and the Peters —, we, the 230, certainly at the time when Peter was on the street helping families after the storm, were at home, watching a television channel any one and praying that the weather would pass and the lives would be saved. But at that time, Peter was out there. Peter has felt what the system is, he is a victim of the system for lack of recognition in his career, but he is also a victim because he knows perfectly that the successive governments do not govern, do not respect territorial cohesion, do not foresee planning and let things go. Our territory has been increasingly lacking in investment, it has no cohesion, it has no prevention. It is said, in Trás-os-Montes, that it is usually six months of winter and six months of hell. But then we remember the algorithm, when it comes and says that, after all, it could have burned 80 % more or that 67% of the rain planned for the month fell on the same day. Was it perhaps the algorithm that gave the majority to the Socialist Party? It's a wrong algorithm! [[Congrats from the CH.]] This algorithm has led the government to manage on time and on the map, according to what happens on television at eight o'clock in the evening: in summer we discussed the lack of cleaning of the forests, in winter we discussed the lack of cleaning of the sardines. We have a problem of lack of cleaning with this government, clearly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u6	The National Association of Portuguese Municipalities defends the government more than the municipalities with the government and therefore also has a lot of responsibility. But the responsibility of some municipalities and some camera presidents is not today. In the past, Antonio Costa, at the time President of the Lisbon Chamber, sent to the drawer the Lisbon drainage plan. This is one of the names that should be recorded on the walls at full level: Antonio Costa. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u7	You son of a bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u8	But it should also be recorded the name « Fernando Medina », the now Minister of Finance, who also completely ignored the Lisbon drainage plan. Finally, Carlos Moedas, who says it is now — now it is! He says that in March, he will do the works and the drainage plan and, at the same time, while going through the crowd, almost populist, claiming that in 5 minutes, he called 24 joint presidents, the now President of the House says that he will give support to the economy and those who have lost their assets worth 3 million euros, a pompous number for those who are at home, but who actually represent 0, 002 % of the budget of the City Council of Lisbon. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u9	The City Council of Lisbon has a budget of EUR 1300 million—of direct taxes is EUR 497 million, EUR 126 million is the tax you so much like, the IMI (municipal property tax) — and, to rehabilitate people's homes, will invest EUR 3 million. You want a name for this? It's embarrassing! Carlos Coedas, it would be appropriate to say: « They are not coins, they are changes what is giving the Lisboa! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] The accounts in which the Portuguese no longer believe, the certain accounts of this government and these municipalities, which, after all, fail completely, are the same accounts with which the police, firefighters, civil protection, municipal police, municipal officials, without conditions, without career progress, without wage improvement, continued on that infinable night to support the population and to fight for the heritage of all of us. I speak of those who, while we are at home, continue outside, those who, like Peter, go home, say goodbye to their children and say « until tomorrow, my love», without knowing whether, on the next day, they return home and see their families again, because they have the motto « life for life», and the reality is that they give life for the population, when you do not care about territorial cohesion, land planning, planning. That sounds like something that doesn't matter, because we, the 230s, get out of here and we're gonna be happy going home.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u10	Speak for yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u11	The PSD also screams, it is true, and they can come after us as they have done in recent times. This Peter and the other Pedros are those we want in the history of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u13	We believe that it will be the Pedros who, together with the André, the Pedro, the Rui, the Filipe, the Jorge, will make the history of Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen, you are also part of this story. They do not stand out, because we want them to be part of history, but we want, above all, that history changes, that in 2026 you are a closed chapter, that allows us to write the worthy pages that Portugal and the Portuguese deserve and that finally meet Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u14	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification, to which I assume he is responding in a bloc.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u15	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u16	The first request for clarification is the PSD. You have the floor to make it up, Mr Luís Gomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u17	Mr President, Mr Bruno Nunes, I have listened carefully to your words and I have noted that you, perhaps to bleach the government's inability to prevent it, have decided to attack the PSD... [[PSD applause.]] ... and the President of the House of Lisbon, who provided assistance to people injured by the storms only equal to the value of the Municipal Emergency Fund which the Government of the Socialist Party adopted in terms of the State Budget. Three million euros is what the Socialist Party, the Government, has at the heart of the State Budget for the whole country, but criticism is that the President of the Lisbon Chamber will make the same amount available only to the city of Lisbon. [[PSD applause.]] But I must say that you have been speaking for six minutes and that in six minutes I have not heard a single proposal for the country, just to say wrong, wrong, wrong, criticise and not a proposal. What makes us different from VV. Ex. we have proposals, we have a plan, we have solutions for the country. [[CH protests.]] It was because of this that we presented, within the State budget, a proposal to strengthen the Municipal Emergency Fund, which was plunged by the Socialist Party,... [[PSD applause.]] ... and that we proposed the financing of the assessment of the seismic vulnerability of buildings that would pass to municipalities in the framework of decentralization of competences, which was plunged by the Socialist Party. It is also because of this circumstance that we will bring, during the next week, an amendment to the Legal Regime of the Territorial Management Instruments to be discussed here in this House, so that we can have a law on the ordering of the territory that leaves words and becomes concrete. What we basically do not want is that the agreements to compensate the populations after a disaster such as the depression of Elsa and Fabien are signed only two years — two years! — after the incidences, like what happened in the Caramulo greenhouse. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u18	You now have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u19	Mr President, Mr Bruno Nunes, we are grateful for the issue that has brought us here, even though we have come to the side of an opportunity to take a serious approach. And he has stopped addressing this issue seriously for various reasons in his speech. Of course, to be talking about dreams and life expectations and come to give the example of the bulldozers,... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u20	...one who lives torturing an animal, on the subject of these, is not only completely absurd as it still undermines activists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u21	Respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u22	Of course, no one ever dreams of being an activist is part of the nature of each one — point! — but this is completely happening next to the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u23	Respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u24	On the other hand, we have heard about the role that all men have in what is being done. Well, we recognize the role that everyone has in helping and helping the people, but I remember that this role is not only for men, it is also for many women who are on the ground,... [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] ...and about that we didn't even hear a word from the side of arrive. But let's go to what's serious, sir. It is only yesterday that the NAP has introduced three initiatives on this subject, but we have not heard a single proposal or solution put forward by the Arrival. I ask you whether or not you are available to follow up on proposals which, of course, acknowledge the importance of something neither the government nor the authorities have done, which is the declaration of the disaster situation. at this moment, even to activate the Municipal Emergency Fund, this is absolutely essential. On the other hand, it is also important to close the possibility of indebtedness that the authorities will have to deal with the whole situation, which, without financial mechanisms that allow them to exceed the debt limit, is hardly going to happen. It could have chosen to make this debate and bring serious proposals here, but, no, it once again exalted its baffling agenda, which is clearly not of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u25	To reply, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by replying to Mrs PAN. What seems incongruity is to realize that your ex-leader was to an association such as the Ground of the Bites, after flooding and the animals were practically submerged, return the dog that he had adopted there. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is that it is populism and anything we don't know well what it is. But, you know, in Loures, where you have a municipal deputy—or a municipal deputy, so there are no gender problems—, after the destruction of the Kilom factory, where 300 families worked, the NAP voted against the free licensing allocation for its reconstruction, arguing that what the company does is kill animals for food. Therefore, as far as hypocrisy is concerned, I could spend a lot of time talking to you, but I have serious difficulty talking to someone who does not have a concrete proposal, a political intervention. The proposals are presented in State Budget and, unlike you, we do not do business at the closed door with the PS. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We do not do any business of being here and getting there and, during the vote, we say 'I am sorry, Mr President, after all I am going to change the sense of vote', because on the other hand you were told that you approved your proposals. You are the new PEV (The Green Party) of the PS, and we don't speak anymore. Mr Luís Gomes, with all my consideration for you on the issue of « going to the trailer », knows perfectly what happens. In fact, we could start doing one before and after, except that it would not be with the fat and the lean, it would be with the proposal of the Arrival and, minutes later, that of Luís Montenegro. That's what you guys do. So you always come after us and the bullshit is a lot. [[The PSD Member Luís Gomes's laughs.]] As far as the Municipal Emergency Fund is concerned, we have a lot of difficulty in understanding, that is, in fact, today in committee, who did not approve the coming of Carlos Coedas to Parliament was the Socialist Party. In the central block they protect each other! In the background, there is a reality that is clear, which is what happens to your elected members and to the municipal chambers themselves. Today, even today, I am afraid that when you come to talk about the Municipal Emergency Fund, you are referring to your emergency in solving what is happening, from north to south, with your autarchs, because now you too are full of defendants. So let's see if we understand each other's proposals. Specifically, how did you vote on the proposals we have put forward in the State budget for the volunteer firefighters? They abstained!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u27	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u28	Do you know who's on the street cleaning up? It's not the Carlos Coedas, it's the volunteer firemen, you've never valued! They are the volunteer firefighters, whose appreciation proposals you have refused! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Take it easy, Mrs. Member. Ask, you'll talk. They never let her talk during this legislature, but ask her to come forward. Take it easy, you don't have to scream like that. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Decentralization is the result of a bad policy of yours and for which you shout so much today. But Law No. 50 / 2018 was passed among you, at a time when Rui Rio said that it would never be opposition, but that it would be collaboration. They have changed as leader, but collaboration continues. Therefore, be serious, come the debate, that the proposals are presented in their own place. The PSD, as always, either abstains or leaves the room, because it has no political intervention capacity and leaves itself silent. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u29	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u30	Mr. President, it is to ask for the honour of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u31	You can do this at the end of the debate. We will move on to the political declaration of the Liberal Initiative. To that end, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There are still several months left for the annual debate of the State of the Nation, but we do not have to wait for this milestone in the parliamentary calendar to make diagnoses and balances. At any time, this exercise can and should be done. And the appropriate moment is this, when the nation has just entered the eighth year followed by socialist governance, a government with the indelible brand of Antonio Costa — the same as as as a young candidate for the President of the City Hall of Loures, it was remembered 30 years ago to organize a race between a donkey and a Ferrari to demonstrate that it was possible to arrive faster in Lisbon by resorting to animal transport. Both later, now as Prime Minister, Antonio Costa behaves a little as at that time. He renounces Ferrari and chooses the donkey, thinking that he can bring Portugal closer to European standards more quickly. The result, unfortunately, is in sight: a inclined country, stuck to a tragic trilogy of aging, coastalization and emigration. The most perfect X-ray of the nation's state was provided by the final results of Census 2021, an X-ray of a depressed, unbalanced, unequal, aged country without hope or direction. And what do these numbers reveal to us? In 10 years, the population decreased by 2, 1 %, minus 200 000 people. Today there is a higher trend of aging, with 182 elderly people per 100 young people in Portugal. And, for every 100 individuals who leave the labour market, only 76 enter, which naturally threatens the solidity of the achievements of the social state. We lived in a demographic winter that began to be dramatic: while in 2000 the birth rate was 11 / 1000, in 2021 it was 7 / 1000. Generations do not renew and the population of active age is occupying an ever-increasing plot. To aggravate the situation, we now have 20 % of the population accumulated by only 1, 1 % of the total area of the country, with a large part of the territory leaving. This demonstrates the shocking macrocephaly of the country. On the one hand, we have an aging country and, on the other, a centralized and coastal country. And the generation that we say is the best prepared ever to opt more and more for not staying in Portugal. The nation with Antonio Costa for seven consecutive years as Prime Minister is not even for young people. It is a worrying reality: the country has witnessed the greatest outbreak of migration since the 1960s, a real brain drain, and no longer just what is referred to as "working hand". Portugal is today the country of the European Union with more emigrants in proportion to the resident population. Our young people, more informed and qualified than the previous generation, are looking for other destinations. Exactly why? Because they know that here they're only waiting for immobilism. More than that, with the broken social elevator, in a country where merit is little recognized and the fruit of work is over-taxed. « Flying low» seems to be the motto of this PS by António Costa. Almost half a century after the implementation of democracy and 36 years after we entered Community Europe, this younger generation is forced to leave the country, looking for other destinations where it finds professional stability and wages two or three times higher. Just last year, almost 70,000 left. Unfortunately, many will never come back at once. If they came back, what would you expect? A country in constant declines in development rates. at the point of warning the European Commission, in 2024, we are at risk of staying behind Romania in GDP ( gross domestic product ) per capita, after having been exceeded in recent years by countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Estonia and Lithuania. They would also find the recent miracle of measurements—it is not a miracle of appearances, it is even a miracle of measurements. Yes, because the younger ones hear a minister boast that we are the only country where students learned more during the pandemic. Is it better to stay home than to go to school? Even when a recent study rejects the minister's optimism, revealing that the symptoms of depression affect 42% of Portuguese adolescents, among other worrying data. Just a socialist miracle. Young people are with more mental health problems, but in school results are the champions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : Returning to the old metaphor that the current Prime Minister has used, this is a country in constant disparity with Europe, fearing to go with ash, while the countries with whom we compete walk from Ferrari, lead to more prosperous horizons. It is a country in which the tax machine, led by the socialists, can increasingly collect tax revenues, at the expense of impoverishment of what remains of the middle class. It is a country where 1 million and a half citizens do not have a family doctor, where the number of those who are deprived of hospital care is increasing in good time, urgent care, consultations and surgeries. When the previous great rounds took place in Lisbon, in 2014 Antonio Costa, then President of the Chamber, attributed guilt to the whims of St. Pedro. He then said « S. Peter enjoys an immunity status which is above his responsibilities". António Costa thus showed his style of doing politics: pushing the problems with the belly, changing the serious debate by graces, but more serious, dealing only with the environment, without ever solving the structural issues. He acted like an author, he behaves like a head of government. in an adjourned country, in an ageing, desertified country and with 20 % of the emigrant population. in a country condemned to stagnation and eternally waiting for better times that fear not to come. This country, with Antonio Costa at the helm, remains condemned to go as an ass. But there are those who don't sign up. Some believe in Portuguese potential. If they win out there, they can win on their land, obviously if they have opportunities. This is what the Liberal Initiative gives them and will give them: opportunities to be happy, to be successful, to see the rebirth of hope. Because, yes, liberalism works and Portugal is needed. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u33	Six of them were registered. Members to make requests for clarification, to which Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva will respond in two blocks of three. For the first request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your statement was, as I said at the outset, an intervention which is much more appropriate for a debate on the general state of the nation and, therefore, we will certainly have an opportunity to talk about it. Mr President, regardless of the content that you brought us on the census report, I would like to ask you a question about how all this happened and how the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) opened the procedure for Census 2021. I am referring to the fine applied by the CNPD ( National Data Protection Commission ), a single fine of EUR 4, EUR 3 million to the INE, and to the inertia and omission of responsibility of the PS Government, since March 2021, when this situation was known. CNPD, in a cautious and rapid manner, managed to prevent 10 million data from being transmitted to the United States, but only 6 million data, and that is why it was not worse. I would like to ask you if the Liberal Initiative actually accompanies these concerns with regard to this responsibility and, more importantly, if you are concerned about the fact that this company is allowed to transmit the data it collects to the United States because it is not obliged to the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) — not to have entered into a contract under public procurement. It is that INE did not do so under public procurement. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you whether you are accompanied by these two concerns of the Democratic Social Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u35	Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, the arrival accompanies and has always accompanied, since its foundation, all the concerns that you have brought us here, and I thank you for that. Of course, the concern about demographic winter, the concern about low birth rates in Portugal and the concern about brain drain, which is happening in Portugal at this time, for many countries in Europe and third countries, including brain drain in the field of health, is a subject I have often addressed in this House. In fact, much of the doctors and nurses we are training today in Portugal are fleeing abroad, where they will seek better working conditions — another fatality we are having in Portugal. We have noted, however, that you have been absent from Mr Another concern: the scourge of loneliness and single-parent families. We are told by these censuses, which you have mentioned, that in Portugal there is a huge number of people living alone and that 25% of families are single parents. In Portugal, 25% of the families consist only of a father or a mother, with 85% of the families consisting of a mother with children and 14% of the parents with children. Now, the situations that these numbers reflect have a great impact on mental health and on the follow-up of Portuguese. So I'd like to hear about this. I would also like to hear it, Mr President, about the fine that the INE has been charged for passing on to the United States millions of data from Portuguese, including health data, which have been perceived by the Portuguese as mandatory response data and which are currently in part uncertain, is not well known where. We therefore once again have the Portuguese Government obliging private companies to a certain regulation, to the data protection regime, but it does not require institutions which are under its scope to use the same criteria and to take the same care with the data of the Portuguese. I'd like to hear you talk about it. I would also like to remind you that the Liberal Initiative is still a party to the big cities. This is because this House sent the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power to Bragança — one of the districts that most people have lost — and the Liberal Initiative has not been represented. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u37	That is why it is not worth going to the rostrum to show great concern when then the Members of the Liberal Initiative are not going to the territories, they are not going to the real Portugal, they will not hear the problems of our country. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u38	To request clarification, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u39	Mr. President, good afternoon to all. I would like to begin by welcoming the Liberal Initiative for bringing this issue to debate, because it is a subject on which it is worth agreeing and worth disagreeing. Above all, it is worth 'dropping stone' on an issue that is essential for our future and that has to do with the question of what development model Portugal must have in order to retain talent, to retain qualifications and to achieve a more valuable economy. As far as this is concerned, we may have differences, but one thing certainly approaches us: it is preferable every day of our mandate to "drop stone" on this matter of what, as often happens, to spend agenda time on the case and on the media house on the eve, which will not take us anywhere but to politics to talk about itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u40	It must be! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u41	The Liberal Initiative has a diagnosis, of which I partially disagree, that focuses very much on emigration of qualified young people in the fiscal issue. I believe that this diagnosis is misleading, because it is true that people emigrate to some countries where they will pay less taxes, but many of the qualified young Portuguese people emigrate to countries in Scandinavia, Central Europe, North Europe, where the tax burden can even be higher than in Portugal. They do so because they find high-quality public services there, which are funded by progressive taxes. They do so because they find, above all, an ecosystem in which their talents allow today to have a good job and tomorrow to have another job that performs them, with high wages. These systems were built not by an obsession with liberalization and deregulation, but on the basis of a dialogue in which several political families participated, including liberals, certainly, but liberals who did not have an anti-state obsession, anti-socialism, anti-left. To a large extent, the European social model was made by PPE parties, socialists, European environmentalists, even Euro-Communists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u42	Mr. Deputies, I appreciate your conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u43	I conclude, Mr. President. Therefore, the request for clarification, which is at the same time a request for a deeper and more fruitful debate on this subject, is that the Liberal Initiative can do so by admitting progressive taxation and also the ability to provide high-quality public services, much beyond taxation or even more than taxation, since these are attractive factors for those who emigrate. Our concentration should be in attracting factors for whom we want it to remain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u44	To reply, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u45	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Marcia Passos, Mr Frazão and Mr Rui Tavares for the questions they have raised. With regard to Mrs Márcia Passos' questions, I would like to say that we not only accompany the concerns which you have conveyed here, as at the time, as you mentioned, we had a public position demonstrating this concern about what was happening. As for the GDPR and the Public Contracts Code—because it has focused on both, although they are different themes, and Mr Frazão also spoke on this subject—I think it is consensual for all people, for all parties, for all organizations, to be public, be private, whether the GDPR or the Public Contracts Code, but above all the GDPR, are quite complex challenges, so the care of the organizations is superior to the normal care to be taken. There is a very interesting question that applies not only to the GDPR theme but also to others, which is the fact that the State does not apply to itself what it requires and which applies to private institutions. Even last week we had a political statement point on the agenda of the plenary and, in the intervention of the Liberal Initiative, we gave an example of small and medium-sized enterprises to be fined by ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) because the numbers on the website do not have the reference if they are mobile, or not, when the ASAE website itself does not have that identification. So, yes, this is a country of two systems. The State shall apply to others what does not apply to it. With regard to the case that you talked about CNPD and the fine you imposed on INE, I would like to say two things. The first is that this case shows that there are institutions working. In other words, the CNPD has worked, and so we must all boast, as political representatives, that an institution is working. The second, as I have said, and we agree — was another example of how the government, in one case, as I also pointed out in my initial speech, was'strengthening with the belly' to see if the issue was going on, if it was forgotten, but it was not forgotten and the fine arrived. On the questions of Mr Frazão, I have already answered on this issue of GDPR and the fine imposed on INE. In addition, we also share the concerns that you have expressed, for example, the question of loneliness. The Census provides us with a lot of information and a lot of concerns. Unfortunately, 6 minutes is not enough time to talk about all of them, not just loneliness, but many others. Perhaps we could even, by consensus among all of us at the next Conference of Leaders, mark a special debate only on the Censuses for all of us to discuss the conclusions, facts and data that the Censuses demonstrate to us. With regard to the last detail of the failures in Bragança, Mr, I am not going to enter into a debate where we are making complaints about each other about who you were and who you were not, because the Arrival also has its failures and we do not use the metric tape as a political tool for political debate in plenary. With regard to Mr Rui Tavares, taking only the example of the Nordic countries you spoke about, the honourable Member finally gave the answer. It was a good question and the honourable Member even gave the answer saying that in those countries, which can even have heavier tax systems than ours, public services work, which is exactly the opposite of what happens here, where they don't work — we can talk about health and we can talk about education. Do you know any further details, Your Honor? Many of these public services are provided by private people in these countries. It's another big difference! And it is how we defend that it should be in Portugal. There are public services that do not have to be provided by the State alone. It's a difference we have and with a lot of honor. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u46	To ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Alexandra Leitão of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u47	Mr President, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, first of all, wanted to begin by welcoming the fact that the Liberal Initiative has brought us a matter which, of course, should concern us all and which must be discussed in this House. Even knowing that this birthbreak, this demographic breakdown is a trend in other European countries, of course we should be concerned about. The question is to know where we would be without a social state. Where would women want to be mothers with the deregulation of labour legislation? Where would women and men be, who in this case also want to be parents, without free foster care, without public school? Where would birth and demography be, in a situation where public services would not respond? It is not worth the argument of 'public services provided by private', because a certain obsession with cheque-teaching would lead us to have to discuss much further on why that is not the solution. What would be the social elevator in Portugal without the public school? Now that we are talking about Romania, Romania may eventually in two years—and are forecasts—to have a higher per capita GDP. You know why? Because in recent years it has lost 10 % of its population. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it is a matter of mere accounts, it is a matter of mere arithmetic. It has worse indicators of infant mortality, has worse indicators of poverty rate and population at risk of poverty. So the question I leave is: for the Liberal Initiative, and for the programme we know, how does it feel that these conditions can be improved with, for example, a deregulation of the labour market, since one of the major problems women have when they want to be mothers is exactly at the labour market level? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u48	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the Liberal Initiative because this is really very important. In fact, the demographic deficit is one of the highest in our country, being a structural deficit that has to be overcome, and the Census gives us a clear picture of the problem and also some clues about its reasons and possible solutions. If we do a joint reading between censuses, surveys and fertility we have very obvious answers. First, we know that more than half of men and women in Portugal would like to have children or would like to have more children than those they have. We also know that more than 57% of women who want to have children, but who have not yet, do not have them for financial reasons, 48% for matters of professional progression, 51% raise housing issues. So here are some clues that are effectively valid. This is good news and bad news. They are good news because there are solutions to these problems, namely concrete proposals that go through an increase in wages, a regulation of the world of work, the fight against precariousness, respect for paternity and maternity rights, the creation of public equipment, such as day care centres, which respond to this need. The bad news is that the Liberal Initiative always joins the PS and PSD to bring these same proposals down. We have two very recent examples that I would like to remind you of. One of them concerns the issue that we discussed last week from the reduction of working hours to 35 hours, to free up time for the family, for example, and to increase the value of work, and the Liberal Initiative stood against. in another example, if we want to increase the minimum wage, the Liberal Initiative has stood against. Now, the question is very simple: how is it that a family in which, eventually, each of the possible parents earns 700 € will assume responsibility for having a child? This is an incontrovertible issue. The second question is: why does the Liberal Initiative insist on solutions that are beaten and that have proved fruitless? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u50	The last request for clarification to Mr Rodrigo Saraiva belongs to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u51	Mr President, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, I would like to congratulate you on the subject that brings us to the Censuses, but, after listening to your speech, in which you spoke about health, full, emigration, mental health - finally, it was a pot-porri of subjects - the conclusion was: socialism is bad, liberalism is good. That's it! This is the debate that you brought us here. Talking about everything is usually a good way of not saying anything about anything. We were thus left without understanding, as it almost always happens, what is the alternative of the Liberal Initiative. The Liberal Initiative is very good at pointing out the problem, but very abstract in the solutions it proposes. Let's go to health. What does the Liberal Initiative propose to someone who has no health? Go private! We went to school. You don't have a school, do you have a higher education? Get a loan! Let's go to the salary. You don't have a decent salary. What does the Liberal Initiative do? What is the recommendation that the Liberal Initiative gives when the market does not offer a decent wage to work? The honourable Member tells us about the emigration of young people by saying « young people emigrate because they lack dynamism and a spirit of vision, young people emigrate because they lack recognition of merit, young people emigrate because the tax burden is excessive ». Mr. Member, the young people emigrate because the salary they receive is €800 and the household income is €700! That is why young people emigrate and, in both cases, it is the market that condemns them to wages of €800 and incomes of €700! Therefore, Mr President, tell us what the solution of the Liberal Initiative is. There's no, there's no, it's indisputable! The solution of the Liberal Initiative is indisputable, because markets are low wages, because markets are high incomes and markets are youth emigration. This is the only logical consequence for the proposals of the Liberal Initiative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u52	To reply, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u53	Mr President, I would like to thank Members Alexandra Leitão, Alma Rivera and Mariana Mortagua, who could almost have combined and only one would have asked the questions, because they only differentiated in form. The criticisms they made to the Liberal Initiative, with the rhetoric questions they asked, were exactly the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u54	The management's there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u55	So perhaps you choose to respond to the three in the same way, addressing Mrs Alma Rivera in particular now to tell her that we do not always have to do this kind of intervention of "you have led our initiatives!" Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That's normal, if we disagree, let's chum them. I could also come and say, as I have already told you sometimes, that we have dropped ours, which is normal, there is no need to make this a great social or political drama. This is normal, it's called democracy. And to say that the proposals of the Liberal Initiative have never worked, somewhere, good, this coming from the PCP, with the communist ideas, I apologize, but that is where we really have a big difference, because they are fact, is history. [[IL and CH rice.]] A few months ago, in a debate with your parliamentary leader Paula Santos, I was asking you to give me an example of a country where the proposals that the Communist Party defended had worked, and the honourable Member could not say. In fact, he referred to Portugal from 1974 to 1975, so in the rest of the world, in fact, does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u56	Great advance!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u57	With regard to health, education and even labour issues, it is funny that the proposals we recommend work in other countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u58	Ah! Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u59	And, curiously, are those countries where Portuguese, and especially young Portuguese, are emigration. And why? Yes, because of higher wages. Mrs Mariana Mortágua came to talk about the 800 € and the rents, all of these things, but the facts are these. Let us then to a concrete example, which we will repeat several times here, then the Polygraph says that it is true what we are saying: a young man wins 1000 €, has merit and is recognized in the company, being increased to 1100 € ; it is all happy ; but then, when he looks at the receipt of the salary, there are not the 1100 €, nor are there 1050 €, there is less money because half of that increase remains in the State pocket. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias and BE MP Mariana Mortágua.]] Of course, you later come to say 'ai, public services', but we return to our conversation. Public services do not always have to be provided by the State, there are other solutions. If there is a party that advocates a true universal access to education either to health is the Liberal Initiative. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u60	We now move on to the political declaration of the CFP. To that end, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first word is of solidarity and appreciation — solidarity with all the victims of the floods that have plagued several regions of our country, with grave damage to their lives, their businesses, their goods and dwellings; and I appreciate for all those who have fought the consequences of this storm, whether they are firefighters and other civil protection agents, forces and security services, workers of local authorities and various public services, who, despite their daily denial of rights, pay and recognition, give everything to respond to problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u63	Solidarity and appreciation that they do not remove the need to once again — unfortunately, once again — we must bring to this plenary the problem of the lack of planning and planning measures in the territory which prevent such events. We do not deny that climate change has increased the frequency of these disasters, but climate change has broad backs when political power wants to de-responsibility of the options taken over decades, in a problem that is not new.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u65	We recall the full November 1967, where more than 700 people died and 20,000 houses were destroyed, full of the outraged living conditions, the lack of any urban planning, the lack of basic infrastructure, where the culture of risk was non-existent, because the lives of the poor were of little value to the fascist regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u67	It was the time of the partial urbanization plans, a planning fixation creating urban nuclei intended for a minority of the population, pushing most of those who migrated from the interior of the country, to escape to poverty, to unurbanized outskirts where the neighborhoods of barracks bloomed. It was with April 25 that the first law of the soils, which criminalized the misuse of the soil, defined priority urban areas, allowing the source of democratic local power to plan urban growth. But quickly the governments of right-wing policy, PS, PSD and CDS, tried to reverse the progressive logic of this first land law. First, with the promotion of a logic centered on large urban expansions, without control, with the already privatized bank benefiting from the raising of land income associated with existing or expected real estate, a logic reflected in the law of 1998 by João Cravinho. Later, with the law of 2014, of Moreira da Silva, logic becomes another, it becomes that of the exploitation of urban centers for speculation and unbridled tourism, complemented with the expulsion of residents through the law of waste, of Assumption Cristas, and with the unacceptable smoothing of seismic safety standards. The times have changed, the will of financial capital and its appetite for land income have changed. What has not changed was the submission of land use policies to financial interests, with PS, PSD and CDS to bet on maximum profit logics for real estate and banking promoters, neglecting a planning, sorting policy, respect for nature and its limits of occupation, with the consequences in view. Wrong planning policies in the territory translate into numbers. Between 1995 and 2007, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the construction in flood areas by progressive fills grew 51 %, the construction in flood areas by rapid fills grew 39 %, the construction in the coastline of the 500 m grew 23 % and the construction in hazardous areas increased 72 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal needs to step back in the policies of urbanism and ordination of the territory, it needs to reverse the logic of construction in full bed and in areas where fillings are difficult to counter it is necessary not to densify occupation. It needs to impose the duty to prevent risk and to conduct public investment that can mitigate these risks with drainage axes, green corridors, linear parks along banks and rivers. To this end, it needs to allow municipalities to use Community funds for these investments instead of being excluded within the framework of Community frameworks. It needs to respect the planning instruments, rather than be run over whenever the economic interest overlaps, as in the case of the construction of the CUF Hospital in Alcântara. It needs to invest in civil protection, give labour and social conditions to all workers who perform the functions of civil protection agents. Above all, it is necessary to comply with the principle that the management of the land and the city and not the interests of the financial capital, which, by its nature, has as its sole concern the immediate profit. For this path of fundamental response to the problems of spatial planning, which are at the basis of the problems of the full, can count on the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u68	Mr President, the Bureau records five entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u69	Mr President, I will answer the first two and then the other three.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u70	So the first request for clarification belongs to Mr. João Barbosa de Melo, of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the CFP Parliamentary Group on bringing this issue from the planning of the territory to debate on this most urgent issue that has entered our eyes in recent days, which were the full and the misfortunes they have brought. The PSD is very proud in its history and, throughout it, has given several proofs that this is, for us, a very important issue. In fact, we have done so again in this Parliament: we have already brought a number of initiatives, and we will continue to bring, to improve the state of our spatial planning. It's been a long time, it's true, but in the 1980s and 1990s it took a lot of courage for a state secretary of a PSD government to move forward with demolition of houses in natural parks, in coastal areas, areas where the market occupied wildly. And it was by the hand of the PSD that this job was done. Clearly, we all know that sometimes it rains. Sometimes it rains little — for some time it rains little — sometimes it rains too much. But we can't wait for it to rain too much or less to prepare ourselves collectively for what happens. And that is clearly what the planning of the territory is: the way a society is organized so that these situations occur less often or have less serious consequences. For this, we all know well in this House, there is a need for something that has failed the government and most that supports it: courage is needed. We're not going there pushing the belly forward, taking into account that these problems don't exist until the next problem comes. It takes courage! And I wanted to make it very clear here, before the parliamentary group that brought this matter to us and before the whole House: if the government and the majority that supports it are available with courage to confront this problem, here will be the PSD fulfilling its role, as it has always been in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u72	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the PS, Mr Hugo Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u73	Mr President, I would like to greet Mr Duarte Alves for bringing this very relevant issue, the planning of the territory and the consequences that the last few days have had on the excess impermeability, especially in large cities, but not only in small territories. The honourable Member said that climate change had broad backs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u74	And they have!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u75	No, climate change is a reality, it's a reality that's here. In fact, extreme events are increasingly a reality and, therefore, we need to know, understand and be sensitive to this. I had the opportunity to hear the political declaration of the Arrival and to see that there have been zero times of climate change, zero times of the problems of extreme events—of extreme drought, fires, rains and precipitation as never before seen, for example, in Lisbon. [[CH protests.]] Portugal has played a pioneer role and has been at the forefront of combating climate change. In fact, during the COP ( Conference of the Parties ), at the last climate conference, there was a study in which Portugal was one of the 11 countries that has been most able to combat and is better combat climate change, although we are a country that, as a result of our situation, is vulnerable, especially to rising seas, droughts, rains and floods. I also want to tell the PSD that the lack of courage has always been a characteristic of your party in the fight against climate change. And, honourable Member, be aware that the first true soil policy in Portugal was implemented by the Socialist Party at the time by the then Secretary of State Nuno Portas. We are proud of all territorial management instruments. In fact, it was during the Socialist Party's government that the PDMs, municipal directors' plans, with zero balance, i.e. to avoid excess waterproofing in cities. It is clear that several errors have been made by various authorities. Example of this same is the AUGI, urban areas of illegal genesis. If we look at them, we realize that there are about 17 AUGI in Portugal. More than half of these AUGI are in municipalities of the Communist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u76	But the houses were there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u77	... which is today the party that brings here the greatest concern about territorial planning and management, when it is in the councils run by the Communist Party that there are more problems of territorial management.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u78	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u79	In fact, if we go to Odivelas, if we go to Loures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u80	You know what you're talking about? Oh, my God! He doesn't even know where Odivelas is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u81	...if we go to other places, we realize that the Communist Party always promoted the AUGI and let it happen and expand. So the question that I ask is this: do you agree that the AUGI, the urban areas of illegal genesis, and the people who live in them, are one of the main problems in these full cases? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH, IL and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u82	To reply, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u83	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Deputies João Barbosa de Melo and Hugo Pires. Starting with the PSD, he said that the PSD was proud of its history and spoke of the 80s. I wonder if you are proud of your most recent history, for example, of the law of 2014, which brutally eased seismic responsibility in real estate rehabilitation. This is a law of which I believe the PSD should not be proud, because this law has lightened the seismic reinforcement of buildings,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u84	Acoustic, thermal, etc. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u85	... that it is so important for these issues of ordination and security of populations. Then the honourable Member says you need to be brave, but you need to have courage in front of whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u86	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u87	Who needs courage? Oh, my God! In the face of real estate funds, before the interests that always pass over the planning instruments of the territory, as happened in the case of the CUF in Alcântara. That is the courage you need to have and that has often missed both PS and PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u89	Mr Hugo Pires, the climate change, as I have obviously mentioned in my speech, has an impact on the growth of these types of phenomena, but it is also true that they have broad backs, because climate change is attributed to a problem that has existed for many years...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u90	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u91	... and that has been in Lisbon since the 1960s, the 1970s and the 1980s.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u92	100 years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u93	This is a reality that has been happening for many years and reveals that, beyond climate change, there is also a major failure in planning and planning the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u94	And it rains in December, which is not normal either! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u95	That is the question we wanted to bring, so that it would not go over this problem and the decades of responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u96	Never rain in December? Oh, my God! If it was in August...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u97	On the AUGI, Member of Parliament, in the authorities you referred to, he noticed that these neighborhoods were there before 25 April. They were responsible for the fascist regime and the policy that was created.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u98	It's fake! The Portela da Azoia is your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u99	Since then, if there is a party, if there is an authentic force that has solved these problems, it has been the CDU (Unitarian Democratic League ). [[CH protests.]] And if we have an AUGI law in Portugal, this is also due to the intervention of the CFP in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u101	Therefore, Mr President, our intervention in this respect has been fundamental to solving the problems created by the Fascist regime. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests and PCP counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u102	Let us continue with the requests for clarification, for which I call for silence. Mr Pedro Pessanha, from the Czech Republic, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u103	Mr. President, I welcome you. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Duarte Alves, in the last 150 years, there have been 115 rain events with plenty and with people having to be withdrawn or relocated, because of the waters, in the district of Lisbon, statistics, these, which cause the guilt on the ground that the left has to be attributed exclusively to climate change, My Lords. [[PCP protests.]] Full is a natural phenomenon characteristic of watercourses in regions with torrential climate regimes, as is the case in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u105	The little attention, yes, that has been given to the planning of the territory in Portugal has been paid expensively, not rarely in human lives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u106	How is it possible that, with a history of natural disasters almost every year, we continue to run after injury every year? But, above all, how is it possible for the CFP to come to speak in the planning of the territory, with the responsibility it has had in recent years to support management in the government, or in the municipalities where you were, and are still, executive? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u108	We could be hours in this plenary to discuss the problems that Portugal is facing, as a result of years of bad territorial planning policies and territorial cohesion. Finally, I will give you an example, which you know well. One of the municipalities most affected by last week's peaks, with an injury already assessed in more than 20 million euros, is Loures, a well-known council not only of the CFP, but also of the Socialist Party. Are you able to come to this Parliament and talk about what has happened in recent years when you were eight years in the executive of this council? Oh, my God! So I was grateful for these explanations. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u109	They made the ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u110	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Alves, first of all, wanted to address a word of solidarity to all the victims, to all the people who have suffered with the fillings that have existed in recent days and with the heavy rains, and also to pay tribute to all elements of civil protection, security forces, the hospital network and public services that have helped to provide answers at these difficult times. Given these initial words, I wanted to leave a concrete note of our opinion on what has happened in recent days. Some people deny climate change. We heard, even now, you're doing exactly that exercise.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u112	It was nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u113	But did I deny it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u114	The negationists have responsibilities, by leading society to believe that everything can continue as in the past, without harming the world. Don't! It's fake! Extreme climate phenomena will be increasingly recurrent and cities must be prepared for this reality. But they are almost as bad as negationists as those who recognize climate change and then think that nothing has to be done, as we often see on the side of the PSD and on the side of the Socialist Party. It is that, as far as the interests of the chambermaids are concerned, when one puts on the balance one more real estate speculation and the safeguarding of certain land, not to waterproof the city too much, we see that, often, what wins is real estate speculation, is more that business, often for the friend, is more that business that once again waterproofs the city.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u115	To Robles! The Block knows that well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u116	So we also criticize those who, knowing how bad they are doing to cities, do nothing to make it different. I ask you very directly, about what we have proposed, and I believe that we have done this in good time, in the face of the miserable theatricalization of Mr. President of the House of Lisbon, who has given proof to the military maxim that "order and counter-order give disorder" — that is what we saw most in the City Hall of Lisbon, was a mess and a President of the House who, when he is going to visit a family that is at home, because a landslide prevents him from leaving, the first thing he has to say is "well, today is going to be a different day, isn't it? », what it shows as well as he does not understand what the responsibility is at such a difficult time... [[PSD protests.]] ... and how it should be up to history and clearly failed in this challenge if it follows our proposal. We know that we need a drainage plan for the city of Lisbon, we all know that, but we consider that it is insufficient. We believe that it is also necessary to attack the waterproofing of the city and ensure that there are areas that are not waterproofed, to guarantee sponge spaces and thus safeguard the city at such difficult times. Without these changes to the territory, we will clearly not meet the challenges ahead. What I ask you is whether the CFP follows this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u117	The last request for clarification belongs to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u118	Mr President, I begin by sending a word of solidarity to all those affected by the fillings. I think that the subject, the issue of spatial planning, is quite important and I thank you for bringing it in, but I would like to understand the specific solutions, i.e. I would like it to realize, first, what were the problems of spatial planning that happened and that contributed to these problems and how they can be solved. After that step, you can do what Mr. Hugo Pires did, which was a moment of self-criticism in relation to the City Hall of Odivelas, which has been governed by the PS for many years, and also a moment of self-criticism in relation to all those councils that are, or were, governed by the PCP for a long time and that have had exactly the same problems. We are talking about Seixal, Sesimbra, who recently had floods, and who are still governed by the PCP, or then Almada and Loures, where the PCP had a strong weight in the current planning of the territory. Therefore, it would be important to explain that real estate speculation has happened in these councils, where the PCP has ruled for so long and that land planning errors are that there have been committed. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u119	To reply, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u120	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Deputies Pedro Pessanha, Pedro Filipe Soares and Carlos Guimarães Pinto. Starting with the questions put by Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto and Mr Pedro Pessanha, regarding the intervention of the CDU in some of the authorities that have been mentioned, we are very proud of the role that the CDU played in the planning of the territory in these councils. Starting precisely with Almada, after the construction of the Park of Peace in the 1990s, with what he represented as a drainage plan, there was no longer a lot of room in the Cove da Piedade.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u121	It's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u122	You see? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u123	This was the importance of the creation of the Park of Peace, an initiative of the CDU. In relation to, for example, Setúbal, such a measure criticized by the opposition was the creation of the Urban Park of Varzea, where they wanted to make urbanization. Today, the Urban Park of Várzea is flooded, but it is a park, it is not a completely waterproof urbanization, as the PS and PSD intended.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u124	The PS is the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u125	Speaking of Loures County, Mr. Members, a very important initiative of the CDU authority has recently been implemented, which was the construction of the Sacavem cane.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u126	There you go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u127	From that height that the downhill of Sacavém came out of the full map. It was a very important investment, which was devalued and criticized by the opposition, but it was the authority of the CDU that did so, and we were very proud of it as an instrument to mitigate the problems in those territories. [[PCP applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the intervention of the CDU in the planning of the territory has nothing to do with the intervention of the PS and PSD, which is marked by the waterproofing of the soils and not by the concern with the ordination of the territory. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, yes, we agree that it is necessary to have the courage to face the business logics that are often the ones that are imposed on the planning and planning of the territory. Obviously, it is necessary to reverse the policy of filling beds, preventing the implementation of new urbanization not only in these areas, but also in areas where occupation already exists and where filles are inevitable by the characteristics of the land itself. in this case, what is necessary is to reduce the density of occupation or, better, not to aggravate the density of occupation with more construction and with more load over these areas. These are fundamental measures, which require not only a verification of these policies at the local level, but above all a more general territorial planning policy, which needs to be seen at the national level. What has been lacking is measures for planning and planning the territory at national level, which, of course, has consequences at the level of each of the localities. These are political options to which PS, PSD and other parties have been very clearly associated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u128	For a political statement, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, it is estimated that 100 000 people are already working through digital platforms and 30 million people in Europe. The platforms introduced a great transformation in the ways of organizing, regulating, controlling and managing work. And they want to impose this regime as the future of working relationships in ever wider sectors of the economy. Your business model goes through the total absence of employer responsibilities and the installation of a new digital slavery that throws people out of work law. For this purpose, the platforms built a narrative and an institutional arrangement based on two large envelopes: first, the idea that they are not companies that provide services, including passenger transport, food delivery or other, but only applications that, through an algorithm, mediate between consumers and service providers; second, the idea that the workers of the platforms are, yes, companies, people/enterprises, business subjects, independent workers sovereign in the definition of hours, in the acceptance or not of tasks, disengaged from the organization and from the mechanisms of working subordination. So it is about the drivers and scams of Uber, Bolt, Uber Eats, Glovo, that bear all responsibilities. There is no minimum wage, there is no vacation, there is no occupational accident insurance paid by the company, there is no layoff rule — platforms disable the application worker, and it is already — there is no transparency or control of the algorithm and its criteria, there is no control over maximum working periods. It's just that this mess has been called into question by numerous courts around the world. In Europe alone, more than 200 decisions have come to say the obvious: the relationship between a driver or a scam and the digital platform is a working relationship between two entities — the worker and the platform. It is to the platform that belongs the main and most indispensable instrument of work, i.e. the application and the algorithm, that are never the property of the worker or even the intermediary. It is the platform that allows access to customers and, therefore, to the activity and is the platform that indicates the tasks and the time to fulfill them, that sets the prices, that receives the money from the customer and that pays a part to the worker. Anyone who walks on motorcycles or bicycles must be identified with the company logo in the thermal strip, Glovo or Uber Eats. The worker thus enters into an organization. The platform controls the worker even by permanent geolocation; it can punish him according to an evaluation, which is not voteable and does not provide for any right of reply; it can use this assessment to penalize him in the distribution of service and, therefore, in the distribution of income; it can even fire him or, in the new language of digital subordination, disable him. That is, the platform is an employer, it has the typical powers of the employer, although it exercises them through highly opaque algorithmic management. This relationship between the employer / platform and the worker must be framed by a contract of work, recognizing that it is a different type of work—of course! — with rules which are not the same, in all respects, of general rules, in a form of contract which has its specificities, no doubt, but which is subordinated work, which has rights and which is covered by the Labour Code. Portugal made a law in 2018, in accordance with the interests of multinationals, « Uber law », in spite of what were, in fact, the decisions of other countries, breaking down the platforms of any labour responsibility from the figure of the intermediary that serves to prevent the recognition of a relationship between the worker and the platform. The Socialist Party was thus able to invent a unique solution in the world, which Uber called the "gold model". Why? Because it is said in the "Uber law" that, if there are working relationships, they are with the intermediary, never with the platform, but then when it comes to applying the labour law to the intermediary, to the TVDE operator (individual and paid passenger transport in vehicles decharacterized from the electronic platform), the signs of labor of the Labour Code are very difficult to apply, because, after all, the real employers' powers of direction and discipline are on the platform. As a result, there are no work contracts with the platforms, because the law created the intermediaries; and there is no work contract with the intermediaries, because the platforms are the ones who have the powers that the law assigns to the employers. Gold model: nobody has to be the drivers and the scams!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u130	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u131	And this is what needs to be changed, because this is at the heart of the future of work. contrary to the proposal of the Portuguese Government to this House, the European Commission and, last Monday, the European Parliament itself proposed a directive on work on digital platforms which establishes, among other things, two sensible, obvious and positive things: first, that the algorithm has to be transparent, has to be voteable by the workers, it has to be regulated by law and by collective bargaining, because not everything technically possible with the algorithm is politically and socially acceptable. Thus, if applications and algorithms are used in work relations, their rules, criteria, instructions must be traceable and subject to the law of work. Yesterday, in Parliament, the Bloc was able to adopt precisely a standard on this in the debate of labour laws. Secondly, these proposals for a directive establish that there is a work relationship between the worker and the platform, they do not provide for any figure of the intermediary, they regulate a relationship between two and not three. Moreover, the Czech Presidency, which last Thursday tried to introduce in the European Council proposal on platforms a reference to the intermediary, in addition to disabling the presumption itself, was also defeated. Until then, the lobby of platforms that do not want contracts and that re-retire with the possibility of the intermediary did not win. In March of this year, the Green Paper on the future of work also proposed to Portugal a presumption of labour between the worker and the digital platform, only that the Government, after initially having welcomed this perspective, yielded and was placed the intermediary in its Dignified Work Agenda. In the hearings we did in this Parliament, the Green Paper coordinators were crystal clear against the intermediate operator's solution and that was also the opinion of the Working Conditions Authority. by validating the role of intermediaries, the government proposal does not guarantee contracts, makes it difficult to recognize the relationship with the platform and is a favor to multinationals. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister replied to the Bloc, assuming that it would be necessary to strengthen the proposal presented here, after the Socialist Party had advanced with the idea of a solidarity accountability of the platforms. What you need, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is only that Portugal abandons, at times, the bizarre figure of the intermediary, designed according to Uber. We know of the intense and aggressive lobby that platforms make about political decision makers, academia, social dialogue; we know of the blackmail they do about states, by saying "if they give us duties, we will leave" ; we know of the threat they make to workers. But this lobby, these interests, these blackmails have to be defeated by democracy. Tomorrow, we will return to the debate in the speciality on this subject, and until then we have an opportunity to make use of the interests of those who work, rather than perpetuate the paradise of platforms, which is the inferno of rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u132	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. I assume you will answer together...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u133	I will answer individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u134	Of course, Mr. Deputies. So to ask for clarification, first of all, Mr Fernando José of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, says the right that the measures in the Dignified Work Agenda go too far and that this is not the time for work changes; says the left to the left of the PS that these proposals are not ambitious. But what the right and left to the left of the PS cannot say is that the strengthening of workers' rights is not at the heart of the Socialist Party's concerns. Yes, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u137	Does he not consider that the Dignified Work Agenda does not reflect cuts or withdrawal of rights? Oh, my God! Does he not recognise that the Dignified Work Agenda reflects the densification of the fight against job insecurity, the exploitation of wages, the qualification of employment and the promotion of collective bargaining? Oh, my God! Now, on this path, the protection of thousands of workers from digital platforms, today without any regulation and without any protection, is one of the priorities in the political action of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u139	It was in these terms that, in the field of specialty, we discussed the presumption of the contract of work within the framework of the digital platform, as a form of protection for these workers. It is a discussion around Article 12. the -A, in which the Socialist Party considers it essential to achieve an extended consensus. in this sense, the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group has not closed itself, so I can announce today, here, that, in seeking this consensus, the PS Parliamentary Group will present tomorrow a proposal whose aim is to further reinforce the presumption of labour directly with the platform, adding greater legal certainty to the workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short: strengthening the platform's primacy in the relationship of labor, by comparison with the intermediary. Essentially, the presumption of labour will be with the platform, and it cannot establish terms and conditions of access to the most unfavourable or discriminatory activity. This is another step we take in defending workers, to which we call for a broad consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u140	To reply, asking for strict compliance with time, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u141	Mr President, Mr Fernando José, I am not going to address the whole of the Dignified Work Agenda, because there are many hundreds of pages that change not only the Labour Code, but 12 diplomas, I believe, related to work, but I am going to talk about the presumption of labour. What do we agree on? That there should be a presumption of specific employability for digital platforms, because the indications in the Labour Code, nowadays, often escape from the type of work relations that are established through the platforms. I don't know the proposal they're going to put forward tomorrow, but what are we in disagreement about? We disagree that the Socialist Party has made in 2018 a law that is unique in the world and that invented the figure of the intermediary, which does not exist in any other country, to uncompromise the digital platforms of employers' responsibilities. It was necessary to review this 'TVDE' law because there are also TVDEs in other countries — Uber and other passenger transport companies — and no country needed to create this figure of the intermediary, did it not? Oh, my God! More: what concludes the 200 decisions in Europe on the nature of the employment relationship between the driver and the platform is that there is a subordinate work relationship and therefore there must be a work contract. The platform is responsible for that worker, there must be maximum hours, there must be minimum wages, there must be safety in accidents at work, there must be right to holiday, there must be, finally, all the rights resulting from a contract of work. If the Socialist Party wants to abdicate from this figure of the intermediary and return to the initial proposal and recommendation of the Green Paper and have a law that is consistent and compatible with the proposal of the European Directive, then we will be ahead of us. If the Socialist Party, on the contrary, is not available to review the « TVDE law» and to abdicate this figure from the intermediary, then we will always have here a form of escape from platforms to labour responsibility. We will see, tomorrow, the proposal that the PS will present. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u142	Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u143	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank Mr. José Soeiro for the subject he brought here and I confess that I even feel bad, because it seems that I am introducing myself into the relationship between the PS and the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u144	That's so funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u145	Are you reacting to the ties? Are you trying to meet your old story?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u146	So much, so much fun!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u147	The PSD even feels good, because it wasn't the PSD who presented...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u148	Zero proposals! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u149	... a legitimate request for postponement of this proposal, which wanted to vote, and you could not be here now to make this exchange of affections between the two parties. Now, there is a question that arises and which is fundamental: after all, will this law be changed, for which no one knew why they were introducing an intermediary? In fact, until now, it has not been possible to realize, unless yesterday they took a handful of Mr. Prime Minister's ears, but out of it, no one has yet noticed where the father of this proposal and this law is. Clearly, you're not in this room! The father of the law is not in this room! [[PS Member Protest Fernando José.]] by the sights, so far, the only thing we know is that the Socialist Party has the modus operandi to want to try to force reason through its absolute majority. Only 120 Members alone are not reason to pass laws; they can be a form of theimosia, your strength may be theimosia...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u150	You presented zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u151	...and hence they may think that they can pass any law, but do not respect the rights of workers trying to do so. What Mr Fernando José has announced today makes us curious. They say: we will reinforce the presumption of labour, we will withdraw the intermediaries. Question: first, why didn't they do it before? This is a question that Mr. José Soeiro might perhaps also try to clarify to us, because he saw the same thing that we... if you wanted to approve this law on the first day, why didn't you do it before? Was it just because of the earbrush or because, in fact, this law is wrong and, from now on, will there be more details that are also wrong? Oh, my God! Tell us, then, why you want to approve this law this year, with such a terrible mistake as what was in this article 12. o -A?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u152	Zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u153	Why? Is there anything so relevant, so urgent to have this law passed this year?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u154	There are thousands of workers who are unprotected!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u155	Is it because, in fact, those 100 000 workers who supposedly exist on platforms have to start paying contributions to social security? Is that how it works? Is it money in the government bag? What is the reason for you to be here today and leave an orphan law without knowing who the father of this law was? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, 120 Members give no reason for anything, only give a clear sign: theimosia of the socialist majority. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u156	Mr Alfredo Maia, from the CFP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u157	Mr President, we thank Mr José Soeiro for the opportunity to discuss this subject here too, which was the subject of a very lively discussion yesterday, as mentioned here. I begin by pointing out that, yes, digital platforms are already a reality. It is also true that it is imperative to improve the conditions of protection of workers when it comes to the existence of a working relationship, and this work relationship exists, in particular, for TVDE drivers, for the bikers of the staging, etc. The truth is, however, that so-called digital platforms are a very complex ecosystem that accommodates multiple realities: it includes both TVDE drivers and the channeler that provides their service on a digital platform or the translator that, through the digital platform, offers their services. So what we have defended is that, of course, it is necessary to regulate this business from a commercial point of view, which is not yet done. However, this is a different matter from the recognition of the presumption of labour: from our point of view, Article 12. the Labour Code already does so sufficiently, although it can be improved, and this is where we have insisted. Another key aspect has to do with the algorithm. The algorithm and artificial intelligence can represent a useful tool for system management, as can also represent a useful tool for adapting the profile of the worker to the functions that he or she may occupy in the company. And, above all, the algorithm can dismiss the worker's training needs — which are indeed an obligation of the company — but cannot justify dismissals, as is also evident from the proposal adopted yesterday in the working group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u158	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u159	The question I ask you, Mr José Soeiro, is if you do not fear that the institutionalization of the algorithm, and I will quote the standard that you proposed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u160	Cite quickly, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u161	... for the « decision-making» on « access and maintenance of employment », i.e. a way of legitimizing dismissal, can the guarantees of protection against unfair dismissal be put in crisis?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u162	All right! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u163	To reply, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u164	Mr President, I shall begin by replying to Mr Alfredo Maia. Regulating the business, from a commercial point of view, was what was done with the « TVDE law », which regulates that activity. However, from a labour point of view, this was done by saying that the Labour Code applies. What, however, is the problem with this? It is that the figure of the intermediary was created, which unburdens the platforms to assume their responsibilities as employees, referring to Article 12. that of the Labour Code and for the signs of labor that were thought of for a pre-digital era and therefore several of those indications have difficulties of application to the way in which labor subordination is performed today, in the conditions in which the algorithmic management of the activity is done. Therefore, these intense forms of subordination are precisely seeking to escape the classic mechanisms of labour law. what we need is to work on these activities and therefore establish a specific presumption. Indications that are in the Labour Code or that will be in a new presumption do not confer any power on employers. The evidence and presumption make it possible to verify whether those powers are already being exercised to place them under the rules of the Labour Code. That is why, contrary to what you said, I think exactly the opposite of algorithmic transparency: in fact, it obliges the algorithmic management of the activity to be dependent on and subject to the rules of the Labour Code, so that it is impossible to have unfair dismissals, as today happens with algorithms, because they disable the worker, which is a true dismissal without just cause. From the moment that algorithmic activity management—and not only on platforms, this is expanding to many other sectors of activity—is subject to labour laws, then the prohibition of unfair dismissal applies at that time. All workers' rights are subject to the use of the algorithm and, therefore, from our point of view, the approval of algorithmic transparency is very important. The PSD voted against algorithmic transparency, which is curious, because they do not even accept an information duty on how employers use the algorithm to manage the activity. What do you mean? Oh, my God! It is that I did not know that the PSD was against the European directive which also provides for algorithmic transparency and that duty of information.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u165	We abstained!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u166	The proposal which has been discussed and approved in the European Parliament is good for self-employed workers, because whoever is a true self-employed person does not become a subordinated worker due to a presumption — the channeler or translator who is a true independent worker, will remain an independent worker. Therefore, the proposal is good for these workers. And the proposal is also good for subordinate workers, because it will make their formal and labor status conform to their true reality. No one believes that a scam or that a driver is a company or that they are independent workers, because they are not those who determine their working conditions. In a way, the directive is also good for companies that want to comply with the law, which is not the case for multinationals, who have made an intense lobby, which made between the proposal of October 2021, which the Government submitted, and the proposal of June 2022, which the Government submitted, there was an amendment, with the introduction of an intermediary to give in to these lobbies. If we have companies that do not want to do this kind of unfair competition, we can have work on platforms, work, that, which will be framed by labour law and collective bargaining, as was done in Spain, the Just Eat platform, which has just signed a collective convention with the unions to regulate work on platforms and workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u167	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u168	That is what we need to do to respond to the world of work, to those who live from their work and to those who need to be recognized in that condition. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u169	We now move on to the political declaration of the Socialist Party. To that end, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic imposed changes in our behaviors, production and consumption, and when we were preparing for recovery, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine began. It has become imperative to think and develop cross-cutting instruments that integrate all areas of the environment and the different sectoral policies — to speed up energy transition, in line with European challenges. COP27 ( United Nations Conference on Climate Change ) has just defined the establishment of a financing mechanism to compensate the most vulnerable nations for the loss and damage caused by climate. The Portuguese know exactly what this means. From this moment on, I leave a solidarity embrace for each family, for each Portuguese, who has suffered in the skin the way climate change has and has had effect on our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am also doing so to the security forces, to the civil protection and to all the authorities, who have demonstrated, at this moment, a spirit of solidarity and absolutely enormous unity. Better environment also means having less dependence on countries and fuels that we do not control. It is possible to grow economically without increasing emissions. Portugal reduced its emissions by 4, 8 % at the same time as the gross domestic product grew by 4, 9 %. We must promote a fair transition, focused on job creation and retraining of current professions. An example of this was the way in the four operational programmes ( OP) we indicated the creation and mechanization of fair transition funds, in regions like Sines or in the Pego, as well as in the cementeries in the Lisbon area or even in Matosinhos. To think about this, the government created the Simplex and approved a set of simplification measures for environmental licensing – making it faster and easier – in order to accelerate the responses to major environmental challenges such as the circular economy, the water shortage, the transition to renewable energy and the decarbonization of our economy. All this to speed up the decarbonization of our country. A small example of these measures may be the replacement of nitrogen and phosphorus in agriculture by sludge from our ETAR (residual water treatment station). Today, 70 % of energy comes from renewable sources. The other 30 % are still based on fossil fuels and expose us in terms of our energy sovereignty. However, they also correspond to 30% of new opportunities in value areas for universities, businesses and external investors, such as introducing energy storage activity, promoting hybrid projects, re-qualifying our wind farms, implementing self-consumption communities or installing wind farms and offshorers in deep water. Green energy will be essential for the production of renewable gases. Portugal will be a net exporter of renewable gases from Sines or through the design of the pipeline to the centre of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The green energy corridor was a successful bet that reinforces the centrality of our country in the energy equation. Portugal managed to contain energy prices for families and most exposed companies, reducing the market price by less than 15 %. Next year, there is a financial injection in gas and electricity prices of about EUR 3000 million in the industrial sector and about EUR 3 billion in domestic consumers. The Government guarantees that electricity domestic consumers will have only an increase of 1, 1 % next year and, in the case of gas, 3, 9 % next year. This is protecting companies and protecting people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The new Strategic Plan of Urban Solid Waste (PerSU) aims to substantially reduce the amount of waste in landfill, increasing the recycling of organic products, producing biogas or introducing deposit and return systems. In the water sector, we need waste water reuse projects and the effective reduction of losses. The first desalinizer was assumed and it is necessary to frame this new source in the supply models and in the legal framework of the water distribution, from source to end consumer. In the current models, we account for the development, for example, of the quantity of concrete used in our societies or for the use of fitophharmacs for the production of food for humans. Therefore, it is necessary to equalize the creation and regulation of the voluntary carbon market in order to ensure that, in Portugal, the most sustainable territories and activities generate environmental assets, but also economic assets. In my opinion, it is possible to use these parameters, but also to quantify the emissions that are associated, while we should mobilize the private sector, companies and industries to work for the carbon neutrality of their activities. Yesterday the European Commission approved and regulated Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism ( CBAM ). The way in which products from other continents will be forced to pay a carbon rate will be decisive in how from Parliament or from the government today we take decisions to create value in the real market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even private individuals can make energy transition investments, such as buying their own electric car, being paid for by this activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must be careful and realize how each one of us, from the Assembly of the Republic, helps to create value in the real market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u171	Mr President, the Bureau has registered five Mrs. Members for clarification requests, which I assume you want to answer in two blocks, of two plus three answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u172	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u173	So for the first request for clarification, I give the floor to Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pinheiro on the subject which brought the debate here, and by saying that it is unquestionable, indeed, the importance and necessity that we need to simplify procedures, reduce bureaucracy, eliminate legislative redundancy. Furthermore, the PSD has always marked its government action for this concern: we have created the Single Environmental License and we have also created the Single Environmental Title, with all permits and authorizations; we have always sought, in fact, to make the processes simpler, more credible and more transparent. But the relevance of this simplification is so great that it really has to be done well, Mr President. The PSD has warned, in time, that simplifying is different from facilitating and cannot mean removing the levels of demand, it cannot be thoroughly cleaned up the laws and licensings that protect environmental resources and avoid ecological damage. The Socialist Party presented everything here, through itself, as if it were a work of legislative art, saying that everything is always very well sharpened and assured, but we know it is not so well. In fact, we know that the initial diploma of the Simplex had many criticisms, we even know that the public consultation period had, by the middle, the whole month of August and today, while we are having this discussion, the final diploma is not known and has not yet been published. Therefore, I ask you, Mr Commissioner, speaking as you spoke about the rostrum, you can make sure that the gaps, weaknesses, the many insufficiency and risks that the initial project of the Simple revealed have been corrected and guarded. He also took advantage of it to tell you that if, with regard to Simplex, the lack of information is clear, with regard to interconnections, then the thing is even worse. The Minister of the Environment came to the Committee on the Environment a short time ago to recognise that there was no agreement in fact, but he said that we were all calm, because at the Alicante Summit everything would be defined. Well, the Alicante Summit was held and we still have absolutely no information. Do the doubts remain and at the head of these doubts remain the old question of who will pay: in fact, there is a guarantee from the European Commission, or from the Government, that consumers do not pay or that is just there in their role? Where is it written that they do not actually pay? We want to see, we want guarantees! Announcements, we already know that the Socialist Party is doing very well, but what is the government's business and in what terms? That is why it is important to clarify, because the Government, when negotiating on behalf of the Portuguese, has a duty of transparency for the Assembly of the Republic and, if the Government forgets this, the Socialist Party, which has an absolute majority, should be the first to remember it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u175	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u176	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro, I have three questions for you. The first, with regard to the third pipeline, is to know what the vision of the PS is either on technical issues or on funding. Yesterday, Mr Prime Minister was here and said he hoped that 50% would be financed by European funds, so I would like to know, for the other 50%, whether the PS claims that they should be financed through taxes, through the State budget, with taxpayers to pay, or through consumers, through tariffs. Secondly, about the Simplex, I wanted to greet, first, the end of the process. The great press conference had been in August; finally, in December, the process is completed. There are several things I have already praised and praised: the end of several duplications, evaluations and other authorizations... I remember, in fact, the project of a photovoltaic central center in which it took more than 40 entities, I repeat, more than 40 entities, for this project to move forward. So there is a lot to be praised, but we must not forget that there are many things that happen—including some tacit deviations—because the state today does not have the capacity to respond. And we come back to the question of having more civil servants in some places and less in others, and the problem is aggravated by the fact that the PS has been six years ago promising a new state information and organization system, which does not yet exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u177	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u178	So my main concern is even the practical application of Simplex. There are deadlines which are short, and well, but I do not know whether, today, the State has the capacity to respond and I would like to know what the PS measures are to resolve this situation. I give here a clear example, of news 15 days ago: Portugal has only three renewable energy communities—yes, three! — and 170 waiting for authorisation, repeat, 170 waiting for authorisation. I would like to know what the PS has to resolve these delays from the Public Administration. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u179	To respond to these two first requests for clarification, Mr Ricardo Pinheiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u180	To govern, or to defend the position of the Government, is to make a realistic analysis on certain issues. Starting with Mr Bernardo Blanco's questions, I find it extremely important that, in the face of a great delay in the way in which energy communities are a European ambition and have not actually been translated into Portugal, this Simple aims precisely to follow the great moments of decision-making on how the sets of people, residents and associations can and should meet around the energy community. I really hope, and I believe, that this Simplex is proof that the increase in the certification and authorisation of the start-up activity of the energy communities can be a reality. With regard to financing, responding to the question of the Liberal Initiative, and also of the PSD, and the PSD is a party with experience in the negotiation of Community funds, the way in which this project had to be done, on the basis of inclusion in projects of Community interest, ensuring that we stopped talking about the possibility of blue hydrogen and we were able to build up all the supply, supply and production of hydrogen based on green sources, even demanded that the European Commission also assume the agreement that was made for this work. Linking Celorico from Beira to Zamora is clearly included in the funding priorities of Community projects. For the other 50 %, for now, we do not know, or are not sure — in fact, we are not able to finance the other 50 % — but they can be equationd in a financing model, where the value of the hydrogen that is produced and created in Portugal according to the investment CAPEX (expenditure capital) associated with this major project is analysed. The Government has heard more than 250 entities since the first presentation of the Simplex, which I think perfectly reflect the concerns of civil society in relation to such an important instrument to help achieve energy transition objectives such as energy, such as hydrogen or the reuse of products from the circular economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u181	For a request for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Rita Matias of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro, in fact, I have already thought of hearing everything here in this Chamber, but hearing about it in rain in December and in climate change I did not expect, because, indeed, it is normal that in winter it rains. And this is not to be a negationist on climate change, as much as you like to create labels, that is just to see the reality. The climate has always changed! It has already been said here, in this House, that Greenland, before being as it is currently, was a forest. Therefore, at a time of extreme seriousness, when the Portuguese, particularly in Lisbon, are losing their business, their homes, we cannot compact with this political class that wants to feed a collective hysteria, rather than find effective answers to the lives of these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u183	Exactly! There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u184	So, no, Mr. Hugo Pires, don't count on arriving for this narrative...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u185	Me?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u186	Yes, because Mr Hugo Pires recently wanted to drag the arrive to this mud hole. But, as I said, do not count on arriving to feed ideological agendas that at nothing answer and that at nothing help the lives of the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] When we heard the Socialist Party talk about Iberian interconnections, we initially thought they might be talking about the interconnection between Portugal and Spain that occupy 32. o and 34. the place in the perception index of corruption, but that's not what we talked about here. We also thought we heard about, for example, the interconnection between the Spanish Government, which wants to pardon independentists in Spain, and Mário Soares, who gave pardons to members of the FP-25 terrorist organization ( Popular Forces 25 April ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u187	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u188	We thought, again, and once we were talking about interconnections and energy, that, perhaps, we would hear about the rotating doors that exist between rulers and energy companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u190	...between rulers who protect energy companies and then they will occupy administrative positions, but that's not what we've heard about either. We heard about the famous green corridor. Now, since Mr Prime Minister yesterday refused to answer Dr. André Ventura's question and Minister Duarte Cordeiro also refuses to answer this question, the question is: what costs will it really have for the Portuguese, the implementation and construction of this green corridor? More: the trace of Celorico da Beira and Zamora, which mentioned, was plummeted, which translates into the need to review the project in more than 160 km of this route. What will the costs of this amendment be? To conclude, Mr President, because I am already exceeding the time available, as we speak in the simplification of licences—and because this simplification translates into a support for the lobby of renewables, but nothing changes, for example, in the life of the small farmer, who continues without means to create water retentions in his productions—and we see that simplification is not reaching the life of the common Portuguese, the question that I bring to him is very simple: there are more than 600 environmental rates that represent more than EUR 5000 million that go directly to the state safes ; how many rates will cease to exist, as a result of this programme that you are implementing now?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u192	Tell the Portuguese how much the Portuguese will pay less, as a result of this socialist effort. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u193	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Duarte Alves, from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Pinheiro, referred in passing to Matosinhos refinery as an example of decarbonisation. I would like you to explain to me how close a refinery and continue to consume refined products, but to import them, rather than refine them in Portugal, contributes to decarbonisation. Long goes the times when Antonio Costa wanted to give an exemplary lesson to the GALP by closing the refinery. Now it already seems to be an example of decarbonization for the Socialist Party. I would like to ask you a few questions about the links between Portugal and Spain. The first one, has already been put here, is this: how much will this cost the Portuguese, whether as consumers, or as taxpayers?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u195	Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u196	It is important to know that, because these are projects of Community interest, they are mainly interested in a European strategy and therefore it is important to know whether the European Commission will pay or whether it will be the Portuguese to pay a large part of these investments. Then I would also like to know whether, after the conditional opinions of APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) on the construction of this link, all conditionalities have already been exceeded and the impacts on nature, landscape and populations have been minimized. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask whether I consider that increasing the Iberian links and, in turn, the links of the Iberian Peninsula to the European market, whether or not there is a risk that Portugal and Spain will no longer benefit from the conditions that allow the wholesale prices of gas and electricity to be much lower than those of the centre of Europe today. This is indeed a concern that we have because we can get to a situation where we are going to enter a market that has very different prices from those that are practised in Portugal and Spain. If throughout Europe citizens envy gas prices, which stem mainly from the fact that the Iberian Peninsula is not part of the European market, we ask whether or not there is a risk of ever being integrated into markets with a much higher size and prices than the Iberian Peninsula. In other words, if these interconnections were already complete, would the Iberian gas price containment mechanism have been possible? Or, if it were possible, would it have the impact it has on price reductions? That's the question I'd like you to answer. And if, in fact, on the Iberian Peninsula we have more favorable conditions than in the centre and north of Europe, what is the rush to get into a market that has much worse conditions than what we have here and that the citizens of the rest of Europe...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u197	You want to be proudly alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u198	No, we proudly want lower prices than those in central and northern Europe. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u199	The last request for clarification to Mr Ricardo Pinheiro belongs to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of BE. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pinheiro, bringing the issue of energy into the debate would be to expect that whoever talks about the common Portuguese, he would think the same way as everyone thinks about energy: the abuse that is occurring in the bills of electricity, gas bills or going to any gas bomb. But, curiously enough, the oil abuse, the big energy companies, the super-lucks that are winning, on the basis of the over-abuse on people and the economy, said zero. [[CH protests.]] In fact, the common Portuguese knows that their interests, in terms of arriving or the Liberal Initiative, remain at the door, because what they defend is the interests of large energy companies. But with regard to the intervention of the Socialist Party and the Government, there are issues about inequalities in the energy transition which must also be asked very directly. It is that, in the fundamental choices of energy transition, the Socialist Party and the Government do not play a role in the unequal structure of the distribution of benefits. To the people, what the PS often says is that they have to pay more because it is the energy transition, but to the large economic groups, who are having supersede with this reality, what the government says is this: "We live well with your supersedes at the expense of a surplus to the population. Do not keep on seeking. ” That, for us, is unacceptable. The honourable Member referred to the Iberian mechanism, which is trying to offset the price of electricity and natural gas. In fact, the Government recognises, in this Iberian mechanism, that about 30 % more is paid to electricity-producing companies. EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), in this year of 2022, is winning four times as much as it won in 2017 for the same energy production. Question : Where is equality in this energy transition? It's just that people pay for this damage. The Government has never accepted or guaranteed, for example, that EDP would pay the IMI of the dams or that it would pay the IMT (municipal tax on onerous property transmissions) for the sale of the dams that it had made to foreigners; or, for example, that the impacts of various electro-producers, whether wind energy or photovoltaic, would have a positive impact on the populations. No, the populations always get the damage. The benefits are in the hands of some and I ask what justice is! The climate transition must safeguard the planet, but it must also safeguard justice in the economy and, from this point of view, the Socialist Party is failing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u201	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u202	Mr President, I believe that the attitude of the Socialist Party in the Committee on the Environment has been a dialogue, discussion and, often, some mutual pedagogy in relation to the other party forces, and also with regard to ourselves. The rain scenarios in the last 20 years in Portugal averaged 60 mm of water per hour. It happens that only this year, in the most extreme cases, during the winter, it rained 500 mm of water per hour. Many times, it's questions... [[CH protests.]] When we talk about rain in December... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] Yeah, we're talking about rain in December... [[Continuation of protests by CH Member Bruno Nunes.]] Sir, please let me speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u203	Yeah, but share the data!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u204	When we talk about rain in December we don't talk about reality, completely abnormal, which happened right now in Portugal. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] There are 10 times more, in many situations, and this type of analysis also needs to be done with some justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u205	It's all set up! Go to the Polygraph!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u206	Regarding the way we look at the fair transition, I did not speak in the decarbonization of Matosinhos. I spoke in the example of the application of the Fund for a Just Transition, an experience made by the European Commission, which is being set up by the Socialist Party, this year, and negotiated with the various Regional OPs ( Operational Programmes ) to help mitigate the effects of the closure of the Matosinhos Central, the closure of the Pego Central and also the closure of the Sine Central. Clearly, when we close coal, we clearly improve the objectives for our decarbonisation. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] When the Socialist Party assumes that it passes more than 300 000 customers to the regulated market, that is one of the ways in which we have to combat the huge increase in electricity and energy prices that we have had in recent times. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u207	Gas prices are one of the major concerns that have existed for domestic customers and also for industrial customers. The way in which the Socialist Party will inject more than EUR 4 billion in 2023 to mitigate these great increases is clearly to think about two major areas of our society: in people and in businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u208	We now turn to the PSD's political declaration, with the floor of Mr Miguel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In an interview to be known tomorrow, Mr. Prime Minister announces a subsidy of € 240 to the supposedly most deprived families in our country. This is a support that will be paid until December 23, or from that day on, a support that will be paid at the time of birth. It is good news — excellent news — a great Christmas present, no doubt, and for many families it will certainly represent the possibility of having a happier Christmas or of dealing with charges and expenses, which would otherwise be difficult to do. And it's a lot of money, it's a lot of money, no doubt. The question that arises with regard to these support, which is no longer the first and which is necessary, is about its criteria. When will the Portuguese people be able to have a new support, following the one that comes at the time of birth and after the previous one that had been granted? What is the criterion used for the public record to be distributed in a certain way or other way? If these supports are somehow a strike for families, the truth is that the country is subject to a process of growing and continuing impoverishment. And the occasional support that emerges is self-consumed in the way families better understand - their consumption. Check, for example, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the rise in interest rates for housing credit. A remedied family or "remedied", perhaps, will have a housing credit of €150 000 — we will grant that it is €150 000 for a residential credit of a remedied family — that, as a result of the rise in interest rates, will have an increase in its provision of €251, little more than the support that the State now lends itself to the Christmas season. Now, having consumed support, how are these families going to handle their charges in January? How are these families going to deal with these charges, with the basic principle of housing, in February? This Government, with the results it is having, after seven years — seven years, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — governance, in the first part with the support of the Communist Party and the Left Block....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u210	And then?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u211	...and in this second phase with the absolute majority, which gives you this charm and independence to achieve greater political autonomy, it is actually the impoverishment government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u212	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u213	It is the government that, at the end of this seven-year period, plus the four that we have ahead, could mean a lost decade for the country, for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] It is the Government of the Loss of Purchasing Power; it is the Government of the Permanent Court of 1000 million in pensions and reforms; it is the Government of Fuels at Gold Price; it is the Government of expensive incomes and unbearable incomes; it is the Government of the Lack of Family Physicians; it is the Government of the Waiting Lists for Medical Consultations, for Oncological Surgery; it is the Government of the Waste of Community Funds, when necessary they would be for the structuring of the Country and for the economic strike; it is the Government of the Enlargement of Social Inequities. Check it out, ladies. Members, the significant number of beneficiaries of the provision of RSI ( social income for inclusion ), which increased from 209 664 to 217 149 in 2021. The impoverishment is always growing! Check it out, ladies. Members, who, under the IRS, the age groups or the dominant groups of beneficiaries are the children and the elderly, the most vulnerable groups. It is the government of the waste of the most disadvantaged. The rate of risk of poverty continues to be the highest in the group of children, and increased to 19, 1 %. The same is true in the group of elderly people, where the rate of risk of poverty also increased to 17, 5 %. This is the government which objectively puts us on the line of Europe and which is not only condemning today's generations to a process of impoverishment but also undermining the future of the new generations. It is in this context that a lot of impressions make us hear at certain times that common place of « nobody stays behind ». [[PSD applause.]] In the processes of political marketing, of which they are users and workers on the PS bench in the debates that take place in this Parliament, no one remains behind. That's a lie, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Stay back! Stay behind the young, stay behind the older. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] This country is not a country for the elderly at the moment. This country is not a country for young people right now. Therefore, all these effectively stay behind. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] Where is the future of this country? What's the plan? What is the development strategy? What can we tell the elderly? What warmness can we give young people about a perspective for the future in our country, in the society we are developing? What can we promise for the future of our people, in addition to minimum existential subsidies, vain promises and political entertainment? The monthly cost of a basic food consumption cabaz for an adult increased 21% between October 2021 and October 2022. The average monthly cost of a basic food consumption cabaz for an adult aged about 40 increased 24 %. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on a path of impoverishment of the country and impoverishment of the Portuguese, and you, especially the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party do not seem to be uncomfortable. They prefer the instruments of perpetuation in power and condemn Portugal to another decade of impoverishment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u214	The Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. I assume that the honourable Member responds in blocks of two plus three. Is that so?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u215	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u216	All right. Then, the first request for clarification belongs to Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. I would especially like to congratulate Mr Miguel Santos on his chosen subject, but at the same time say that I disagree completely with most of the words he has spoken. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u218	Combating poverty is really a matter that should move us all. It is a question of human rights and, no doubt, it was always what guided the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u220	...not just for some, but for the whole population. at this time, in Portugal, be men, be women, whatever ethnicity, all are covered by the measures that the Socialist Party has issued in recent decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u221	Even those who arrived in the country a week ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u222	I must remind you of some of the major strategies, which make this fight and which were, indeed, the origin of the Socialist Party. I recall, for example, the social income of insertion, the solidarity complement for the elderly, the social network, the National Strategy for Combating Poverty. All measures that have been taken by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u224	But I must also tell you that, with regard to numbers, I do not know what statistics you have consulted, but it is not the same as the Socialist Party. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u225	Despite the pandemic and if we are going through this difficult moment of crisis, which comes from the war in Ukraine, we must point out that from 2015 to 2021 the risk of poverty or social exclusion has fallen from 26, 4 % to 22, 4 %, meaning that 440 000 people have left the situation of poverty and social exclusion. More: I must tell you that, from 2012 to 2014 — I do not know if you remember who was in the government at that time — the risk of exclusion and poverty in our country was 24, 5 %, 27, 4 % and, in 2014, 30 %, despite all extraordinary measures for children, for families, for businesses. The government's support today is € 240, which will give to 1 million families actually have a better Christmas, but it is an extraordinary support due to the crisis, also extraordinary, that we are living. So at the moment that there is all this support — the support of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and the support of the PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ) project, which has increased measures for families in relation to the construction of social responses, especially to support children, such as the freeness of day care and all the strategy that will give €100 for each child at risk of poverty — if you think these measures were of no value, you would like to know, and that is the question I leave to the PSD, which these measures cut. Why did you in your time, in the four years you were in government, instead of taking measures, cut pensions, cut orders? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u226	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u227	I only ask for one more moment, Mr. President. Why did they even cut the one that I think was the most worthy complement this country has made, which was the solidarity complement for the elderly? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, your government has cut 100% of this supplement! Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u228	To make a request for clarification, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we can say that we are generally in accordance with the diagnosis made by the PSD Member. Without a doubt, the Socialist Party has made a decisive contribution to this impoverishment of our country, since it has been in government for the last 27 years. Portugal is, unfortunately, a poorer country today, and this is seen in all national and international indicators. According to PORDATA, without social support, there are 4 million poor people in our country, and even after these social transfers there are still 1 million poor people. This is a scandal, it should embarrass us all and it is revealing the failure of the successive governments of the last few years, mostly socialist. But we have more: now we know that we will be overcome by Romania. It should be remembered that Romania lived under the yoke of communism until 1989 and only acceded to the European Union in 2007, unlike Portugal, which had already taken 22 years of accession.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u231	This same country is going to exceed us in 2024, rising 13 positions in terms of per capita GDP since 2000, unlike Portugal, which has fallen five positions since 2000, and in 2024 will occupy 20. the place in this indicator. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened to our country? What have you done to our country? We have no doubt in saying that the PS governments have prevented the development of which Portugal lacks and that the left does not know how to create wealth, but knows how to promote poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u233	If the diagnosis that we have made of the Portuguese delay has recently removed us from the PSD, we cannot say the same about the solutions to the problems. And since Mr Miguel Santos spoke about the increase in the price of fuels, I ask two simple questions. First: why did the PSD vote against the extraordinary discount of 0, 20 € / l of fuel, proposed by the Arrival, in order to strike off the family budgets and sustainability of companies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u235	Secondly, why did you vote against the fixing of maximum margins on the value of fuels, on an extraordinary basis, proposed by the Arrival, which would allow the discount to favour consumers and not be absorbed by gas stations? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u236	To reply, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u237	Mr President, Member of the Socialist Party, Member of the Party, I would like to thank the questions. Madam Member, we are faced with a great difficulty in agreeing with the methodology and how we see the governance of our country, and this is proven by the history of our country itself, the history of the governance of the Socialist Party and the history of the governments of the Social Democratic Party. In fact, we are very different. In the main issues I admit that not — in those of the regime, because they give stability to our State — but with regard to the economic model, the social model, there is a great difference between us. It is not the conversation of the poor and the most disadvantaged that separates us, because, as we must imagine, humanity exists on this side and there exists on this side and the claim of having a more developed population, with access to more care and with better living conditions is a goal that we must all have. But then, Mrs Deputy, in the exercise of public powers there is indeed a very big difference, and history proves it. See Mrs Deputy that her party supported the Government of Eng.António Guterres, which lasted from 1995 to 2002, and indeed we know the result of that government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u238	A swamp!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u239	We know what happened and we know what the heavy inheritance exactly left by that government was. [[PSD applause.]] If what she refers to is that in the Government of the Socialist Party from 1995 to 2002, the social income of insertion was created, at the time called'minimum guaranteed income', excellent, Mrs Deputy! We fully agree with the objectives that were advocated by this subsidy and how it was applied, although with some deviations—which must recognize that they have existed and still remain today. Now, what cannot happen, in conceptual terms, is people being beneficiaries of such a kind of support and, by this way, the way the state machine works and the people are inserted, are condemned to live permanently within the framework of...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u240	No, it's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u241	No, no, Mrs. Member, that's exactly how things happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u243	Then, for the honourable Member to understand what separates us, there was a second PS government, led by Mr. Eng.o José Socrates, from 2005 to 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u244	He's not an engineer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u245	You know how this government ended, don't you know? Do you know how that government ended? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Cristina Mendes da Silva.]] Do you know how this government left this country? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u246	You answered with even more austerity!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u247	Do you know the cases that still prevail in the courts, that are being investigated by the police and that are to be tried? [[PS protests.]] Do you know what the economic consequences and the social consequences of this government have left this country? And now, Mrs. Member, we have the government led by Dr. António Costa, which began in 2015 and is supposed to end in 2026,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u248	Or not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u249	... if you meet the next four years. The question I asked, the framework and the way I put the question, is the following: in seven years, what happened? And what can be expected to happen in the next four years?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u250	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u251	I will confess to you, Mrs. Member, looking at you: my expectation is very low. Downstairs! [[Protests by PS Member Cristina Mendes da Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u252	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u253	I will finish, Mr. President. Evil is not mine, Mrs. Member! Evil is not mine, as you imagine. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u254	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u255	Mr. Deputies of the coming party is also right in the form of an intervention, when he says that he agrees with the diagnosis that the PSD has made. It is difficult to disagree, because if we are attentive to reality we see how most of our elderly people live, how young people tend to seek solutions to life outside the country, how the famine and cost of life crush families in Portugal. Now, he is also right in the second part of his intervention, because his methodology, his conceptual model is not ours, can be rested on this. There's a whole sea that separates us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u256	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u257	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u258	in this respect, Mr. Members can continue to highlight our differences, as they have done very much, in recent times, because they do exist. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u259	You have the floor to make a request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel Santos, the Prime Minister today announced an extraordinary support, now € 240, for a group of families, which has a difference in the support, for example, of the 125 € allocated in October. In October, as you will recall, what was at stake was a support that went to people who had up to 2700 euros of gross income. Not now, we are talking about targeted support for people who have a disadvantaged situation. This means that what was done in October by the government was done in a wrong way, because it makes no sense to assign this kind of support to families with incomes of 2000 € or 2700 € gross. These families have the opportunity to work, have the possibility to have their income and what is wrong is what the Government and the PS systematically defend, i.e. excessive withdrawal of the labour product of people and families in terms of taxes, taking their means.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u261	This is called redistribution!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u262	Money is not from the PS, it is not from the government, nor is it from the state, money is from the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u264	So they take money from people to then make a number of propaganda when they do charity to them, when they do caretentialism to them. The middle classes do not need the PS or the government for assistance; they need the PS, the government and the country to leave the money, which is yours in the pocket, and not to take it out too much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u266	That is why this measure which is now presented is more fair, because it makes it directed to people who really need it. Now, we're talking about 1 million families, which actually are 2 or 3 million people. Why? Because we have more than 4 million people who are poor before social transfers and 2 million people who are poor even after social transfers, and that, Mrs. PS Members, it is unqualified. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] You have failed, and I accuse you here of a brutal failure in the management of the country, this millennium, because you were the main ones responsible for everything that is happening in Portugal. You have failed in the economy, failed in society, you have failed in Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u267	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u268	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. Mr. Miguel Santos, I am also surprised by the intervention of the PSD leader Luís Montenegro, because he says that these support should be extended to middle class families, and I disagree deeply about it. What should be done to middle class families was to allow their income not to be removed from their pocket, so that people would not become dependent. I hope that the PSD is not also defending that the middle class should impoverish due to taxation and become dependent on assistanceism. I hope that's not the way the PSD stands for. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u269	To request clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u270	Mr. President, Mr. Miguel Santos, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is providing timely support to deny what is right, leaving many families behind. Poverty, we know, is fighting through higher wages, through higher pensions, through better social support and through price control to stop inflation. After this support, four out of every five families will continue to have gross income losses and even those who will receive it know they will impoverish because this happens every time they go to the supermarket, every time they have to go to a gas pump, every time inflation goes to their pocket. Inflation of essential goods is more than 20 %, but the government denies higher wages to respond to impoverishment, denies price control in supermarkets, gas pumps, in the fight against real estate speculation, in the fight against the looting that the bank is doing. The government, in fact, wants a country that lives with extended hands and has the safes, only and only, to show Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u271	You've had good results!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u272	Are there any alternatives to this policy? There are, but curiously, they are not on the side of the PSD, they are not on the right side. Where the PS rejects price control to combat speculation, it has right-wing support;... [[Protests by Mr Rui Rocha.]] ... whereever the Government rejects combating the superlucres, which are over-abuses on families and on the economy, it has the right support; whenever the PS rejects the speculation that triggers housing prices, it has the right support; whenever the Government rejects the tax bubbles to the speculators and the super-rich ones, who then trigger the house prices, it has the right support; whenever the Government rejects the right support, the wage increases, the pension value, the dignity and the value of social support, it has the right support; when the Government rejects policies to defend the income of the'milieurists' in this country, it has the right support. Do you need an alternative? It is an alternative to the poverty policy that the Government and the right have made over the last decades in the country, and that alternative is what the Left Block defends. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u273	Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP, for clarification, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u274	Mr President, Mr Miguel Ramos, we listened very carefully and noted what seemed to be a concern of the PSD with what he recognized as the process of impoverishment, with the increase of interest, low pensions, the rate of risk of poverty, yes, of 2,300 000 people, after social benefits—because before they are four and a half million — but it is appropriate to ask him: how did the PSD vote the proposals, in particular the CFP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u275	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u276	... as regards the increase of the national minimum wage to € 850? How did the PSD vote on the general increase in wages, the increase in reforms and pensions by 8% and at least €50 per pensioner? How did the PSD vote on the limitation of interest and spreads? How did the PSD vote in relation to the control of essential goods prices, the fight against speculation, the taxation of large profits, social action measures at school, including the distribution of free meals until the end of compulsory schooling? How did the PSD vote on the reduction of working hours? Moreover, what does the PSD say about the structural causes of poverty, including the low-wage model, of the unfair distribution of wealth that the occasional support that you have praised here does not solve? [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u277	Mr. Deputy has arrived here a short time ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u278	And now what does the PSD say about the origin of the structural causes of poverty, which is the economic model itself? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u279	To reply, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor, to whom I would ask to contain the three minutes to which he has a legitimate right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u280	Mr President, I will try to be strict and to meet your challenge, knowing that it is difficult, indeed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u281	It's not a challenge, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u282	It's an imposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u283	...is a request I make to you. It has already exceeded a lot, ignored my requests for completion and, therefore, I ask you now to respect us all. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u284	Mr President, if you exceed time, believe that it is not disrespectful. With regard to what Mr Rui Rocha said, of the Liberal Initiative, I believe that we have basically not said things as different as that. Yes, it is true, the 240 € now announced will be for a social band of our people in a more disadvantaged condition. The above were a much larger scope, including what we can call'middle class' in social and economic terms. So, look how bad our middle class is! The leader of my party referred objectively to this fact in the same way as the previous subsidies were allocated, and at the time the PS called it a "little charity" that the PSD wanted to promote for people. This is not how the PS is acting this time, and I am glad that it is not doing this because, on time, this subsidy could actually be a strike — however small it is — for some families. The middle class and the Portuguese people need, yes - you are right, Mr President - of low taxation, of health care, of better and better paid employment, of a functioning State and that it is a support and not a barrier. The middle class, the most disadvantaged and those who live better, that is, the Portuguese people, do not need 120 € and 240 €. They need it now! Now! And why? Because we're really on a very low level. [[Protests by PS Member Berta Nunes.]] With regard to the Left Block, with regard to the diagnosis that you were making on the point—and which you have made, more or less, in this logic that I have explained— we certainly agree. As an alternative, he started a speech with which I disagree and which, I must say, he has no adherence to reality. The Left Block is a party whose main elements — the voices that make up it here — are always placed in a pedestal of ethics and morals. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u285	Now, Mr President, in order to take this position, you will have to understand that, from my point of view, it is not enough to think. And there's a big difference between one thing and another. [[PSD applause.]] What is this about, Mr President, since you do not understand my point of view? When he speaks as an alternative between the PS and the right—which we are, in his words—is being deceived. You are wrong, because whoever has walked in political « macumbany», government management, corridor games, photographs of agreements were you along with the PS gentlemen,... [[PSD applause.]] ... these PS gentlemen weren't with us. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Therefore, Mr President, in addition to the opinion, it must also be. And I must tell you that I also reject completely...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u286	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u287	Mr. President, I'm going to finish, you're right. As you said, Mr President, I completely repudiate the conversation of the super-rich speculators who increase the price of houses with the support of the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u288	And no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u289	That's what Mr. Member said, but Mr. Member, if there's a speculator I can already appoint is your comrade, who has been making real estate speculation in Lisbon and is now hiding,... [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u290	...he's hiding somewhere where the gentlemen put him. That is why you can explain and answer us. [[PSD applause.]] I don't know... if you have, in your circle of friends...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u291	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u292	I'm going to finish, Mr. President, you're right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u293	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u294	If Mr. Deputy has in your circle of friends...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u295	If this is the new PSD, fine!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u296	...or of political comrades real estate speculators who are known, I don't have any. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u297	Now cry!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u298	We now have a request to defend the honour of Mrs Inês Sousa Real. To that end, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot fail to exercise the defense of the honor of the bench,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u300	Which bench? There's no bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u301	... with regard to Mr Bruno Nunes' statements, because the honourable Member and the bank of the Arrival have already used us to, when they lack ideas and proposals, come here with personal attacks. This is not the first time, and it will certainly not be the last time, even because the honourable Member, in a very unusual way, has already made other considerations, in fact, completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u302	So he even takes advantage of Twitter!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u303	But what is important is to make it clear that you and your bench bear in mind that the NAP is, and will always be, strongly committed to combating abandonment, ill-treatment and any other forms that may call into question the protection and animal welfare.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u304	What was the honour offended? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u305	More, even in relation to the full, the NAP has been in contact with all animal protection associations from the very first moment and working with those on the ground. But the honourable Member said more. Mr. Deputy came to say that the PAN was the PS PEV,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u306	Ah! That's what I offended!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u307	... but forget that there are different ways of making opposition. It is that what people expect from each Member of this House of the Republic are answers to their problems. And you know what the difference is? It is that the NAP, with only one Member, managed, among the opposition parties, to have the greatest number of political victories in this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u308	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u309	We were able to approve the extension of the social energy tariff so that people would not go cold in their homes,... [[CH protests.]] ... we managed to lower VAT (value added tax) for food with vegetable products and we achieved more than 13 million euros for animal protection. [[CH protests.]] And what are you guys doing? Did you get it? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u310	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u311	Moreover, in today's debate we have not heard one — one! — proposal for the issue of fills. We didn't hear one! Mr Ventura, when he was the sole representative of the party, said that in less than 12 hours, he had changed the meaning of vote three times when we were discussing the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u312	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u313	You come here to make a trailing policy, in which, instead of defending ideas and discussing ideologies, you come to make personal attacks and if we all did the same much, you would point to the Arrival, its militants and those who support it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u314	Uh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u315	If that is the policy they want to make, do not count on the NAP, because if it were « eye for eye» the world would end blind and our role in this House is much more relevant than that. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u316	Your role is zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u317	To give satisfaction, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u318	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us first clarify that it is not « our bench » or « defense of the honor of the bench ». You're just one, uh...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u319	Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u320	...and that's why he defends his honor. It is not the defense of the honor of the PAN bench, because the PAN is the lady.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u321	Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u322	And it's got to be zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u323	You know that, on the issue of incongruity, negotiations with the other parties can be made and must be done, but it is wrong to be here, as it was during the vote of the State budget, in which you,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u324	Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u325	... at the COF meeting ( Budget and Finance Committee ) — and we can ask for a copy of the ata — said that I would vote against and then said « excuse me, Mr President, let's go back », because they whispered to him in the hearing that the PS was finally going to approve. Well, you know, the party you represent...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u326	Mrs. Member! It is not 'the lady', it is Mrs Deputy! There's protocol! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u327	The question of defending honor,... [[BE's protests and CH's counter-protests.]] Mr President, I ask you to ask the Left Block bench to have some calm, because otherwise we can't talk. May I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u328	Mr President, this came from a bench that systematically interrupted the previous speaker...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u329	Mr. President must be absent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u330	...it's really funny. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u331	It's funny, isn't it? Oh, my God! Mr President, I also think you are very grateful after the meeting of the Leaders Conference today that you have asked for some restraint and that you are the leader of the work. So what we ask for is exemption from you. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u332	Well, what I have to say to you is that you are part of the party that advocates ecology so much, but then comes in all the newspapers that your predecessor went to adopt a puppy that then went back because the dog you had at home didn't like her and didn't have a good relationship with her. [[Protests from MP of PAN Inês Sousa Real.]] Do you understand? That's no defense of anything. Your hypocrisy is such that most of the NAP's municipal deputies defend what they defend and move to the Municipal Councils in diesel cars! You continue to impose the way you think we have to eat, live, mobilize ourselves; even in mobility, which has to be done in accordance with your principles. That has a name, ecological dictatorship. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from MP of PAN Inês Sousa Real.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u333	Olé!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u334	We thus conclude the first item on the agenda on political declarations. We move on to the second point, with the discussion of Parliamentary Inquiry No 5 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible Parliamentary Inquiry Commission to ascertain the potential interference of the Prime Minister in the autonomy of the Banco de Portugal to protect the daughter of the President of Angola. Mr André Ventura has the floor to present the proposal of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u335	There's only one word: shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The case that brings us here is an absolutely unacceptable case of government interference and political pressure in the financial regulator and financial markets. The case here today is easy to explain: the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, Secretary General of the Socialist Party, has telephoned the former Governor of the Banco de Portugal saying that we should not treat the daughter of a friend president, the daughter of José Eduardo dos Santos. What is at stake here is the interference of a Prime Minister, who, in order to protect any position of Isabel dos Santos, did not hesitate to interfere in what is most sacred in terms of the financial market, in terms of the regulator's independence; a Prime Minister who, despite all the promises, said that Isabel dos Santos had to be protected, even knowing already — as you knew at the time — that Isabel dos Santos might not bring recommendable companies with him.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u338	Isabel dos Santos today has an international arrest warrant issued by Europol. And it's this family, this money and this position that may be involved in the protection of a Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u339	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u340	It could be just this, but it's not, this case brings a lot more than this. Statements by the former Governor of Portugal point out that the Prime Minister also attempted to interfere with the resolution process of BANIF ( Banco Internacional do Funchal, SA ) in Brussels, in the wake of the regulator, without the knowledge of the Governor of Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u341	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u342	It is the greatest interference and interference by a prime minister to safeguard interests that we have not yet known nor can we foresee. Mr. President and Mr. Members: The law is very clear, the Banco de Portugal is ruled by autonomy and it is the Banco de Portugal which is responsible for preventing and detecting systemic risks on the financial market. by interfering with this autonomy, the Prime Minister may not only have committed some act of political interference, but even other illegal ones of another criminal nature. The political context we have here is also clear: António Costa never wanted Carlos Costa in front of Banco de Portugal. There were few months left for the elections that won the PSD of Passos Coelho, at the time when António Costa was outraged by the retraining of Carlos Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u344	Mr. President and Mr. Members: If this is not a case for a parliamentary committee of inquiry (IPC), then I do not know what cases this Parliament may investigate. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If this is not a case that deserves our research and our attention, then today we will not be rendering any other service to the country than to protect Antonio Costa and fail to our democracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u345	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To assess the need for a parliamentary committee of inquiry we must understand two things: firstly, if the subject matter is important enough to justify an ICC; and secondly, if the suspicions and hypotheses justifying the request of this ICC are plausible. With regard to the first issue, regulatory dependence is indeed important. Without institutions independent of political power as regulators we do not have a full democracy. The Banco de Portugal is one of the main regulators in the country, so the answer to the first question is: yes, the issue is important. The second question to which we must answer, before making this ICC feasible, is whether the suspicions that have been launched, of disrespect for the independence of the regulators by this Government of Antonio Costa, have some credibility and can be confirmed. We need to look at the pattern of behaviour of this Government of Antonio Costa, and I will give some examples. In October 2018, the Government appointed a Member of yours, Mr Carlos Pereira, as administrator of ERSE, a regulatory entity with Mr. — rejected the appointment after a negative opinion of Parliament. In June 2020, Mário Centeno, then Minister of Finance, resigned in a successful game with the Prime Minister, only to be appointed Governor of the Banco de Portugal, a month later, by his former Secretary of State and successor, João Leon. The Governor of Banco de Portugal was appointed by his successor after leaving office as Minister of Finance a month earlier. In July 2020, José Guerra, close to the PS, was appointed a European prosecutor, although he did not first remain in the evaluation of the European jury. In October 2020, on the eve of receiving the « bazouca », the Government removed the independent Vítor Caldeira from the post of President of the Court of Auditors. In July 2021, the Government indicated Ana Paula Vitorino, former Minister and wife of the then Minister Eduardo Cabrito, to the regulator of the area of mobility and transport. In October 2021, António Costa rose against, and I quote, « the absolutely extraordinary doctrine of limiting the powers of governments to give them to independent regulators ». I could say a lot more cases. With all this history of introducing and disrespecting the Government of António Costa for the independence of regulators in Portugal, it is perfectly legitimate to question whether this standard of conduct has also extended to cases, in particular, of BIC ( International Bank of Credit ) and BANIF. That is why we will not impermiss this parliamentary committee of inquiry. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u347	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u348	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recent statements by the former Governor of Banco de Portugal, Dr. Carlos Costa, revealed in the light of the day what may have been unacceptable interference by the Prime Minister with an independent public body. These interferences, having occurred, are considered serious, illegal and, as far as we know, unpublished in Portuguese democracy. The Prime Minister has chosen to remain silent and to threaten the establishment of judicial proceedings, which is not even known if they have actually been instituted. The Prime Minister has so far not responded, and if he has not answered is perhaps not able to disguise a truth that cannot be denied. What does Antonio Costa hide? Oh, my God! I am referring, in particular, to the alleged action of the Prime Minister on the Banco de Portugal's decision to refuse to grant Isabel dos Santos an suitability that only the regulator, exclusively, was legally able to examine and grant and that, under the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, it does not take place in the light of criteria of inopportunity or weighting on the impact on relations with heads of State from other countries. But I am also referring to the difficulties which Mr Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance began with the European institutions, the wake of the Banco de Portugal, in the Banco de Portugal process and which may have impaired the sale of the bank or the limitation of the regulator's ability to act in the exercise of its own powers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 23 November the PSD, responsiblely, addressed to the Prime Minister a number of very concrete questions that have not yet been answered. We asked, of course, whether Mr. Prime Minister contacted Dr. Carlos Costa about the decision to refuse recognition of the suitability of Isabel dos Santos by Banco de Portugal. Mr. Prime Minister will have made a phone call, which he did not deny, then Governor Carlos Costa. What was the purpose of that phone call? Did you intend to influence the regulator's decision? Antonio Costa could not have known that his possible interference was illegal. Your goal was to help Isabel dos Santos? But if Mr. Prime Minister says he wasn't, then why did he call the Governor? These doubts are legitimate, in view of the fact that we know that, at another time, Antonio Costa helped even the Angolan entrepreneur, with the approval of a custom law, to allow him to exchange his participation in the BPI (English Investment Bank ) for a reinforcement in the BCP ( Portuguese Commercial Bank ) — the government to interfere in private interests, also using legislative power, as the PSD denounced in due course. We know two things about BANIF today. First, that the letter of 14 August 2016, sent by Antonio Costa to the European institutions and their interventions may have precipitated the fall of the bank and sabotaged the current sales process. The former Governor was very clear in stating this possibility, which may have led to the taxpayers having to bear a cost of EUR 3, EUR 3 billion with Banif. Secondly, we know that Mr. Prime Minister acted in order to gain partisan gains, creating a narrative on the financial system to attack his opponents, and that action did not defend the national interest. António Costa and Mário Centeno have prepared the way to deliver BANIF to Santander, in a possible business of favor. These actions may have been of interest to the Government, to the Spanish interests, to DG Comp ( Directorate-General for Competition ), but not to the Portuguese, who were called to pay the account. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD is the only party in the opposition that has the power to request a committee of inquiry, the last instrument of appeal for parliamentary scrutiny, after and when the other means are not sufficient. We challenged, first, Dr. António Costa to answer our questions and not to be shielded in the murals of silence. The high office and the responsibility it has requires it to respond to the Portuguese PSD and taxpayers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u349	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is anything that enthusiasts the Members of the Left Block, in particular to me, it is a good committee of inquiry, but until now the arrival has not succeeded in any. I am not excited by any committee of inquiry that came here and I would like to explain why. I believe that, when he proposes it, he is not interested in the content or viability of this committee of inquiry, which he wants to make the number of his presentation. But let's see this example: it's a committee of inquiry about exactly what? On a phone call between two entities, on which there are two versions, impossible to prove, each with his word; the Prime Minister cannot come to the commission of inquiry and responds in writing; the commission of inquiry becomes a stage for the former Governor of Banco de Portugal to distille his sales after being dismissed by the country and now little recognized by the work he has done. That is why this committee of inquiry would serve. It would not have any content, it would only remove the credibility that the institution has gained over time, in the past. Secondly, there has already been one committee of inquiry to BANIF, Mr President. Members, and I advise you to read the report, because there were Members who were in this committee of inquiry and who found facts in it to say that Santander was in favour. There will not be a new committee of inquiry to repeat the work that the Members have already had and with which they then agreed or did not agree. The Left Block, on the basis of that investigation committee, said that there was favour to Santander. All the documents referred to by Carlos Costa, while he was Governor, are in the report of the commission of inquiry. I repeat, everyone! Until that famous letter that António Costa has written to the European Commission and the European Central Bank ( ECB ) is and has been examined in the Banif inquiry committee. The PSD refers to it and, indeed, to praise as a good initiative of the Prime Minister, who came only late. That is why we are not going to re-read the facts in the light of the present to invent new facts. There is no committee of inquiry in this proposal. Now you can tell me something else: is the commission of inquiry about protecting the Portuguese authorities from the Angolan regime? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you need an inquiry committee for that? Oh, my God! Do we not all know how all the parties — or almost all the parties — have the governments and the Banco de Portugal protected the Angolan regime? Do we not know how the PSD sold BPN (English Business Bank ) to BIC and that Minister Miguel Relvas said « does Angola today have a business class that prestigious the country and there is a set of Portuguese entrepreneurs who are building a new reality in Angola »? We did not have José Socrates in Angola to give a word of confidence to the work that the Angolan Government had done in 2006? We did not have Rui Machete, who was Minister of the PSD Government, to apologize to the Angolan Vice-President who is now involved in a corruption case in Portugal, for having been involved in cases of justice here? Didn't we have Cavaco Silva commending the Angolan regime? Did we not have Paulo Portas changing his position, praising the Angolan regime, then working with Mota-Engil in his business in Angola? We did not have a fairly large representation at the MPLA Congress (People's Liberation Movement of Angola) with Teresa Leal Coelho, PSD, Marco António Costa, Ana Catarina Mendes, the President of the Socialist Party Carlos César? Mrs. Members, Isabel dos Santos did not start stealing the Angolan people in 2020. Everyone knew the nature of the Angolan oligarchy and everyone preferred to look the other way.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u351	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u352	Everyone, including Banco de Portugal. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to do a committee of inquiry here, I would like to make a suggestion: a committee of inquiry should be made in the manner in which the Angolan elite washed its money in Portugal with the help of the Governments and the Banco de Portugal, from now on in the BIC.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u353	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u354	I will finish, Mr. President. How does BIC enter Portugal? How does the capital of Isabel dos Santos increase in 2014? How does the BNI ( International Business Bank) of Angola enter Portugal, with the builder José Guilherme and Mário Palhares, of the National Bank of Angola? How does BPA (Portuguese Bank of the Atlantic) enter Portugal, with shareholders such as Manuel Vicente? That's where we'll have an inquiry committee. I'll leave this suggestion to anyone who wants to take it as good. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u355	Propose it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u356	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival brings us, for the second time this month, the proposal from a committee of inquiry. More it seems they want to start a new tradition, this time parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u358	It's called work!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u359	... in which, in fact, they come here trivializing committees when, as has already been mentioned, there was already a parliamentary committee, precisely in 2016, at the time when Mr André Ventura went to the sides of the PSD. We are talking about eight months of work, in which the facts were not only brought to this committee of inquiry, but also at the time Carlos Costa was heard and did not complain about what he is now saying. But let us make it clear that there are issues that concern us in particular. That is why the NAP has approved in this Assembly of the Republic the new model of appointment of the Board of Directors of the Banco de Portugal, precisely to avoid political interference. We must not forget that BANIF is a cap which, this year alone, has cost public funds EUR 178 million. But the committees of inquiry are trivializing when, at the moment, the work to be done — if any — in the face of all the facts that are public, it will be up to the justice and the Public Prosecutor to do his work and the scrutiny, because this House has already done so. Unless they also wish to make known the recent facts brought to the public by the social communication, even to the sides of other political benches, regarding involvement in the case of BANIF, but in that. Ladies and gentlemen don't talk. Therefore, of the two, one: or we are facing a new factuality here and a case that can deal seriously not only with the problems, which have already been mentioned, of the Angolan elite and of what has in fact been the washing of money in our country, or are then trivializing the committees of inquiry, once again. I'm sorry, but the PAN doesn't give that petition. It is that there is serious work to be done and it is not this way.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u360	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a speech on behalf of the Free Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was waiting for the proposer of this committee of inquiry to make his defense of the rostrum to see whether the conditions of relevance of the subject matter, what we can learn from a committee of inquiry, the prestige of this institution and the seriousness of this committee of inquiry were either completed or not. The proposer began by saying that these were serious facts, at present, but then he said that they would happen...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u362	It could have happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u363	... and then said that Antonio Costa did not hesitate to violate his duties to respect the autonomy and independence of the Banco de Portugal. That is, it may have happened, it may not have happened, but one thing is true...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u364	That's why it's an investigation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u365	I'm sorry, but who do I believe? In the defence of a committee of inquiry which can, from the first to the last sentence, maintain the same story and Mr Deputy has a congenital difficulty in maintaining the same argumentative line and the same history of the principle to the end. 'It is very serious, if it has happened, it has not hesitated'... Mr President, before proposing committees of inquiry which this House can endorse, make a commission of inquiry to itself and choose a narrative — choose one! — and then come here. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u366	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u367	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The submission of political power to economic power, especially in the banking sector, has been the practice of successive governments and represents a perversion of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which, for a long time, the CFP has been denouncing and fighting. The party comes forward with a new request for commission of inquiry...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u368	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u369	... concerning the performance of the Government in two pillars: the sale of BPN to BIC Angola and the sale of BANIF to Santander. On the first, the work of the Assembly of the Republic, including that of two committees of inquiry, fully demonstrates the fairness of the CFP proposal : the only way to safeguard the public interest would have been the nationalization of the whole BPN group...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u370	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u371	... and not their sale to BIC Angola for EUR 40 million, after the state had already spent, at the time, EUR 4900 million, an option that had been taken by imposition of the troika and gladly accepted by the Government of Passos e Portas, PSD / CDS, and that if we did not miss the memory, at the time was supported by Mr Ventura today. On the second part, the answer has already been given: the CFP has since first denounced that the resolution of BANIF and its zero-cost delivery to Santander constituted a resolution to the extent and which proves — as the work that the CFP did at the time in the Committee of Inquiry — that was a resolution of a bank caused, in consultation, by the government and by companies partially controlled by Santander — at the time, the VAT — to deliver a clean bank to Santander. This resolution and the delivery of BANIF to Santander complied with the European Commission, which the CFP also denounced at that time and aimed at essentially reorganizing the Portuguese banking fabric and contributing to the creation of European megabanks. We also recall that against all the facts the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, at the time, Carlos Costa, has always defended the business and denied more than the obvious interference of the European Commission and the Portuguese Government, so having lied to the Commission of Inquiry not only demonstrates the role it has always played on behalf of the interests of the financial system, as evidenced by the conclusions that the CFP has proposed and that the resolution of BANIF has been carried out in accordance with the guidance of the European Commission, the Government and the wishes of Santander. The instrument of the committee of inquiry does not exactly serve to squat out the complaints launched by a former governor who, at the right time, said nothing. unlike the Arrival, the CFP denounces the breakdown of the financial system, the submission of public interest to the private interests of banking capital, the role of the European Union, the ECB, successive governments and the Banco de Portugal in the millions that the Portuguese have already put in cleaning up private banks in which the losses were public, but the profits are now private.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u372	They're private!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u373	Since the Portuguese paid the cleaning account at least the country should have kept the public control of the banks involved, placing them at the service of the national economy instead of being handed over to foreign capital. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u374	Mr President, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification. Clearly, the honourable Member has no time to answer, so I ask Mr Ventura whether he intends to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u375	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u376	So you have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u377	Mr President, Mr Duarte Alves, I know that you have no time to answer, so I will take this into account, however, there is something extraordinary here: it seems that the whole left is willing to join together to protect António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u378	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u379	It is that the narrative, from Free to Left Block, is that of the diabolization of Carlos Costa with a single objective: to protect Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u380	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u381	I mean, "but what can he come here to say now, if he's a bad devil and we don't want to hear him? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u382	He's not coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u383	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua says we've got the phone call. Mr. Member, if there was the phone call...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u384	He's not coming! Don't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u385	I'm talking about Carlos Costa and not Antonio Costa, let's see if we understand each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u386	It's dry powder!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u387	If there was this call with this content, Mrs Deputies, I certainly had not given what you gave in the country, because people were wondering if to make a call is the same as calling to say « look, there protect my friend's daughter». This is very different.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u388	He doesn't come to the committee of inquiry and you know! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u389	So, Mrs. Member, we have to hear Carlos Costa...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u390	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u391	... and what we see, from Free to the Left Block, going through your intervention, Mr. Duarte Alves, in the midst of the proletarians and the bankers, is all mixed with one objective: to protect António Costa. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, Mrs. Member, he would answer in writing, but he would answer. But now it doesn't answer anything and if we wait for the PSD answers, we'll wait until after next year's Christmas. Carlos Costa would certainly talk. Mário Centeno, perhaps, had something to say and, perhaps, many others that you don't want to hear! And you know why you don't want to hear? Because they want, I repeat, to protect Antonio Costa until the end...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u392	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u393	...and because they know well that he is your safeguard. This is because the day your Prime Minister leaves is the right that will take care of this country. Because you, even with all the evidence published in the social communication— « Former Governor of Banco de Portugal accuses Antonio Costa », « I confirm that Antonio Costa has informed me that you could not treat Isabel dos Santos bad », « António Costa pressures Carlos Costa » — and they could leave thousands of pages made by the Portuguese every day, they would always have the same objective: to protect Antonio Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u394	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u395	Mr. PSD Member Hugo Carneiro...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u396	Mr André Ventura, I was making a request for clarification to Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u397	I know, but as Mr. Hugo Carneiro has time to answer, if you want... I heard the PSD say it was very serious everything that happened. I ask you: how long will we wait for Mr. Prime Minister's answers? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting against and in three months' time, the PSD has come to propose a committee of inquiry — we have seen what it has done in relation to the referendum! - it's bad. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u398	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by leaving aside all the inconsistencies of the object of this committee of inquiry which I think was widely justified by some Members who spoke before me.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u400	Your friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u401	I would therefore like to begin by saying, using — and Mr Ventura will understand — a football giraffe that I think is familiar to you and will not lead to harm, that the arrival has become a kind of catch-ball of Portuguese policy. [[CH protests.]] And why do you get balls? Because there is a refund problem in the TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) and the Arrival calls for an audition; there is an airport-related problem that appears in the news and the Arrival calls for an urgent debate;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u402	It's work, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u403	... there's a problem with any subject and it comes back to any subject, any regiment to ask for something.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u404	Check this out!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u405	It doesn't create anything, it doesn't discuss anything, it doesn't debate anything, or somehow surfing these things and it wants to catch balls, but some airless balls inside, as Mr. André Ventura is already noticing. Now, in this case, the Commission proposes a book-based commission of inquiry which is a book of small vengeance by the former Governor of the Banco de Portugal and, being a book of small vengeance by the former Governor, it is understood that it is not based on facts, it is based on assumptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u406	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u407	None of these facts have been confirmed. In fact, I would like to recall that those who commented on this same book have come to deny what Mr. Former Governor said. I am reminding myself, for example, of Dr. Lobo Xavier, BPI's administrator, who came to say that none of this was true; of Dr. António Nogueira Leite, who also said that none of this was true, and of Santana Lopes — all dangerous socialists — who also said that this made no sense. I remember, even, Fernando Teles, who was administrator of the BIC, and also now Mr. President of the Republic... [[Ah...!Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u408	... that basically ensures that the government's position has always been in favour of law enforcement and the removal of Angolan entrepreneur Isabel dos Santos from the administration of BPI. In other words, the object of this commission of inquiry is itself a contradiction, because whoever leaves Isabel dos Santos from BPI is precisely Antonio Costa with a law that was passed here, as Mr. André Ventura knows. So it seems clear to me that what you bring here, and let me tell you, is a broccoli sauce without any consistency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u409	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u410	But let me read what Fernando Teles said, who was managing the BIC, in 2016, which basically says that « from the moment there was no final agreement of the negotiations, the Portuguese Government decided unilaterally » to describe ‘the statutes for the whole bank, but the law is directed to the sale of the BPI ». Therefore, it reveals what it seems to me to be obvious, i.e. what Mr. Prime Minister was doing at the time — and also the Socialist Party and the Government — was in fact moving Isabel from the Saints, contrary to what the former Governor says. Another issue that Mr Ventura wants to bring here is that of the BANIF and his resolution and I was — I must say — really surprised by the solemnity with which Mr Hugo Carneiro went up to the rostrum to explain the PSD position. I understand that Mr Hugo Carneiro did not participate in the committee of inquiry to Banif, but I have here with me all the conclusions, and there are already many who have, in fact, abstained from the CDS that was part of his government, PSD / CDS. Now, these conclusions are very clear and are basically three: the first is that the responsibility for everything that happened at the time—and say, in the light of the truth, that it was very serious... I remember that when the Socialist Party took over the government, the PSD narrative was "careful, not damaging, not damaging that this is all done well". But when we went to see it, it was already broken, because when former Minister Mário Centeno met on November 26 with the previous Minister of Finance of the PSD, she informed him that, by the end of the year, BANIF had two possible scenarios: either it was solved or it was liquidated. And if it were liquidated, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, it would ruin everything, because they were economies, particularly the regional economies, Madeira and Azores, which, in some cases, would suffer immensely from that decision. Thus, it was known in this commission of inquiry that its government, the PSD, which managed the country at that time, systematically ignored the solutions that arose during 2015. It olympically ignored these solutions, which, from turning them into a smaller bank, safeguarding the bank and regional economies, but simply arrived on 26 November and there was no more exit. The government had 10 days, I repeat, 10 days, Mr. Member, in which it issued two letters: either the bank was liquidated or the bank was settled. It was 10 days, Mr. Member, and it was this irresponsibility and this incompetence of your government that allowed you to arrive here.... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u411	I think it's unbelievable that you've got the floor to go up to the rostrum to say that you're still going to evaluate what to do if Mr. Prime Minister doesn't answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We should be talking to the PSD again to explain how this happened again...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u412	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u413	I will finish, Mr. President. The fact is that the conclusions of this report are in the Public Ministry, Mr André Ventura, they have been sent to the Public Ministry and they are very clear: it seems to me that there is a very great responsibility of former Governor Carlos Costa. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u414	Mr Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some questions have been raised here and some comments have been made that I do not want them to go blank. What I am seeing is, in fact, Mr Carlos Pereira's rising tone and the awkwardness that the PSD wants to see his questions clarified. And I can only say one thing: we asked Mr. Prime Minister a question, Question 900, which shows that it is an institutional and responsible behaviour of the PSD in the management of this issue. We do not enter the commission of inquiry, that is not how the PSD works. We need to make sensible, serious decisions and respect the institutions. So what we expect is that the Prime Minister also respects Parliament's institution and, in accordance with the Statute of the Opposition Law, has the opportunity to answer the very objective and concrete questions we have raised. Because, if he does not, then we are also free to judge the lack of answers and the facts that would be important to know. I would also like to inform — and to conclude — Mr Ventura that the PSD, as I said, is a responsible party, an institutional party. And let me inform you of something you may not know: if the PSD comes to make such a decision in the future, it is a power that it has. It's not up to the Arrival or any other party to make that decision. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u416	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u417	I will finish, Madam President. We will consider what we understand according to the answers we receive. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u418	To bring this debate to an end, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u419	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An absolute majority should require more scrutiny, more investigation, a confrontation of abusive powers. After the debate we had, we ask ourselves: where is this spirit and that power? The PS Member referred to the 'finding balls' which is the arriving, which goes to all cases, to the TAP, to corruption in institutions, to the financial market, to all cases that arise, every day, before the eyes of the Portuguese. I know you weren't used to it, Mr, but that's something called parliamentary work. And that's what he gets here every day in this house! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Member Carlos Pereira's laughs.]] The left, as always, brought the usual argument : « are too many committees of inquiry », « what is justice », « is in the Public Prosecutor's Office », « are cases of the foam of the days, which are not interested in working. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u420	But who said that?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u421	Everything serves, I repeat, everything serves absolutely, to protect Antonio Costa, the leader of this left majority who goes from PS to the Left Block, who does not stop being part of that same leadership. All — all! — they protect themselves, saying that there was nothing to add, knowing well the fear that Carlos Costa and others have to hear about these events in this Parliament. Indeed, Mr. Member, if everything is so good, if Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa says it's okay, if Lobo Xavier says it's okay, if Fernando Teles says it's okay, the questions the Portuguese will ask today are: "What is the fear of investigating? What's the fear of investigating if it's okay? What is the fear of investigating the truth? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u422	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u423	from the PSD, much more was expected. Just send questions to the Prime Minister and wait for him to say whether or not he confirms the statements he has made and if he made such a phone call it seems a delaying attempt to do nothing to investigate and to continue protecting Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u424	A shame, really!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u425	After all, what are the reasons why the PSD is afraid to set up an inquiry committee at this time when the Portuguese want to know the truth about this matter? Is it so much fear of being a proposal from arrive and of having been enough to take this step that makes you back? Is it the fear of saying that it was a proposal from the House to be presented? The truth should be first.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u426	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u427	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Next Friday, this Parliament will give further proof of its inability to investigate Antonio Costa and the Socialist Government. This case had everything—but even everything! — to be investigated by this Parliament. He had authentic statements from a former head, a letter from the Prime Minister to Brussels, the relations that have long been denounced and compromised by political power with Isabel dos Santos, Luanda leaks and all the documents contained there on this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u428	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u429	I shall conclude, Madam President. We had everything—until we had the support of the Portuguese people—if we didn't come face to face just to protect Antonio Costa. There was a Brazilian journalist who said that, in an investigation, those who hide transparency are already guilty. Today, the whole Parliament will come in as a culprit to protect Antonio Costa. [[On your feet, applause from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u430	We will move on to point 3 of our agenda, the appreciation of Petition No 177 / XIV / 2. a ( APA—Portuguese Prison Support Association ) — Approval of a generalised penalty pardon and amnesty for small crimes, to which draft resolution No 306 / XV / 1 is attached. a (L) — Recommends the evaluation of the implementation of principles of restorative justice for criminal mediation. To present the above draft resolution, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u431	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are a greeting to the petitioners. Portugal has, in criminal mediation, an alternative means of resolving disputes which it uses little, unlike other European countries. There is little tradition in this area, and this is a hypothesis even unknown to most people, including judges. However, this is a hypothesis that sometimes configures a more effective form of protection and intervention of victims in the process and in which the agent can make a way for social rehabilitation and reintegration from the beginning of the process. It is probably not about the main way of doing justice, but it is an alternative to a system that today is too often merely punitive, centered on imprisonment, which is actually overcrowding and without living conditions. We must not forget that, recently, the European Court of Human Rights has condemned Portugal for degrading living conditions in prisons. in this sense, we propose, on the one hand, that the possibility of extending the applicability of the criminal mediation system to other crimes be studied, in addition to those that normally can already be applied, and on the other hand, that there be a public awareness campaign on the existence of criminal mediation and on the ways and methodologies to act on this criminal mediation in existing models. Of course, we also recommend that the judicial and criminal system be provided with the human, technical and material means necessary for the full implementation of restorative justice in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u432	For an intervention, Mrs Cristiana Ferreira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u433	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the exercise of the right of petition by citizens, a constitutionally envisaged universal right. Thus, I begin by greeting the 21 482 subscribers of the petition, which is currently the subject of debate, of the EPAR initiative — the Portuguese Prison Support Association. With regard to the petitioning initiative, we must not fail to register the opportunity to promote debate and reflection on the subject of generalised penalty forgiveness and amnesty for small crimes in the Assembly of the Republic. They allow me only two observations with relevance from the legislative point of view: the first is that the last law of generic forgiveness and amnesty of small crimes occurred in 1999 ; the second is concerning Law No 9 / 2020 of 10 April, which included a set of exceptional measures aimed at reducing the prison population in the context of the public health emergency caused by coward 19. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, knowing that amnesty and the generic pardon of sentences are causes of extinction of criminal responsibility, and that amnesty extinguishes the criminal procedure and, if there has been condemnation, causes the execution of the sentence and its effects to cease and that generic forgiveness extinguishes the penalty, in whole or in part, because this matter is in fact the responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic, we cannot but feel called upon to reflect on these issues. However, and with regard to the content of the petition, its object and its concerns and demands, we cannot ignore a previous issue that this petition and other identical initiatives close, and that is absolutely essential for the debate, which are the issues that lie with the prison system. I therefore believe that the most basic justice is to allege all the work and follow-up carried out by the PSD, in constant supervision and scrutiny, at the Subcommittee on Social Integration and Prison Affairs. On the numerous shortcomings of our prison system — some indeed attacks on the dignity of the person in prison — see the report on the Ombudsman's activity as a National Prevention Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Dehumanized and Degrading Treatment or Punishment. This report, which depicts and presents visits to places of detention, including prisons, alerts to the need to comply with the housing standards established by the Committee on the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe, both to ensure "condemned treatment for prisoners, and to avoid further convictions of the Portuguese State in national and international bodies", which cannot fail to merit our repudiation. The PSD therefore does not ignore this problem. But, in other words, history also shows that only special moments or absolutely exceptional circumstances have determined such measures, which does not invalidate, of course, a serene and very cautious reflection of the political and legislative power on these matters when they do not compromise the safety and legal protection of our fellow citizens. Finally, I make a brief note on the draft Free Resolution that recommends the evaluation of the implementation of principles of restorative justice for criminal mediation. It is that, despite the common reference to the petition on the lack of adequate conditions of the prison system, as far as the matter is entirely different, in our understanding. Criminal mediation has existed since 2007 and this measure can be assessed, as well as its implementation. However, the possibility of applying the principles of restorative justice leads us to another weighting which may not be compatible with this discussion. Here you are, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD again welcomes the initiative of the petitioners, whose concerns will not cease to deserve, first and foremost, an internal and enlarged debate and our best attention. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u434	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u435	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The contemporary Portuguese criminal law has not only a repressive or punitive function, since these types of conceptions are today little humanist and are already dated in time and history. The current criminal system has a vision of reintegration and social reintegration of all those who are convicted in a criminal process. However, if, in theory, one of the main purposes of punishment is the reintegration of prisoners and convicted persons, we can say that, in practice, this is not what happens. And it doesn't happen because human, material and financial resources are lacking in our prison system. In our prison system, there is a clear deficit of social reintegration technicians, who often deal with hundreds of prisoners at the same time. There is also an inadequate and old-fashioned prison park, which is not accompanied by a vision of criminal law that favours special prevention, but also the social and professional reintegration of prisoners. For us, of course, the government must urgently change its strategy for managing prisons and must realize that this is where we should really start promoting social reintegration. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot punish by removing dignity, and there is no dignity when we allow prisoners to maintain conditions of life that are far below precarious. Having said this, we are concerned that this Socialist Party and this Government are not changing this picture. The so promised and acclaimed closure—and this is a lack of planning of this socialist government—of the Lisbon Prison Establishment (EPL) will still begin to emerge from the role and it is already estimated that the process of transition of prisoners to other prisons will come to further pressure the latter, which are also in inhuman and degrading conditions. Given this picture, we are naturally available to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of a law of forgiveness of sentences, which properly analyses the experiences spent in a serious and objective debate and which, above all, is beneficial not only to the prison system, which solves its problems, but also to the country as a whole. However, we are mainly available to discuss deep and structural reforms of our prison system, which favour alternative methods of resolving criminal disputes in restricted and limited cases. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u436	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u437	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first words about this petition are to greet the Portuguese Prisoner Support Association, the promoter, for its action in defense of citizens who are deprived of freedom. To fight for the fundamental rights of these citizens, to demand respect for their dignity and prison conditions that do not make prisons a mere deposit of prisoners, but that serve social reintegration, are objectives that we welcome. The proposal that the petition closes is justified by the increased pessimism of the execution of sentences in Portugal due to the bad conditions of the prison system and the high rate of imprisonment practised in our country. These problems are real and should be considered within the framework of justice policies. In the CFP, we are very concerned about this and therefore we have made a request for a series of hearings to discuss the problems of the prison system, of social reintegration, of those who do so and of those who work in it, of the people to whom it is intended and, above all, for the discussion of measures capable of solving - requirements which, by the way, have been approved unanimously. Let us see that there is a need for conditions for preventive penalties or measures of deprivation of liberty to be replaced by alternative measures that have security conditions. Unfortunately, the number of professionals affected by electronic surveillance is much less than it would be necessary for this measure to be more generalized. It is a low number for the needs that already exist and it will be much more if you do not value the career of these technicians and the same can be said of senior reintegration technicians or prison guards. The poor conditions of the prison system are a reality and the rehabilitation plan continues to move forward. See the EPL, see the case of Ponta Delgada and other serious problems of arrests that are in motion for resolution. The lack of means of enforcement of sentences and social reintegration mechanisms is a problem that we cannot also ignore. However, the question that arises is whether the resolution of these problems goes through the adoption of clemency measures. Actually, these are different questions. Any clemency measures may be justified for humanitarian reasons and the CFP has never refused to consider their application provided that there is a social and political consensus on their acceptance. But they should not be adopted to solve the problems of the prison system that the Government has a duty to resolve and does not solve. On the measures proposed by the Free House, of restorative justice, we have nothing to oppose. We admit, however, that these measures are difficult to enforce, because they involve voluntary membership of the recipient, which may be difficult to obtain, but of course we do not oppose what can be recommended. In short, if we want to achieve the resocial and progressive objectives of our criminal law, we need means to do so. An impoverished prison system of ill-treated workers is not compatible with humanist objectives of respect for the fundamental rights of prisoners. These are things that are incompatible and we must move forward in this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u438	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u439	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I take advantage not only of complimenting the House, but also of saying that it is rare to see a gender imbalance, in this case, in women and therefore I do not cease to stress this unpublished moment in the Assembly of the Republic where five women are sitting at the Bureau, which in some way marks an advance in our country. I welcome the more than 21,000 petitioners, who bring us to the debate a matter of greatest importance. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There have been repeated convictions by the European Court of Human Rights for violating the European Convention on Human Rights, including inhuman or degrading treatment in Portuguese prisons. One of the situations described among several is overcrowding, which is a serious problem which is also recognised by the Ombudsman. The prison population has been increasing, we have already spoken of 13,000 prisoners. It is 13 000 people who, after serving their sentence, do not find reintegration programmes that in any way comply with one of the principles of their own punishment in our country. What has just happened is, as a rule, recurrence, thus calling into question this principle. The European Prison Observatory of the European Union has already concluded that the prison rules laid down by the Council of Europe are in practice ignored. See the case of the Lisbon Prison Establishment which has already been the target of several complaints from international bodies and is about to be closed at least since 2017, but which will remain open until at least 2026. from the point of view, some human rights can wait, but that is not our vision for the country or for the reintegration of penalties, so we will also follow the proposal that the Free House brings today's debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u440	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u441	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am not sure that we all have the notion of how disruptive and innovative the subject we are dealing with in this shy last item of today's agenda. Neither the request for the APA initiative nor the draft Free Resolution are about how to make the prison sentence better or less bad. Both the petition and the draft resolution suggest ending or reducing the imprisonment penalty. Therefore, we are faced with an issue that constitutes a real revolution, a Copernican revolution, in the way we deal with crime. What I want to say is that both a proposal for restorative justice and criminal mediation practices confront us with the need to reflect on the need to maintain prison as the main penalty or on the possibility of looking at alternatives to this prison sentence that exist in many countries of the world today. This reflection only makes sense when we understand that imprisonment as a penalty is not an inevitability nor is it a « sacred cow». Prison as a primary penalty only appeared in the early 19th century, and so far there were other penalties, such as the garrote, the nail and the barracks, the amputation of members — things much worse than prison. There are many people who have the hope that, no. 3. the millennium, solutions to crime arise better than prison sentence. Restorative justice is precisely about that. We understand only what restorative justice is, what the draft resolution of the Free is about, if we go back a little until the 60s of the last century, when abolitionists and victims met in an improbable marriage, a sort of Eduardo and Monica, of the Urban Legions — those who like the music of the Urban Legion will know what I am saying. The abolitionists refused the prison sentence because they said it was very bad for the crime officer, because it prevented his resocialization. Victims, on the contrary, dealt with the rights of the victims and said that the prison was bad for the victims of crimes, because it did not allow the damage they had suffered to be repaired. the improbable union of the thought of vitimologists and abolitionists emerged the restorative proposal. In 1974 there was an episode that, in fact, gave rise to a documentary called The Elmira Case. in a very small community called Elmira, Ontario, Canada, two young men, on a heavy-alcohol night, practiced 22 crimes, especially harm crimes. Life had not been very generous with them and expected them the usual destiny: they would be the clients of the custom of criminal justice. But something quite improbable happened. They found a prosecutor and a judge who thought the prison sentence would not be the right solution for them and therefore promoted, for the first time, practices of criminal mediation victim-aggressor. That is, they asked these two young men and their victims whether they intended to participate in sessions in which the victims would expose the damage they suffered and the aggressors would manifest whether or not their willingness to repair these damage. This process lasted for a few months and this successful mediation resulted in the reparation of the damage caused to the victims and the need for the aggressors to be convicted of imprisonment. From 1974 onwards, these restorative practices spread around the world and in Portugal — stop! — in 2007, Law No. 21 / 2007, which allows criminal mediation during the investigation phase for a wide range of complaints-dependent crimes. By 2012, this law had been applied and the Public Prosecutor's Office sent some proceedings for mediation, thus avoiding the execution of criminal judgment and condemnation. In recent years, that law has ceased to be applied. In 2009 our Code of Enforcement of Sentences created a possibility of post-sensential mediation, i.e., in a prison context, the meeting between prisoners and their victims for the purpose of pacifying the interpersonal conflict. I admit that the Members and the Members. Members know that most of the crime we have happens in proximity contexts. We don't make victims, in most cases, unknown, our victims are our next. Therefore, for victims, the repair of damage and the pacification of interpersonal conflicts may be a relevant objective. That is what this is about, and in the Government Programme, there is the intention to bet on alternative conflict resolution mechanisms such as criminal mediation. Today, we commemorated the delivery of the Human Rights Prize in this Assembly of the Republic. The European Union and the Council of Europe believe that it is a fundamental right for victims to participate in mediation programmes. When we transposed the directive in 2007 we were respecting a European Union orientation and, therefore, perhaps this is the time for Portuguese and Portuguese to be able to know restorative justice and criminal mediation as a viable proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u442	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u443	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We thank the authors of this petition, the Portuguese Prison Support Association, for exercising their civic rights and thus promoting this debate here in the Assembly of the Republic, as well as all the support they have given to prisoners. However, we cannot follow the vast majority of what the petitioners want, because they present the proposal that, in addition to an amnesty for small crimes, be granted a sentence for all convicted prisoners up to six years in prison. Now, if someone has been punished with six years in prison, it is because he has certainly committed a crime with some seriousness and, in doing so, he will have to pay the penalty that has been prescribed. Whoever commits crimes — thefts and assaults — has to pay for it. It tells the people that "guilty cannot die alone" and, if there are convicted people who are arrested, we cannot release them at any cost without having met the penalty. To forgive is to send exactly the sign that what you did is not so bad. And more: what would we say to the victims? Do victims not have the right to be protected either? There are people who one day have had a problem in their lives that led them to commit a crime, but the truth, no matter how much it costs, is that, in general, it has harmed others. We can't forgive. We can and should, yes, help their rehabilitation, return to society. Being condemned for once doesn't mean that he's a criminal all his life. Without pardon of widespread punishment, without amnesty, but rather with the possibility of working and even studying within prisons, so that this rehabilitation is done and then, when they fulfill the penalty and go out in freedom, be easier not their reintegration, but their integration, and get new life projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u444	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u445	This petition concerns a relevant subject, which is the lack of conditions for prisoners, overcrowding of chains and the degradation of many of our prisons. It is true, but this lack of conditions is not only for prisoners. So, and the prison guards, many handed over to their fate, with unworthy wages, sometimes being few elements and having few working conditions to deal with who commits crimes? And whoever commits crimes, my lords, whether they want or not, is a criminal. And the superior technicians of the prison services, with lack of incentives, lack of career progression, often forgotten by successive governments? There is much talk about the human dignity of prisoners, but where is the dignity of those who work in these conditions and the dignity of the victims? [[Congrats from the CH.]] The degradation of prisons is a fact, their overcrowding, too. In fact, we now have 14 prison establishments in Portugal which are overcrowding. This petition states to some extent that « prison sentences are met in Portugal in a way far more severe than those laid down in the law ». That's not true! Sometimes serious crimes have far less years of imprisonment than those you should. And, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, contrary to what they say in the petition, who commits a very serious crime, who rapes, who intentionally kills, sometimes cruelly and without repentance, only has one way, which is to rot in jail. And so, yes to life imprisonment! [[Congrats from the CH.]] one thing we agree with: our justice system is very long and complex—we subscribe entirely. The country and the Portuguese cannot witness, impatience and serene, the processes that are being pursued for years and years, a justice for the rich and a justice for the poor, to which the Socrates, the Salgado, the Pines of this life continue to pewish because, by having more means, they can postpone or prevent the penalties. We don't deal with that. Justice must be swifter and must work for all, and the place of the corrupt, too, is in prison. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot follow the draft Free Resolution which recommends the implementation of the principle of restorative justice for criminal mediation. In order for the people at home to perceive, and with concrete examples, it could happen that the elderly, so often mocked, could come to an agreement with whom they mocked them or even, in the event of theft of a house, the thief and the owner of the house communicated and reached a final agreement. We can't deal with that. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u446	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u447	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate the APA on its petition, and on the subject which is relevant, and to follow up, firstly, some of the complaints which, in general, were also accompanied by the other parliamentary groups, although not so obvious, by the Socialist Party, because they cannot deny reality. Unmistakably, we must also follow the condemnation of the conditions in many of the prisons in our country, which have led to international criticism because of some specific examples, namely that of the Ponta Delgada chain, and the demonstration of how often what we call the "social reintegration model" in Portugal does not work. We have another punitive model than a reintegration model. These complaints, I believe, are not liable to be denied, because they are facts on which we must work. But it is also true that, on these matters, the petition goes no further than the complaint and we must all demand other public policies, particularly when we have already done so. Several parliamentary groups have already done so in the State Budget and several of the proposals have been plunged by the Socialist Party and, I believe, these are the political choices that each of us will take to its curriculum. The APA requests something else: it calls for a reduction in penalties or amnesty in some cases, such as what happened in 1999. from the Left Block, I must say that we look at this challenge and this debate without any anathema and no dogma. This debate should be done in a thoughtful and sensible way. Who, for example, has dogmas or anathemas on this subject was against Law No. 9 / 2020, warning that with its application it would be the end of the world. However, we realized that nothing that threatened to happen and the rate of recurrence of those who were released under Law No 9 / 2020 was less than 2 %. We should therefore discuss this with the serenity he deserves. Is it possible and we should encourage alternative measures for imprisonment? I think so. The Left Block already has a curriculum on this very wide subject. We will insist on and follow up on measures in this area. But it is also true that the petition, although referring to the need to invest in this type of alternative measures for the resolution of penalties, does not really focus on this. So, going directly to the heart of the petition : will the Left Block be available to discuss with other benches the possibility of setting up an amnesty for small crimes, reducing penalties for small crimes? We are open to this debate, with serenity, and it will certainly be exactly in the terms I am saying: there is openness on our part to initiate a debate, to do so with serenity and without social alarm. We will start this process if you like. Not having the will of other benches, the process will remain as it is currently, i.e., non-existent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u448	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u449	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when people are used at home, as a political argument, it is appropriate to speak the truth. The three points which the proposal for the Book has are very simple: firstly, to assess the implementation of the existing criminal mediation system — which already exists! — and to study the possibility of applying the principles of restorative justice to crimes of a different nature; secondly, to provide the judicial and criminal system with material, technical and human resources capable of implementing alternative dispute resolution methods in criminal matters; thirdly, to carry out a public assessment and awareness-raising campaign for the existence of the criminal mediation system. That's it, and that's it. It's thoughtful, it's careful and always thinking, first of all, about the victims. This is the truth of what is in the Free Project.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u450	For an even more brief speech, Mr Pedro Pinto, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u451	Mr President, just to tell Mr Rui Tavares quickly that we have to explain to the people who are at home with a language they understand. What I said at home, no one noticed. [[L. Protests.]] The truth is this: you want an agreement between the criminals and the victims. But in what situation are the victims going to be? In what vulnerable situation will the victims be? That is the big issue. unlike the Free, we do not defend criminals, we defend the victims. That is our great question and our great divergence, and it will always be! [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why, Mr President, at this parliamentary bench, we are concerned about how the victims will be left and to which Mr has not responded. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u452	What doesn't matter to you is the truth. They don't actually pass the card!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-14.u453	We're at the end of our agenda. [[L-protests and CH-protests.]] I would like to, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the agenda for tomorrow's meeting at 3 p.m. the first point is the setting of the agenda by the CH, with the theme « Security forces and their careers, racism and persecution by the political power in Portugal », in which the joint discussion will generally take place of draft Law Nos 23 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Crime of incitement to hate against members of criminal police and judicial bodies, 35 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Increases to €450 the fixed component of the service supplement and risk in the security forces taken by the Republican National Guard military and police officers, 255 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Application of the summary process to the trial of resistance crimes and coercion against civil servants, 379 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — First amendment to Law No 95 / 2021 of 29 December, with a view to regulating the characteristics and standards of placement, activation, signalling and use of portable cameras ("bodycams") by the security forces, and the form of transmission, storage and access to the data collected and 397 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Right to party affiliation of security forces agents other than military or militarized agents of the effective standing frameworks. Resolution Projects No. 315 / XV / 1 will also be appreciated. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government ensure more proximity policing and 316 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government improve the data contained in the Annual Internal Security Report. The second point is that we will have a vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wish you a good rest of the day and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 58 minutes.]]
