ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have quorum and all parliamentary groups are present, so we can start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Today there is no dossier to be read therefore under Article 227. that of the Rules of Procedure, we will initiate, directly, to the assessment of Interpellation No 1 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — On general policy, focused on solutions for the defence of the purchasing power and the living conditions of the people, blocking the increase in prices and ensuring the increase in wages and pensions. To open the debate, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP has promoted this request to the Government, focusing on solutions for the defence of the purchasing power and the living conditions of workers and the people, so that the Government is called on to respond before the Assembly and before the country for the political options it insists on maintaining the face of increasing national problems. From the concrete life and reality of the country, with this initiative we denounce the increasing difficulties faced by workers, reformers and populations, we give voice to their concerns and aspirations and point out the path of solutions that must be realized, from the outset, by blocking the increase in prices and ensuring the increase in wages and pensions. Every day that passes, wages and pensions are shorter for increasing expenses. More and more month left at the end of the salary! The need and urgency of the general increase in wages assume special centrality to respond to the increase in cost of living. With price escalation, many of the wage increases verified, including the increase of the minimum wage, at the beginning of the year, to €705, less than necessary, have already been cancelled by inflation in recent months. It is urgent and indispensable to increase the national minimum wage, aiming at €850 in the short term, with an immediate interim increase. Also, and from then on with collective bargaining, valuing rights and careers, we can increase the average wages of Portuguese workers, as well as it is necessary to recover and value the wages of employees of the Public Administration. But if the increase in wages is a central issue in recent times, much more is to be done to defend employment with rights, from the point of view of the need to eradicate the scourge of precariousness. A permanent job must correspond to an effective contract. The term contract must be the exception rather than the rule. The'special' contracts of'very short duration' must be concluded once and for all, as this infamous 180-day 'experimental periods' must end. We cannot lose the purchasing power of workers and their share in the distribution of wealth. In the case of reforms and pensions, the situation is also serious, with inflation already far higher than the increase in pensions. What the reformers are going to receive this week of increase in their reform is not to cope with the cost of living. Keep leaving them with a much lower purchasing power than they had in January. The recovery of the purchasing power of workers, pensioners and pensioners is an imperative need for social justice, but also for the dynamisation of domestic demand, ensuring economic activity and employment with rights. However, it is not acceptable that, in view of the spiral of price increases that have been occurring almost a year ago, now extended by the sanctions on the pretext of war, the Government refuses control and pricing measures, in particular of essential goods and services, allowing economic and multinational groups to accumulate profits of millions, at the same time requiring the loss of purchasing power to the vast majority of the population. The Government refuses to increase wages and pensions, despite its continued erosion, which is further aggravated by the increase in interest rates and its inevitable impact on the increase in housing costs. For months they tried to convince us of the thesis of 'conjuncural and transitional inflation' ; that this was going on in a short time and that increasing wages was wrong because of 'inflationary spiral'. Do not keep on seeking. ” They imposed what is being, in practice and in real terms, a cut of wages and pensions. We said: when inflation was low, wages were not increased because it was not necessary; when prices fire, wages are not increased because of inflation! Now, months later, the Prime Minister has already said that "the bad news for the Portuguese is that unfortunately we will continue to have inflation. (...) Yes, prices will continue to rise. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members of the government, then what is it like? Oh, my God! If they now say the opposite of what they've been telling us, what explanation do they have for keeping this salary breakdown? Oh, my God! And on the direct consequences of this inflation, what measures will be taken, from the incomes of the houses? Will the indexing of income increases to this galloping inflation result in an even more unbearable increase for people? Or are they going to act to stop this climb? Will they finally intervene to defend the tenants, promote the stability of contracts, stop speculation? As a penalty, the government imposes widespread degradation of living conditions, brutally aggravates social injustices and inequalities and sacrifices the national economy, all for the benefit of economic groups and multinationals. The fuel situation is particularly scandalous. In order not to confront the oil and not to question the well-known market which guarantees them colossal profits, the government refuses to take measures to control and fix prices, allowing the continuation of a spiral of increases that have lasted for years. For months, the PS government rejected the CFP's proposals and preferred to align in the liberal demagogy that the problem is only in taxes and not in the way the economic groups set prices at their best. It then decided to take fiscal measures, selling the illusion that the price increases paid by consumers would be offset. Since then, the government's revenue from fuel taxes may have been reduced, but prices have continued to rise and consumers are paying much more expensive gas and gasoline today. When we talk about fuel increases for consumers, we are not just talking about individual transport. We're talking about micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers and fishermen, fire companies, collectivities and social institutions. It is the whole country that is hit and sacrificed for the benefit of oil. These are redoubled reasons for implementing the solutions proposed by the CFP for price control and fixing. With these policy options of the PS Government, potential and resources are disregarded which, duly exploited and put into service in the country, would allow to respond to immediate needs and put Portugal on a path to production, employment, wealth creation and development. With regard to national production, particularly agri-food, the situation is no less worrying. The growing external dependence, with emphasis on agri-food production, the increase in cost of living and the refusal to increase wages and pensions, the difficulties in access to health or denial of children's and parents' rights are undeniable examples of the difficulties that need to be overcome and the problems that need to be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u4	Although Portugal has important potential and productive resources, the last decades have been characterized by its de-use and the destruction of the productive apparatus and national production, stressing external dependencies which, especially in the international context that we have lived in the last few years, have proved blatantly contrary to the guarantee of satisfying the needs of the people and the country and a way of sovereign development for Portugal. These difficulties are now added as a result of the accelerated and sharp increase in the costs of production factors and intermediate goods, difficulties in the world distribution chains and, in the case of agro-food production, of drought that reaches the national territory. In view of this reality, the PS and the government close their eyes to the problem and refuse to act to solve it. They continue to depend on the Portuguese supply of confidence in the possibility of importing cereals and other food goods which, with some investment and a policy oriented in this regard, Portugal could be producing for itself instead of buying out. Alongside these important issues, the problems in access to public services and their ability to ensure universal social rights that correspond to them have been significant concerns in national life. In the difficulties of the National Health Service or public school and in the limitations of the social security response or in the lack of day care, there are many and obvious examples of de-investment, chronic underfinancing and devaluation of public services as a central axis of the right policy options. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This policy of the PS government puts Portugal in an even more vulnerable situation in view of the foreseeable negative developments in the international economic situation. The government has been in office for 100 days, but the illusions that could exist about the absolute majority of the PS and about its political options have been on the way for a long time. It is urgent to reverse this and the CFP has presented the proposals which point to the solution of these problems. With this appeal to the Government we give voice to the struggle of workers, from north to south of the country, against exploitation, impoverishment, the attack on rights. in this fight for a better life is also the great reason for hope and confidence that gains more strength. At this time, thousands of workers from all sectors begin their march towards this House to make them hear their voice and the righteousness of their struggle. We want to greet these workers here, to welcome the firmness of those who know how to have the strength of reason and unity and to demonstrate here, from this plenary session, the solidarity of the CFP forever. We do not ignore the weight of decades of right-wing policy in the harsh reality we face, nor the obstacles that constitute the options of the PS and the absolute majority that the government supports. But today as always, the CFP does not give up the country, it does not give up fighting for the alternative policy that needs to be put into practice in order to respond to national problems and ensure Portugal in the future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u5	Mr Bruno Dias, the Bureau records two entries for requests for clarification. I believe that there will be no objection on the part of any parliamentary group to which they may be presented and answered immediately. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, in order to formulate the first request for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would first of all like to congratulate the CFP's Parliamentary Group on choosing the issue of today's inquiry. To discuss inflation and social responses is to discuss the theme that Portuguese certainly feel the most in daily life. What a difference, for example, with regard to the debate that populists marked for yesterday, a motion of censure against the right opposition. [[CH protests.]] Let's go to the issue of inflation. Inflationary pressure results from international and external factors in our country. On the one hand, the COVID-19 pandemic led to ruptures in raw materials and distribution chains, causing pressure on prices and real breakdown phenomena, which the CFP should consider positive, but which affects, and much, an international economy view based on interdependence, not only in Portugal as well as in the rest of Europe. Portugal is not an economic island. Mr Deputy, for people like you or me, born in the second half of the 1970s or the first 80s, there is no memory, in our adult life, of the inflationary pressure of this dimension. This crisis, moreover, has allowed a debate on the dependence of the European Union on certain industrial products and the agricultural sector, such as cereals. The invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation has, and much, increased this inflationary pressure and price pressure. For example — and even if it is not a factor that interests the CFP — the truth is that Portugal must continue to support its economy by continuing to reduce public debt and by presenting budgetary responsibility. How does the CFP defend controlled price policies, which naturally lead to tariff deficits, without increasing deficits and increasing pressure on public accounts? On inflation, a first important point is that it is important to defend consumers, particularly the most vulnerable. Between October and June, the tax burden on fuels has fallen 18 percentage points, allowing the impact on families to be 28 cents per litre on gasoline and 32 cents per litre on gasoline. What real alternatives did the CFP have to set prices administratively, with clear consequences for the creation of a tariff deficit? In electricity, the Iberian Mechanism allowed a saving of 14 %. What is the position of the Portuguese Communist Party in relation to this Iberian policy,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ... that allowed a 14 % decrease in the electricity tariff? At business level, we have supported transport companies, support for fertilizers and clear support for all the most disadvantaged sectors, particularly those that were most dependent on gas. For families...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u7	What families?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u8	For the most disadvantaged families, there was support from the food cabaz. Recognizing that we have a huge historical challenge and that economic history gives no reason to the proposals for administrative fixation of the prices presented by the Communist Party, what are the real alternatives of the Portuguese Communist Party to solve this economic and inflationist crisis? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u9	For a second request for clarification, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I have listened to the CFP to talk about inflation and the CFP has this intellectually basic and manichaistic view of the economy, according to which, after decades without inflation, the entrepreneurs, one day, woke up and remembered to raise prices. [[PCP protests.]] They all gathered in a dark cellar and decided to increase prices to harm people. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the economy is much more complicated than that. We had an unprecedented monetary injection in the last decade, we had a pandemic that interrupted supply chains, we had a resumption of consumption that was faster than the resumption of production and, above all — although you do not admit it — we had an invasion in the heart of Europe, which brought into dispute two of the main producers of the primary sector. It was all this, together, that created inflation. It was not the evil entrepreneurs who, one day, woke up and decided to increase prices at the same time. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u11	This is a simplistic and manician vision, which in no way contributes to solving the problems. We have a very large imbalance between what people want to consume and what they can produce. This imbalance is not eliminated by imposing price limits, it is not eliminated by restrictions on profits. On the contrary, what we need is a rising economy, with incentives to produce more and that will be able to reactivate the interrupted production processes, so that production will rise again, going against consumption and stopping this rise in prices. The economy is how it works.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u12	Yeah, yeah! And the housing too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u13	Creating barriers to this recovery with unjustified price control, with nationalisations and limits to profits is the worst we could do at this time. We cannot add shortage to the inflation we already have. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u14	Ask the Venezuelans how this works. If you don't believe in us, ask them how those measures worked there. Ask the Argentines, ask the Cubans, who are with an inflation of more than 20 %, who have to use the one-year salary to buy a TV and have to use the 30-year salary to buy a car. Ask them! On inflation and purchasing power, I don't think you have much to teach this House. But, yes, the State can play a role in combating inflation. The Portuguese State may, in particular, contribute to ensuring that prices are not high, in particular by reducing the tax burden on these products. The State is still responsible for about half of the cost of fuel. The price of gas oil in Portugal, without taxes, would today be about 1, 10 €. That is the burden the State has on inflation. The State may also return income to families, lowering the tax burden, but although Portugal has been the country of Europe which has increased the tax burden on the lowest wages, this House rejected a proposal to reduce the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) at the lowest levels. [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] right now, in a language that you understand,... [[You guys?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u15	... too sweat of those who work flourish in fruit in other hands, in the hands of the State, in the hands of a sweeping State. That's what happens and that you should be able to regret. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PCP protests.]] Mr Bruno Dias, we have a problem, but what these CFP proposals tell us is that there is no situation that is so bad that the CFP ideas cannot make it even worse. But if you really think these solutions work, challenge you again, for the third time in this House, telling us where these measures worked. In which country did communism work, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u16	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Mr. Hugo Costa and Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto the questions they have raised, until this very interesting sequence of requests for clarification demonstrates a surprisingly similar approach. [[IL protests.]] [[Don't! It has nothing to do with it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u18	The gentlemen. Members have, in substance, brought an approach that is substantially the same, although on the part of the Liberal Initiative has come with that very strong additive of arrogance, pesporence and intellectual dishonesty that have characterized their interventions. [[PS laughter.]] So, you end up making insults...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u19	Insults? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u20	...to our intelligence—the intelligents are them, of course! -,... [[PS and IL rice.]] ...to teach us that, deep down, what this really needs is tax bills for the richest. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u21	The problem we have is that, as Mr. Deputy of the Liberal Initiative said, there is no incentive to produce any more. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what the most accurate Galp is really incentives to produce more! That's why they closed the Matosinhos refinery because they lacked the incentives! The problem of Jerome Martins and Sonae is the lack of incentives not to speculate, do not squeeze small producers and at the same time speculate with prices, also exploiting consumers! [[PCP applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when you mention that inflation results from international factors and that Portugal is not an economic island, the question we are asking is whether you are the Members. Ladies and gentlemen have only found out about that now. In February, March, April and May, when we discussed workers' wages, didn't you know it was? Oh, my God! So, now, the government is saying that inflation came to stay and at the time it was a transitional and conjunctural thing? Oh, my God! Who did you want to fool? Oh, my God! When we talk about the importance of increasing wages, we do so precisely because the role of the State is not to subsidize the profits of the economic groups, it is to ensure fiscal justice, social justice and purchasing power, so that the national economy is dynamized. [[PCP applause.]] When we talk about it, it is natural that there are those who are concerned about tax bills for the richest, but we really want justice and development and that workers have their wages justly increased. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u22	What is the country where communism works? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u23	Come on! Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u24	To open the debate, on the Government's side, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues of the Government : We are here, the request of the CFP, to discuss a topic that is obviously fundamental to our country and to all of us. The times are really demanding. We now did not have an illegitimate, incomprehensible and unjustified war, such as the one we live with the invasion of Ukraine, and we would not be experiencing the situation we have today, the challenges facing Portugal, Europe and the world as a whole. After two years of pandemic and now with this war, we are experiencing disturbances that impact our society and our economy, with obvious constraints in supply chains, with the progressive shortage of raw materials and with the increase of imported inflation as well. The Government is well aware of the demands and difficulties we all face and is well aware of its responsibilities for the past, now and the future. The Government has always been with Portuguese, workers, families and businesses. Moreover, this should be the driving line of any public policy, regardless of the political orientation of each government. There is only real development if it is inclusive. This is what we believe, and that is what we do. That is why, in democracy, improving living conditions, equal opportunities, the effectiveness of social policies and combating poverty, social exclusion and inequalities are the first priority. And they are also the first priority of this government for our country, a progressive country, innovative in social development, with instruments for all people, I repeat, all people and not just some, regardless of their origin, to have conditions for a dignified, integrated and fulfilling life. All of them, without exclusion! This is our mission. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The pandemic gave us all many lessons. It has shown us that it is increasingly necessary to act in two dimensions on a permanent basis: a dimension of immediate response to atypical situations, emergency and urgency, and a dimension of structural reforms and investments to meet the requirements of the present and the construction of our collective future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has always had a dialogue, constructive and ongoing action on the ground with results. We have always been on the front line, with the Portuguese, with the families, with the workers and with the companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have always been with the Portuguese when, in an absolutely unpredictable way, a pandemic fell on the world and the government has, in an unprecedented and unprecedented way, mobilized more than EUR 5 billion for extraordinary measures in the field of social security. We have always been with the Portuguese, reaching more than 3 million and 700 thousand people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u26	What about the other 7 million? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u27	... with support for employment, families, the most vulnerable people, an unprecedented response and obvious results for all of us. We have always been with the Portuguese when we increased the lowest pensions, in a total now accumulated of €840 per person, since 2017. We have always been with the Portuguese, placing a strong stake in the future of social security, succeeding in restoring confidence in the system and ensuring more than 26 years of its sustainability, because we believe in social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have and will always have the concern to ensure and strengthen the sustainability and diversification of sources of social security financing, and that is why I use it to share with the honourable Members. Members, first of all in the Assembly, who have decided that the committee that will be set up for the diversification of sources of funding and to ensure confidence in the system will be coordinated by Dr. Mariana Trigo Pereira, with the involvement and active participation of the International Labour Organization, who has accepted this challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We were with the Portuguese when we supported people, families and companies with measures such as the simplified layoff, of course, because the market alone did not work. We were with the Portuguese when, against many tides and many walls, we increased the national minimum wage by 40 %, which since 2015 grew from €505 to €705. We have been with the Portuguese when we led in Europe, in full pandemic, the realization of the European Pillar of Social Rights, at the Porto Summit, with a concrete plan of action, with objective and quantified goals for job creation, combating poverty and training as a factor of inclusion and transformation of lives. We have also been with the Portuguese when we created the conditions for reaching the level of unemployment that we now have, the lowest of this century, the result of the mobilization of all in this common objective, believing that employment is, in fact, what we value and guarantee a dignified life. Our unemployment rate is, according to the latest disclosed data, 6 to 1 % away from previous crisis unemployment rates. Social security has reached the historical value of 4 million and 800,000 workers to be part of the formal economy and social security system, which means that they have entered the formal market since 2015 more than 1 million people, who have become part of the collective social protection system. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has been, is and will always be with the Portuguese. We are and will always be with the Portuguese: with this social security budget for 2022, which has just entered into force, in which we have increased social protection mechanisms by 5, 7 billion euros compared to 2015 — that is to strengthen social support —... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u28	... with the implementation of the National Strategy for Combating Poverty, including the creation for the first time of the child guarantee, to remove 123 000 children from the situation of extreme poverty;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with the strengthening of the family allowance for 400 000 children; with the creation of the free network of day care centres; with the recovery of income and tax relief, at the home of IRS, for 1, 5 million families, through the collapse also of the steps; with the strengthening of IRS Young, increased to five years; with the increase of the minimum existence, exempting more 250 000 families of IRS—that is, these are realisations! — with the extraordinary increase in pensions, retroactive to January, by the postponement imposed on the country, amounting to EUR 100 million, paid in July to 2, 3 million pensioners,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that we now put on the ground at the service of the Portuguese. We are and will continue to be with the Portuguese: with the mobilisation of the PRR (Retirement and Resilience Plan ) for structural and decisive changes to our collective future, with the creation of permanent employment for young people; with the digital revolution of social security and the customization of responses to the needs of each person, of which is the start of the Pension Service, which has now covered 21,000 people; with the automation of social benefits, which will begin with the family allowance; with the creation of the single social benefit to eliminate difficulties in access to the many benefits; with the reform of vocational training as a decisive tool for social transformation and competitiveness; with an unprecedented investment in social responses of EUR 700 million for more than 50,000 people; with the proposal of law, ambitious and bold, which we will discuss, tomorrow, in terms of labour law, with a firm fight for precariousness and with the aim of negotiating young people in the labour market, with a clear commitment to the reconciliation of labour, personal life and family life and competitiveness, which we will ensure that we will achieve a firm balance and will. But we also have extraordinary measures — as Mr President-in-Office of the Council announced yesterday and presented — to deal with the difficult and demanding moment we are living, which has already mobilized more than EUR 1682 million, through measures to contain the increase in the final price of costs, but also through support for firms with greater exposure to increased costs or measures to support the most vulnerable families, which is the example of extraordinary support to deal with the increase in the food tank, amounting to EUR 128 million paid to more than 1 million people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has been, is and will always be with Portuguese, families, workers and businesses, with rigour, fairness and ensuring the balance of public finances, with the confidence that has been given to us by the Portuguese, solidarity and with security in building our collective future, a future for which this Government has a horizon and a mission chosen by the Portuguese. We invest in the social state, in valuing work, in the best and fairest redistribution of wealth, but also in a state closer, more effective, simpler and more focused on the concrete and immediate response to all. So we also use to share with you that we will create, this year, a new figure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u29	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u30	... integrated in the Public Administration, with the role of provider of the social security user. A social state that gives answers to people, a government that is always on mission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u31	The Minister has eight requests for clarification and the Bureau is informed that she will respond in blocks of four. For a first request for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, increase the prices of fuels, electricity, gas, food goods — many by double their value — increase the costs with housing, increase the profits of energy economic groups and large distribution, among others, only increase, in order to ensure the replacement and exploitation of purchasing power, wages and pensions. Not because it's not urgent, not because it's not possible, but because the PS and the other parties on your right don't want to do it. The PS government, with its options, feeds a path of impoverishment of workers and pensioners. There is financial availability to give tax credits to large businesses and economic groups, to grant public support, to subsidize them in the payment of low wages, but there is no financial availability or political will to significantly value wages and pensions. It is not a matter of lack of money, Mrs. Minister. It's a PS choice about where the money is going, and the PS chooses to offer that money to the patronage. Madam Minister, where is the 40 € increase in the national minimum wage? Where is the extraordinary increase in pensions, even now being received with retroactives? Oh, my God! They were completely absorbed by inflation, by the brutal increase in the prices of the same goods and services whose prices the Government refuses to control, while maintaining undamaged millionaire profits and giving green to the sacrosanct markets. The urgent response to workers and pensioners is that of the general valuation of wages and the extraordinary increase in pensions for all, in order to restore and value purchasing power, an answer that is necessary now, because it is now that the difficulties are gross! It is now that before the middle of the month there are no more wages or pensions for hundreds of thousands of workers and pensioners to meet their expenses, that more than 525 000 workers are in poverty, impoverishing work, that hundreds of thousands of pensioners have poor pensions. It is now that we need to guarantee answers. So, Madam Minister, is it today that the Government assumes to respond to the present moment, the increase in the minimum wage for the €850 in the short term, the end of the expiry of the collective contract to increase the average wages, the increases for the Public Administration, in order to compensate for the lost purchasing power in more than a decade and to value careers, the increase of all pensions, rest and valuing the purchasing power of pensioners and pensioners? It is that, if we do not take this path, the PS is directly responsible for increasing inequalities, poverty between workers and reformed workers and for the degradation of working and living conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u33	For a second request for clarification, Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Minister, I confess that I am totally surprised to hear your speech because I do not know, frankly, where the country is that the Minister is ruling, but clearly that it is not Portugal. In fact, firstly, I will ask you the following question: only today, that Mr. Prime Minister is not here, really say there, Mrs. Minister, if you know what you are going to do with the absolute majority. Tell me! You look like a child with a supersport car: they're happy, but they don't get to the pedal. They can't drive! They can't, clearly! [[PSD laughter.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] Mr Minister, one question I would like to ask you is this: since we are talking about income and a very important announcement from Mr. Prime Minister on the average wage and on the increase of the average wage to reach these 20 % in the coming years, tell us there how many companies in the state business sector have already received the order to try to follow this objective launched by Mr. Prime Minister. Just to be more or less aware! Open... Mr Minister, now of this great objective of reaching 48 % of GDP (gross domestic product ), tell us - for example, in 2021 - it is true that they are still provisional data - how much did the INE ( National Institute of Statistics) register the weight of the salary in GDP. It was 48, 8 %! So, are we comparing this objective to what year? And are we also seeking to accomplish this objective in what is the direct responsibility of Mr. Prime Minister in the business sector of the State, where effectively state companies act like others, such as the General Deposit Box and many others? By the way, Madam Minister, can you also answer us if you are aware of the delays in your Ministry, with regard to requests for support that are coming? It's because the waiting lists, before, were only known in the Ministry of Health. In your Ministry, now, waiting lists are the day-to-day.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u36	Does the Minister not know that there is an increase in poverty that is out of official numbers? This is the country that Mrs. Minister didn't speak there. This news here is... The speaker posted a newspaper. ...is about what, in fact, the Minister does not know. I wanted to ask you about the food cassettes, about the people who are outside the support of the food cassettes, because there are reports of employees saying that they cannot register the families they need. These families, Mrs. Minister, are here in the news, these families are in the Real Country. Does the Minister know, for example, how many children are going to stay out of free day care? As for the general free of charge of day care centers, which was announced here, does the Minister know how many children are going to be out of here? Does the Minister know what coverage rate exists? For example, it is 48 % in the country, 35 % or 36 % in the port, 45 % in Lisbon, 45 % in Setúbal. How much is that fee going to increase? By the way, Mrs. Minister, are you going to do what, perhaps, is your usual ideological complex and put out completely the children who are in private? Are the children in private special? Are they especially rich? Will they also be entitled to this access or not? Mrs. Minister, tell us how many children are left out. Instead of saying how many do you want to include in that round value of 40,000 and such children, say how many children are left out. If the Minister is able to respond to all of this, we will be able to see that she is perhaps a little closer to reality in a country. If the Minister cannot answer, we will realize that you have a chronic problem: you do not know what to do with the absolute majority. But there is one thing we can understand: the PS, when it reaches the election campaign, promises the sky; when it reaches the government, what we find is even hell. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u37	For a request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, this debate has so far revealed some typical things about the PS. One of these is the following: In April, the Minister of Finance, Fernando Medina, who, in the face of several insistences, said : « No, inflation is temporary, transitional, we will only enter 3, 7 % in the Budget ». A number of Members said here: « but it is already 7 % in April». Inflation was already 7 % and since then it has not been shown to have fallen. We are close to 9 %, but we have not heard a word from the Minister of Finance on this subject. Yesterday, however, we heard here from the Prime Minister — and from the PS bench we have already heard here today — the the thesis that will bring all this down: that inflation is imported, that it is not the government's fault. Inflation is imported! [[PS protests.]] All right! I'll give you the bike! But answer me now: were the low interest we had for six years not imported either? Oh, my God! Neither have they been the result of the ECB's policy ( the European Central Bank )?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u39	All right! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u40	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tell me, then! Either you have "the sun in the air" or you have "the rain in the napal". [[Applause from the IL.]] This is typical of the PS : it is the merit of others and shakes the responsibilities of themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u41	That's right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u42	But there comes another typical second thing of the PS: however, the Portuguese are the ones paying the inflation bill. You don't like the word, but what's called a situation where income is actually getting worse and worse? It's called "austerity" and the Portuguese are living worse and worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u43	That's right! Austerity! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u44	And at the same time as the Portuguese live worse, inflation is becoming a real mana for tax revenues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u45	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u46	We are looking at the report on the May budget implementation of the DGO (Directorate-General for Budget) and we already see that this year's tax revenue of 2022 will be only EUR 6500 million — I repeat, EUR 6500 million! — higher than last year. And if you don't want to compare with a year that may have been atypical,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u47	At the expense of the people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u48	...will be more than 3,000 and such million euros higher than those entered in the Budget. In view of this, Mr. Prime Minister came here yesterday and boasts that he will return 1600 million of this money to the people. It's half! It'll be less than half. There's the PS — typical too! — : take one hand and take both. [[Applause from the IL.]] And as for these support that you are giving, in about 20 measures, you will see what they are — semi-twined, all of them very complicated — and they will have the same fate as the AUTOVoucher, when they come to an end and, without any balance, are sent to the trash can of history. Only one third — perhaps less than one third — is that it corresponds to the loss of tax revenue from the State, the rest are support and subsidies. In other words, the PS government thinks it is good to charge the taxes first and then do the favor of returning the money to the same people and companies who need support and to whom it has just removed. [[Less!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u49	Instead of staying in the people's purse and in the company's safe, the government first charges the tax and then makes the shine of, paternalistically, coming to help the people who have just harmed. Therefore, it is typical of the PS to make charity with the money of others, in this case, sometimes charity with the money of the people themselves who are supporting. The same government that is inflamed, protesting, that is outraged by the extraordinary profits of energy companies has no stake in taking advantage of the extraordinary revenues that inflation is forcing the Portuguese to pay. And there are skills that the PS propaganda machine...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u50	Propaganda machine, you need to have tin!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u51	...will not be able to explain. You will not be able to explain how it is that in the year 2022, with enormous difficulties for the Portuguese, there is no tax charge and we are going again — it is guaranteed! — to beat the tax burden record. Nobody's gonna get this: in a year like this, we're gonna hit the tax record again. [[It's just fattening!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u52	And there is another skill that the PS propaganda machine will not be able to disguise: this is actually another example of how you like to shine with the money of others. This is typical of PS; this is unfortunately typical of PS. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u53	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond, in an aggregate way, to all of you. Members, on the various concerns and issues they have raised. Of course, with regard to the concern about the situation we are living in — and it is clear to everyone that the demand for and the difficulty of the moment we live in — and the need for more and more of us to achieve, in fact, the compatibility of urgent responses and structural responses, I would say that this is what we are doing, seeking to mobilize resources in the form of an emergency, but also to intervene from the structural point of view in the weaknesses that need structural responses. On the question of wages, moreover, transmitted differently by the various parliamentary groups and with certainly different concerns, our concern, and what remains our commitment is the valuation of wages and the increase in the weight of wages in GDP, ensuring a better distribution of national wealth. If we look at 2015, the weight of wages in GDP was 43, 6 %. We have already achieved some recovery from this value, but the truth is that we need to achieve convergence with the European average.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u55	But in the last two years it hasn't been like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u56	therefore the objective that we have established for this legislature and that we have launched, in terms of discussion of the income and competitiveness agreement in social consultation, the recovery of 3 percentage points in the weight of wages in GDP, precisely with this great concern of the value of wages through this collective commitment, either by increasing the minimum wage — which, as you know, is fixed by the government after the social partners are heard — namely, by dynamizing collective bargaining, which is a key instrument for this to happen. For this reason, in the context of the Dignified Work Agenda, which we will discuss tomorrow, we have begun to devote positive discrimination measures to companies that use dynamic collective bargaining, exactly also with this objective. Of course, our concern has been clearly the focus of restoring the purchasing capacity of those with the national minimum wage, as you all know. Everyone remembers — or we have already forgotten — what happened until 2015, in which the minimum wage was frozen, and the effect that this had on the weight of wages in GDP. The truth is that, so far, we have an increase in the minimum wage and we continue with our objective of significant valuation of the minimum wage and average wages in Portugal, with the aim of reaching, at the end of the legislature,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u57	And how does that reflect now? Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u58	... at least €900 at minimum wage level and an increase in average wages in order to increase the weight of wages in GDP by 3 percentage points, which means an increase of at least 20 % of average wages. We have also sought, while responding to the emergency and structural response, to extend the number of families and aggregates exempt from IRS, precisely by extending also the minimum of existence to ensure greater responsiveness and liquidity for these aggregates. With regard to the questions raised to me about the concern about the development of poverty indicators in Portugal, I recall that between 2015 and 2020 they have emerged from the risk of poverty or the exclusion of 700 000 people. This is clearly the result of a great mobilization of resources and a commitment to the effectiveness of social benefits, in particular, as I said recently, with more than EUR 5000 million devoted to social benefits to removing people from the situation of poverty or exclusion. Therefore, there is evidence here of the rate of risk of poverty or exclusion which significantly decreases after social transfers and pensions—in fact, with the increase of about 20 % of the lowest minimum pensions since 2015, also the result of extraordinary increases that have been consecrated. On the other hand, with regard to the national strategy to combat poverty, I would remind you precisely that we are only now able to implement some of the measures because the State budget has been rejected and only entered into force last week, which in particular allows the creation of the child guarantee for the first time to remove 123 000 children from the risk of poverty or exclusion, and also the measure of free daycare. By the measure that started about two years ago, some 51,000 children were already covered according to 1. the e of the 2. the steps of the family aggregate, and our goal is, until the end of the implementation of the free program of the day care centers, to cover, through the social network that replaces the public network for this purpose, about 100 000 children. I think, of course, there will be a second round of questions and I will have the opportunity to answer more questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u59	We then move on to the second block of requests for clarification. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as already mentioned, inflation is having a galloping escalation and a very direct impact on families. If we look at the impact it is having on the food tank, it has already increased by 4, 51 %, i.e. by 8, 80 €, essential food products. With regard to the impact of energy products, such as electricity, we have already had a 31 % increase and this has been the highest price since 1984. The escalation of Euribor may still mean an increase of 100 € / year in the payment of the income resulting from loans and the rent income may have an increase of 4 % soon. Now, all of this lacks concrete answers. Madam Minister, we have heard you speak in the fight against child poverty, which we have followed, but to combat child poverty is to combat the poverty of family members, that is, the parents of children. in this sense, there are some measures that remain outside. We will soon debate and vote on a NAP initiative for the creation of the Exit programme, with a permit for support for women who want to leave prostitution, and the PS Parliamentary Group has already announced that it will vote against, when 86% of women who are in prostitution want to leave this poverty situation and do not have any form of support from the State. I ask you: what measures are you going to have in order to answer, for example, this problem? As well as with regard to electricity and gas, with high levels of energy poverty, measures have, in fact, recently known. We continue to have families that live below the poverty threshold and aggregates that do not have access to the social energy tariff, in particular beneficiaries of the old-age social pension or family allowance that do not have access to this rate. The NAP has already alerted several times to this problem and to the need to extend the social energy tariff. So I ask you: when will the government extend social tariffs to respond to the sharp increase in prices? At the level of inflation, the Government has waved the food cabaz, which was planned—and well—in the State budget, but this measure will only reach 916 000 people, when we have more than 1 million and 800 thousand people in poverty, so we are leaving nearly 1 million people outside this protection measure, Mrs Minister. So I ask you: how much inflation will have to continue to rise so that these families are supported? As for the loss of income, at this point I would like to focus on the situation of workers in the civil service. There is a government proposal that knows little about it. It is necessary to attract graduates, even to combat the ageing of the Public Administration, and 95% of public service workers continue to lose purchasing power and to get out of pay increases. Finally — in this case, a question that is transversal not only to your Ministry, but above all to other government areas — let us talk about the energy crisis. The Government has taken measures which have once again taken to relieve the tax burden on large gas stations, on large oil interests, and, although the Minister of the Environment and Climate Action has promised that he would carry it — which should already be approved for more than nine months — to set the maximum limits on the marketing of fuels, would be approved, so far we have not seen any portfolio, so I ask: for when effective measures to relieve the stock of families, the Portuguese stock market?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u61	To request clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, there are today thousands of workers on the street, heading here to Parliament and saying several things fair and obvious: there is no dignity of work with exploitation and abuse of precariousness; there is no dignity of work with low wages, which do not rise when everything goes up — prices in the supermarket, household income, fuel, energy, everything! Mr Minister, inflation is faced in many ways, but there is no socially fair or left-wing response to the problem of inflation without attacking speculation, limiting profit margins, and without protecting wages, increasing them in line with inflation. The Government has rejected these two measures and not even with the tax on extraordinary profits of large companies advanced. Mrs. Minister, there are many afflicted people and the government has to offer the most afflicted people a humiliation and temporary support of 60 € per family — per family! — not enough, which does not compensate for the effect of inflation and which does not even cover all workers. In fact, it is a support that people never know whether it will be extended for the next month or how long they will be without support — they are always in this uncertainty, in this distress, in the humiliation of the unpredictability of support. This is not an answer to the problem we are living in. Last year, the largest companies in the PSI-20 (Portuguese Stock Index) distributed 2, 5 billion euros to shareholders and increased their board of directors by 47%.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u63	This is bad for everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u64	Wage stagnation and the blocking of collective bargaining occur at the same time as inequalities increase and the salaries of management councils increase. Jerome Martins, where Pingo Doce is included, had more than 30 % profits — 30 % profits! Did you reflect on the wages of workers? No, he didn't. We know you don't. [[CH protests.]] The combination of inflation and the passivity and inaction of the government in these dimensions has as a consequence the poorest families that are suffering from the impact and effect of inflation, means a policy of impoverishment and wage contraction and has the effect of increasing inequality between capital and labour. The Minister here said that the government wanted to increase the weight of wages in GDP by 3 %, but the calculations for this year are made. If wages increase 0, 9 %, which was the value defined by the Government for Public Administration, with the inflation to be increased on average 4 %— and we will see if it is no longer — and with the productivity to be increased 3, 5 %, will decrease the weight of wages in GDP this year by 6, 6 %. Calculations are not from the Left Block. So, Minister, what is happening is not just a impoverishment, it is the increase in inequality, the imbalance in the distribution of income between capital and work. The Minister came to this debate with two announcements: she will make a committee to study the sustainability of social security and create a provider of social security. Frankly, Minister, is this what the government has to say about what we are discussing here today, what is the cost of living, the increase in prices, wages that are not enough to pay what people need? This year's productivity will increase by 3 % — government calculations — but not wages. Income will rise 5 %, but wages will not. The profit margins of large companies are already increasing, but wages are not. And the government has set the worst example in the Public Administration, which works, in fact, as a reference to the private sector itself, in addition to increasing the imbalance in the distribution of income that is produced in the country between capital and labor. What is this, Mrs. Minister, but a policy of conformity? The Minister here speaks of action, « let us all», « commitment», always very motivated. This is conformism! It's resignation! It is passive in relation to the effects of inequality and inflation. It is a policy of desistence and it is a policy of complacency with this inequality and with the ongoing process. And the process now under way is a process of devaluation of work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u65	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question we would like to ask is whether the government knows what it is like to be young in this country today and whether it is indifferent to it. Is it indifferent to the feeling of uncertainty about the future — the near future, tomorrow, the next month — that affects young people? At each stage of life, instead of having an opportunity, there is a barrier. After the young people pay the rent of a room—because a house to be alone is a luxury—they stay with 200 € to live. Do you know what it is to look at the autonomy of life as a mirage, as a luxury? It's to see reduced life to routine home-work, home-work, because there's no time or money for more. It is to suffer for staying at home and it is to grieve over the parents. Knowing this also knows the effect it has on young people, all the consequences that it will have, not only in the immediate future, but in the long term. It tells us about social security, but it is not with low wages or lack of birth which defends social security. It is not 60 € family support that will encourage young people to have children. It speaks to us of decent work, but it does not do the basic, which is to make an effective link to a permanent job, to end all resources to temporary work, to green receipts, to outsourcing and to all forms of precariousness that are permitted and stimulated in this country, starting with the Public Administration. It keeps the 180-day experimental period for workers looking for the first job — six months and leaves with one hand forward and another. It maintains the total deregulation of working hours — it is the hour banks, night work, shift work. It maintains an Act (Working Conditions Authority) which does nothing against workers' rights and with which young people know they cannot count. It keeps poor wages, running around the 700 €. Mrs. Minister, the government and the PS are watching this all knowing that they have ways of reacting, that they have options to do. They don't do it because they don't want it. They do not stimulate production, wealth creation and jobs. They don't end the precaution. They don't regulate prices, starting with income. Mrs. Minister, I hope you won't regret it in your consciousness another lost and postponed generation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u67	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the questions you have put and all the comments you have made. I will somehow try to recall my initial presentation here. What I did initially was explain what has been the intensity of the last years of structural response and emergency response. Mr President, I understand that it must be sound-bite for television, but everything you cannot call me is conformist or resigned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u69	In the face of inflation, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u70	I believe that this is precisely an action government and that it has been permanently alongside the Portuguese, along with the families, with the workers. We have given unprecedented, different answers — certainly unexplainable — to some of the banks, with the mobilization of public resources up to, to support companies to keep jobs, often artificially. We thus ensured that we were able to cross the difficult tunnel we lived together, but I think there were obvious effects for all of us. What we have done is to work, from a global point of view, on emergency responses and structural responses. As it is evident, in very difficult times, in very demanding times, it has not been easy in my life to reconcile personal and family life as you imagine. A little while ago, when they asked if it was easy to have leisure time, they did not exist in our lives to be at the service and mission of the Portuguese. So we have always been, with emergency measures: with cross-cutting measures to try to contain the impact of the increase in the final price in relation to electricity and fuel, but also with specific measures, more targeted to the most affected companies. in the latter, we are concerned about the maintenance of jobs, ensuring the obligation on the part of companies that have support to maintain these jobs. That has always been our priority. We also seek to ensure that social security fulfils its increasingly important role and, I would say, increasingly recognized, from the point of view of social response. That is what I spoke about here when I said that in the 2022 budget we have an additional EUR 5000 million in the social security budget devoted to social benefits. This great concern focuses on the most vulnerable and those with fewer incomes, particularly pensioners with lower pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u71	There's getting poorer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u72	As I mentioned earlier, these people will have an extraordinary increase, paid tomorrow, in relation to retroactives since January. It can only be paid tomorrow because the State budget has been postponed and plummeted. There is also a great concern about something they have just mentioned, about the speedy response from social security, and more and more we have given an answer. If we look beyond the soundbits of newspaper titles, we realize that, particularly at such difficult times as those of 2020 and 2021, in which social security was called to reach millions of people, it has even decreased the number of claims made on the basis of benefits. Just for the ladies. Members have a notion that the number of claims submitted to the Provedoria in relation to social security represents 0,004 % of social security benefits. It means that 99, 996 % of benefits were paid on time to people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having said this, our great concern — and I think it must be our great focus, that is why we are here — is to ensure that we make the structural investments that make the difference. That is why my concern was to bring the « step forward » here, investing structurally in what needs structural investment. This is what we are doing with the investment in the Click—Digital Social Security Transformation Programme, being a major revolution in social security, because it is increasingly critical from the point of view of strengthening the social state. It showed that it worked when everything else failed from the market point of view, which, of course, in the face of a pandemic could not respond. I think this is the best common asset that binds us, which leads us to the fact that, together, we can always be moving forward and not just come here reading from the past. That is what I have tried to do: a reading about the intensity of what we have done, but above all what we have to do with this collective commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u73	We are now entering the stage of the debate. Mr Miguel Cabrita of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that the CFP brings here has not started now and is not on the agenda today. It started over six years ago and has always been on the agenda, since the PS government has put people's incomes as a priority, not just as a response to each situation, but as a structural and long-term priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is why neither the Government nor the PS are today empty in this debate—as opposed to the right, which has always fought against the increase in incomes of people and families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is because we have given priority to the incomes that the Country of 2022 is not the Country of 2015, as the Portuguese recognize.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u75	What about 2011?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u76	We were able to ensure the essential focus in each setting: to have a path of increased income without compromising the future. This was the case in 2015, in a frame of uncertainty about whether it would be possible to break with austerity, maintaining stability, trust and credibility, both internal and external. And so far, with clear commitments, it has been possible to achieve one by one: employment, employment, employment; multi-annual increase in minimum wage; return of income; end of overtax; increase in the progressiveity of IRS. So many examples. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Increase in pensions, social electricity tariff, increase in family allowance, school textbooks, reduction in public transport tariffs, and many other examples. No, the country of 2022 is not the same country. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] We corrected the option for structural impoverishment that the right had imposed on us and we made a path of progress with balance and sustainability. And today we have to ensure that we do not hypothesize the achievements that we have been achieving over these years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a path from which we have not deviated in response to the pandemic crisis and from which we will not deviate now, in response to the crisis caused by the invasion of Ukraine. In response to the pandemic, we supported companies and jobs, we did not stop increasing the national minimum wage, we did not stop increasing pensions. And we always do so with correct accounts, with credibility, and that is why we have results today. The minimum wage increased by 40 %, nominal, and by 30 %, real, and this year had the greatest ever increase in nominal terms. Since 2015, the average wage has risen by 20 % nominally and by more than 15 % real — INE data — even with a pandemic in the middle. The pensions, instead of the cuts that the right had planned, have always gone up. Now, as soon as possible, after the political crisis, will be done retroactively to January of the extraordinary increase for low-income pensioners. It is EUR 100 million that now reaches pensioners, when they are so necessary. In the IRS, there has been a global relief of more than EUR 1300 million since 2015 for families. Again, this year, with the increase in the level of existence and the strengthening of progressiveity, new steps of IRS were created. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over these years, we have improved people's lives and purchasing power. And we have already demonstrated, in the past and in the present, the ability to react. The Government has implemented measures to mitigate the impact of the war and, in addition to containing the increase in prices, it has also introduced support for families — as mentioned above — support for the increase in the food tank, with almost EUR 130 million for the most vulnerable. This has been the policy and this will be the policy that we will maintain without ignoring reality, the reality of inflation, but also the reality of the international uncertainty of war in Europe and the rise of interest rates, for which we must be prepared.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u78	Therefore, more than ever, we need balance and sustainability, to take action without compromising the future. We would all suffer, but they would suffer more than they need: the workers and the middle classes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u79	Mr Cabrita's speech has raised a request for clarification, which will be made by Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD, to whom I give the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u80	Mr. President, I'll say good-bye to you again. Mr President, I have heard you very carefully and the first question is, in fact, the following: what reforms have you made?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u81	It's not your reforms!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u82	What reforms have they made in the licensing, justice, the tax system? I'll inform you: zero, none! Now, it was important to realize the following: when you talk about the increase in the average wage, are you referring to the same numbers as Mr. Prime Minister mentioned earlier in the recent election campaign? I will read, which is easier: « António Costa says average salary has increased by 25% since 2015. “ Are you confirmed? Fact-check : false! Mr President, we need to strengthen the Polygraph team, of course, because you are actually giving a lot of raw material to lie about. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u83	Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, I ask them one more question which is relatively simple. Do you think there is anyone in this country — at the cost of housing, with the rise of the food cabaz — who can truly not lose purchasing power? Mr President, do you think that the increases you have seen in the State budget have not lost purchasing power? What about pensions? Mr President, do you think that the Prime Minister’s objective — since the Minister did not respond — is it to increase average wages by 20 % in the coming years already being done in the state business sector? Let's get this straight. If you don't, you know what's gonna happen? It will appear in the Polygraph and only one word will appear: « false». In fact, Mr President, what we know for you is that they make many promises, but then, when they arrive at the government, they do not do anything at all. You are not doing it, and you will help me clarify it right away. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u84	To reply, Mr. Miguel Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u85	Mr President, Mr Nuno Carvalho, thank you very much for your comments. I did not exactly detect questions to my intervention, but yet I must say something that is clear to all Portuguese: separates us a world, as has always separated PS from PSD, into income policy. The PSD has now come to this debate and everyone remembers the response it gave to the previous financial crisis. I remember from this answer: it was that the Portuguese were guilty and lived above the possibilities, which resulted in cuts in wages, cuts in pensions, increases in taxes and the young people to be invited, or forced, to leave the country— «until it was better for them», Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I remember a PSD leader, who had Dr. Luís Montenegro, now President of PSD, tell the Portuguese not to be bent. But it was not only at that time that they gave that answer, that they continued to give it. In fact, the response they gave to the previous crisis—and it seems to be similar to the one they now want to implement—is the famous Social Emergency Programme. At the previous crisis, the only response from the PSD was to create social canteens, ordering people to look for food in the canteens instead of taking measures to increase wages, increase income and support to the most vulnerable. This is the world that separates us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And after 2015, you were always against the increase in the minimum wage. In this House of the Republic, they have come to vote against support for companies which had to increase the minimum wage by government determination.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u86	next to the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u87	Again recently, the priority of the PSD, in its electoral programme, was the decline of IRC (tax on the income of the public), and the IRS is soon seen. I am therefore sorry, Mr, but you have been late for this debate. They want to put themselves in the picture, but in this debate they look like that frame: they look very bad in the photograph. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u88	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, let me record the fact that a delegation of Mozambican students studying in higher education institutions in Portugal is attending our work, in the presence of the President of the Chamber of Commerce Portugal Mozambique. [[General applause.]] You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP allocated this request to the Government following its Parliamentary Days, the conclusions of which form the basis for this parliamentary initiative. The focus points to the improvement of living conditions, controlling and fixing the essential food cabaz, increasing pensions and wages, valuing work and fighting against exploitation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PCP, in this interpellation, as in others, remains stubbornly attached to the doctrine of old communist orthodoxy, based on the class struggle between the great oppressive capital and the exploited workers, involved in a pretensely typical moral superiority of the left forces, especially the most radical left. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u90	The CFP, despite the evidence of the failure of the planned economy in the USSR ( Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ), continues to defend a statized economy, an omnipresent state and owner of the means of production.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u91	It's the Avante!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u92	At the limit, there is only one good product or service if it is provided by public entities. Only in this ideological conformity can we understand the repeated option of the CFP for the fixing of the price of essential goods or for the nationalization of strategic sectors, which vary according to the environment and its circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u93	You don't even know what he's saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u94	Mr. Deputies has read only one page from the Avante! I didn't read the others. That's why you didn't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u95	Being the history « daughter of her time» and the experience « mother of all things», and although there is some agreement in some of the generic measures, we are deeply divided by the principles and means proposed by the PCP, already tested in the east, whose results we came to know in 1990, thanks to the perestroika, which I remember, to stir up memory, with news of the time. The newspapers of the time said that the consumer goods market was in deficit and that there were no options and all kinds of products. The prices in the state store were low, but there were no products. The alternative to the rows was in the black market or in the Beriozka, official stores, where everything was bought since they had foreign currencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u96	But have you replaced Mr. Jorge Salgueiro Mendes with José Milhazes?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u97	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, during the budget debate in November 2021, the PSD Parliamentary Group questioned the Government on the real economy, in particular on the difficulties experienced by families, companies and institutions of social solidarity. Despite the Socialist Party's bench to paint the pink country — so much pink! — already at the time they were unable to hide the Real Country, where, throughout 2021, I repeat, over 2021, the fuels increased 54 times, each week, with a differential of 0, 40 € / l, which is exactly what is happening today in front of our neighbouring Spain, and both governments are socialist. [[PSD applause.]] Electrical energy and natural gas reached record values, with critical perspectives for the winter months, as it happened. Industry, from paper to textiles, threatened to close, as a result of increased energy and transport costs, as happened with Layoff. As the supply chain crisis worsened — chips, wood, materials in general — costs increased by more than 50 %, in addition to supply delays. What about today? What is the increase in costs for these industries? More than 100 percent! Inflationary prospects had already put central banks, investors and states on the alert, calling into question—they were already talking about the implementation of the PRR and the Budget itself, which was at the time the intention of the Socialist Party to be approved by 2022. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have just mentioned, which is last November's speech on the Portuguese economic reality, leads me today to question, even more vehemently, whether the Government of the Socialist Party still takes place for the economy and for a minister of the economy with the capacity to intervene. We have found that the Socialist Party's indelible brand is maintained: finance more, economy less. [[PSD applause.]] After eight months, the panorama is darker and even the war in Ukraine can not hide socialist governance, despite the millions of PRRs, so many times proclaimed. The Government of António Costa is 100 days old, but it is the same government in the attitudes and policies that the two previous governments, when associated with the PCP and the Left Block. In the face of the difficulties and problems, the PS government rule goes through squambling its existence, passing blame on the previous government or trying to convince Portuguese that its prophecy of reality is true, the reality of the PS. When the problem is serious, they are embroiled in their labyrinth and the great decision is to create committees and working groups, from which palliative measures come, late and late, in the expectation that the problem will pass. Today, we learned that we are going to have another commission in the Ministry of Labour. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the last weekend in Porto, the Congress of the Social Democratic Party, a unique moment of consecration of the new leadership of the PSD with Dr. Luís Montenegro, but also of exaltation of humanist, personalist and social-democratic ideals, the genesis of the values in which the PSD is founded. Given the economic and social situation that the country is going through, together with emphasizing the necessary convergence with Europe, it is urgent to implement measures that respond to the anxieties and difficulties of families, businesses and institutions, in particular the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), as Luís Montenegro put forward in its closing speech. I would like to highlight the first three priorities, because they are related to the subject of this question. The first priority is the implementation of a social emergency programme that takes advantage of the surplus created by the impact of inflation on tax collection and includes measures such as strengthening the monthly food voucher to families with lower incomes. I am also referring to the renewal of reductions or suspensions in fuel taxation, with an intervention in taxation and contributions associated with electricity consumption. In addition, support for agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors will be strengthened in particular. This is a real programme, such as other countries in the European Union. Families start to despair, because money doesn't give for everything or, worse, it doesn't give for the essentials. The second priority is a major political cause: the fight against chaos and de-government in health, which continues. The third priority is the defence of a society with fewer taxes, as a contribution to solid, robust and fair economic growth of wealth. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have arrived here, and after some discussions with the PS / Government, this government cannot continue to sell illusions to the Portuguese nor are they passively waiting for the problems to be solved by itself, as has happened in these 100 days of the Socialist Party government. Yesterday, Prime Minister António Costa said that high inflation came to stay, contrary to what he had said a little more than a month ago in this plenary, when he rejected the PSD proposal to update wages and pensions in line with the inflation expected by the government of the height, less than 4 %. right now, what value are we at? Today, we learned a little more about the governance of the Socialist Party. Today, we learned that Portugal is the country of the European Union where double employment has increased by 2020 — plus 23 % — and that it is the country where the tax burden has gone up on the lowest wages. [[What a surprise!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u98	This is a sad portrait of the 100 days of PS government, when Portugal needs clear leadership, state organization and a reformist spirit. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u99	Mr President, your statement has prompted a request for clarification, which will be made on behalf of the Socialist Party by Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u100	Mr President, Mr Salgueiro Mendes, you said that the problem of inflation is serious — we agree, it is serious — but, after listening to your statement, I must say that I feel a lot more serious about the state in which the PSD is located and how it has behaved on this subject. [[PS Members' laughs.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I must say that after listening to the honourable Member and after listening to the CFP, I think there is a 1986 Brazilian Crusade Plan that joins the CFP and the PSD. It is that the PCP defends price fixing, thus emptying supermarket shelves, and the PSD has just said that it wants an indexation of wages to inflation, so we know what happens. It spoke in 4 %, but when inflation is 10 %, it also indexes 10 % and, when it is 20 %, indexes 20 %, and so on.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u101	It is appropriate to ask where you were in 1986!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u102	Do you know what that means? Let us see what happened in economic history in Brazil, in the first Crusade Plan, in the second Crusado Plan and in the third Crusado Plan, and then tell us, and tell the people of Portugal, that this is the PSD solution to solve the problem of inflation in Portugal. So I ask you what the PSD wants to do to solve the problem of inflation, because, with regard to the size of the support and the effort that the country has made in relation to the fight against inflation, I think that this is the speech, is the debate that we have to have here. I saw the Liberal Initiative try to do the debate, but this time it did not bring concrete data, it did not bring literature, probably because it did not find it. [[I brought it, I brought it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u103	I did a little deeper research to try to find some literature I could deliver to Mr. Deputies, and I found a study of a European think tank, Bruegel, which made a great effort to evaluate national economic policies to combat inflation. And get in the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members: after the analysis that Bruegel has made on all these measures, Portugal is in fifth place from the European countries, from the point of view of the effort it has made to defend consumers and businesses. Fifth place! [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the loss of revenue, we are talking about support in the order of EUR 4 billion and, if we do an analysis by the end of the year, we are talking about a greater effort than the loss of revenue that Mr has just mentioned. This is in accordance with this European think tank, which is, of course, credible and which has seriously studied this matter. So it seems clear to me that the country and the government are very concerned about the problem of inflation, and it seems clear to me that we all know that this is a very complex issue. Like the ladies. Members know, measures and policies are very complex from the point of view of combating inflation, and the country is doing what it can do. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, it was not the country that said inflation was transient, it was not Portugal that said so. The European Central Bank has said - and the European institutions have said - and of course we have been following this matter, which I think is very important. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the Liberal Initiative well know that expectations on this matter have a very important role and this government is responsible for how to manage these expectations. You have already not been responsible, because they contribute to the increase in inflation and not to the control of inflation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u104	To reply, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u105	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I am grateful for the intervention and the question you have raised. I'll answer for the other seats if you'll allow me. Mr. Carlos Pereira is worried about the PSD and I am concerned about the Portuguese,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u106	... for a very simple reason: if everything continues at the end of the year, the Portuguese will lose 10 % of their income, i.e., they will lose in the salary. This is called austerity. You are objectively cutting the wages to the Portuguese! [[PSD applause.]] In the past, there was someone who was forced to take unfriendly measures of austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u107	And that is why they went beyond measures! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u108	But this is your choice, there is no imposition of the European Union, there is no imposition of the markets. It is your option to cut 10% of Portuguese income if everything remains the same. Secondly, Mr President — and I was here making a doll, as we learn in the Faculty of Economics — when there is a containment of the supply, as is the case, with increased costs, there is usually an increase in prices. If nothing is done, we have recession, we have austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u109	But we don't live isolated from the world!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u110	Generally, it is very simple: or there is, on the part of the State, subsidies to production to lower production costs and make the offer back to previous levels or, then, there are incentives to seek. Now, there is no problem with the stimuli being sought at this time. That is why inflation does not happen, because we are already going into recession and it is good that some demand should be stimulated. There is nothing to tell us that a demand stimulus will increase inflation. [[PS protests.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going into recession. Let's wait a few more months! Open... Then, to finish this leaflet on whether it is with the PCP, if it is with the Arrival, if it is with the Liberal Initiative, I was here reminding me of a Brazilian writer, Jorge Amado — by chance, he was a communist, as everyone remembers — who wrote a novel called Woman Flor and His Two Husbands. But in this Parliament, at the previous legislative session, we had Mrs Rosa and her two husbands: the PCP and the Left Block. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u111	This candomblé lasted six years and, as in all good romance, when they get angry, they get separated and now they come to cry about the living conditions of the people. Therefore, when the PCP, the Left Block and the PS exchange these stamps, I must say that, really, you have been convivient in these six years of bad governance that was practiced in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u112	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea, Mr. Antonio Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here at the centre of Portuguese democracy and, on the part of the Government, with all humility, we have heard what the different Members propose about the complex situation that the country is going through. When there are complex situations, the worst thing we can do is simplify things. As U.S. journalist Mencken said, «for any complex problem, there is a simple, effective and wrong solution». So when I hear these debates, I try to register and learn from the proposals of the honourable Members. Members—and there are many positive issues—but we must not forget that the world changed on 24 February 2022. We are in a new geopolitical era, we are in a new monetary era, and the consequences for Europe and the world are very significant. So the worst thing we can do is take a simple problem, expose it and say: "Here is the solution! » There are no miraculous solutions! The government is sensitive to all the problems we are discussing, which have to do with wages, pensions, with the difficult standard of living of many Portuguese people. Our Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, which is extremely combative, has already explained here that for aid to the food tank of the most disadvantaged families 128 million euros have already been planned. They will say: "It is little! » That is what we were able to do. We can do more and are always open to do more, but that value is significant. The issue of protecting the most vulnerable in the most complex crises is crucial. The second aspect that we cannot ignore and which is before all of us is the question of the economy. The Portuguese economy, contrary to what many say, has an endogenous dynamic that is resilient. What happened in the first quarter of this year? The same growth in Portuguese GDP was 11, 9 %, the largest in the European Union, one of the largest in the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). We cannot sign in arc, because it is the comparison with what happened in 2021 — and therefore there is a basic effect, because the economy has grown very little in 2021 — but it is not surprising that there are two levers that have contributed to this growth: domestic demand and net external demand, in particular services and tourism. That sector that is often criticized in the national economy, the tourism sector, this year will hit the 2019 record. In 2019, the net revenue generated was 18, 4 million euros and, as I said a few months ago, is a sector that works as a lever for the country's growth. They will say: "It is not enough! Do not keep on seeking. ” Of course it is not — and we are working to have other levers — but it is very important that we also discuss the conditions for creating wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u115	It is not only to distribute what exists, it is also to create more conditions for the country to be able to produce wealth and thus leverage its path to the future. What happens to that perspective? It's amazing! Between January and April, at the level of our exports, we have a significant increase of 18 %. There are many exporting companies that have their shipping portfolios completely full. We have confidence rates in several sectors, from trade and retail to manufacturing industries, which are significant. In March of this year, we reached the record of the entire history of exports in the metal mechanics industry. Despite the difficulties, despite all that is happening, I think it is extremely important that we pay attention to the situation of the economy. Of course it's not all right, there are many things we can improve and that's why we're working on it. What the country can look for in the next decade, especially with this admirable combination of the funds of the PRR and PT2030 that will come and that must be used well in productive investments, is changing the evolutionary profile of the Portuguese economy. We have the approval of the 51 mobilising agendas of the PRR — and the contracts negotiations will take place in the coming days — which are betting on key sectors of the Portuguese economy, not only in the conventional sectors that are being digitized, such as those of the metal and metal industry, molds, textiles, clothing and other sectors that are creating value and wealth, but also in the sectors that will be the economy of the future. I speak of the software, electronic and microelectronic industries, the marine economy, where we will make a significant bet through mobilization agendas, and a whole set of sectors that can create other engines for the development of the Portuguese economy. That is what we are doing, that is why we are working and, in this context, it is extremely important not to ignore that, because of the investment that began many years ago in innovation, science, technology, with Prof. Mariano Gago — having made an admirable path — if we look at the period between 2011 and now, Portugal is from the countries of the world in which most patents have been registered. The patent registration last year grew 13 %, the country has at this time 2200 startups, being one of the epicenters of European startups—of the 10 unicorns we have in southern Europe, seven are located in Portugal. So, despite the difficulties, despite everything that happens, I think these are signs of hope. We will continue to fight, in conjunction with the companies, with all our productive fabric, because it is the companies that are the drivers of the country's economic development, that can transform the productive profile and it is up to us to create the conditions for this transformation to take place. On the day that the country can create more wealth and have diversified economic development models and engines, we will probably walk differently for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u116	Mr. Minister has seven requests for clarification. To formulate the first request for clarification, I give the floor to Mr João Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u117	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea, he said right now that the Government is sensitive to increasing the cost of living. Yeah, it doesn't look like it. It doesn't seem because it doesn't take on your responsibilities. When the Portuguese population is faced with an extraordinary increase in the cost of living, with a spiral of rising prices, including those of the essential goods, where food goods stand out, the Government does not assume its responsibilities. contrary to what you have said, this is a problem that is not from now on nor from February to this day. I've come from behind and it's only gotten worse. As the CFP has said, Mr Minister, we can answer this problem through two ways: on the one hand, the increase in the income of the Portuguese population; on the other hand, the need to control and fix prices. It is not how the large distribution, which increases prices to its bel-prazer, is to set prices based on the real cost of producing these food goods. It's completely different, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u119	On this point, I have to tell you, Mrs Labour Minister, that you have a job whose wages are not enough to pay for the food you need is not work, it is exploitation, it is slavery. in this sense, Mrs Minister, we need to strengthen the response in wages and pensions. [[PCP applause.]] There is an advantage on the large areas, particularly the large distribution, in relation to the increase in food prices. Just to give you an example, Minister, a food cabaz that in January cost 180 €, today costs 205 €. It's plus 25 € in the same essential goods! Mr Minister, the question that the CFP is asking you is whether the Government will continue to run away from its responsibilities, continue to refuse the response and the measures necessary to combat this increase and uncontrollable prices, or whether it will respond to the difficulties faced by the Portuguese, in particular by responding to the impoverishment to which they are subject by low wages and to the exploitation to which they are subject because of the increase in prices. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u120	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u121	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Minister, I confess that even I find it strange that the Minister brought this matter to debate today. It says that tourism is going well and it is recommended that it is necessary to change the productive profile of the Portuguese economy and go from there and deliver 40 million to Mário Ferreira to make cruises in the Arctic! Well, it wasn't me who brought this matter, it was Mr Minister and, therefore, he will certainly know how to justify this funding that seems to have no justification, until tourism goes well and why the idea is to diversify the production profile. It does not seem to me that luxury cruisers in the Arctic are the answer that the country needs at the moment, even more so when a businessman is concerned about who prevents suspicions of tax escape, among other things. The Minister said that the way a government manages a crisis says a lot about that government, and that's true. That is how we came to know the nature of the PSD and CDS government when they managed the last crisis and assumed austerity was the solution. What does it say about how this government is managing this crisis on the Government of the Socialist Party? Why do people impoverish? Why are people currently impoverishing, without being able to pay for their housing, their food, fuel? Why? Can Mr. Minister say there's no money in the country? What's a resource crisis in the country? Galp profited more than 500 % in March 2022. Galp's refining margins have doubled! Galp delivered EUR 600 million to its shareholders.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u122	Sure! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u123	Jerome Martins had more than 50 % profit in 2022. Yes, supermarkets, which are increasing prices, which makes people impoverish, are distributing profits of EUR 500 million to their shareholders.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u124	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u125	Sonae, which has the Model and the Continent, increased profits by 61 %, giving the shareholders EUR 100 million. The companies of the PSI-20, that is, the 18 companies listed in the stock exchange, will distribute to their shareholders EUR 2, EUR 5 billion. And this is happening in a country where people can't fill the fuel tank to go to work, they can't go to the supermarket and they're impoverishing every passing day. The remuneration of the board of directors of large companies increased by 50 %, the business administrators increased their own salary by 50 %, and while this is the only thing the government has to say to people is 'hold on, we will not increase your salary, because it is necessary to contain the inflationist spiral'. Therefore, profits can rise, margins can rise, prices can rise, profits can rise, wages of administrators can rise, but wages of workers are not. This is the choice of the Socialist Party, this was the way the Socialist Party decided to manage this crisis: it does not control prices, not profit rates, but contains wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u126	This works very well in Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u127	I asked you a few months ago, because it did not pay for Galp's extraordinary profits — however, more countries are doing so - the United Kingdom is doing so - Spain wants to do so - the European Commission recommends it - and the IMF too - and the Minister told me - that he might have done so, but soon he was rejected by the Environment Minister. What I would like to ask you is whether you have changed your mind and will ultimately tax Galp's profits or whether the government has a lot of courage to tell public officials that you will have frozen wages, but then you have little courage to face economic power in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u128	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u129	Mr. President, Pedro Pinto, of the Arrival. It is also important to refer to this information. Mr. Minister, I understand your goodwill, he is a serious man, a man with good will, but he said that tourism is the lever of the country. And I ask: what tourism? Is that tourism where tourists arrive at Lisbon airport and are five or six hours in a row to enter Portugal? Is that the quality tourism we want to give to those who come from outside? It's not. Has Mr. Minister ever been to some restaurant now, during the summer season, which has already begun? It's almost unworthy. The employees there are people without training, people without quality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u130	No quality? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u131	And you know why? Because there are no people to work. And you know why there are no people to work? There are no people to work because the Socialist Party prefers to get the Portuguese to earn subsidies and stay at home. That is the big problem and that is why there are no people to work. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Since I talked about the airport—and then about that mess between Minister Pedro Nuno Santos and Prime Minister—António Costa said he would like to make an agreement with the greatest party in the opposition. I don't know if it will be with us, because the only opposition in this Parliament is us, so I don't know if it will be with us. But if it is with the PSD, I remember that Socrates and Cavaco in 2007 also wanted an agreement to the airport. So if we saw José Socrates want an agreement at the airport, we are concerned that Antonio Costa also wants it. As for fuels, they are increasingly expensive. Antonio Costa lied to Parliament yesterday, where you are sitting. It is here: « The tax burden on fuels has fallen 18 percentage points » since October 2021. The speaker posted a newspaper. The Polygraph, so pleased by the Socialist Party, says it is false. Antonio Costa lied again in this Parliament, as he had already done in the debate 15 days ago. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The question that I ask you is whether or not you will follow the proposal of the Low Income in invoice, effective low in the taxpayer's purse, of 20 cents in fuel. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u132	To respond to this first block of requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the questions put by Mr John Dias about what is happening with fuels and on the increase in cost of living, there are four crucial measures that the Government has taken with regard to fuels. Firstly, the creation of « AUTOvoucher », which served about 3 million people and the total amount of EUR 133 million ; secondly, the suspension of the carbon rate and therefore is around EUR 156 million ; thirdly, the decrease in ISP (tax on petroleum and energy products) ; and fourthly, in line with that, the fall in VAT (tax on value added), which is significant, i.e. minus 11, 8 cents for petrol and minus 13 cents for petrol. With regard to neutrality, with fuel discounts, these four measures mean that Portuguese today pay less than 28 cents in the liter of gasoline and less than 31 cents in the liter of gasoline. We can discuss whether it is a lot, if it is little, but the fact is that the government has acted and is significant this intervention. Then there is still to be considered all that is being done at transport level. At this level, there are several measures, from the outset, to simplify the payment of tax obligations and social security contributions, to extend for five years the existing discounts and, on the part of the carriage of goods and passengers, there is also professional gas oil and to reduce the single traffic tax by 50 %. All these measures for all these sectors are taking their course. Regarding electricity, the ceiling that was established for the gas price on the Iberian market in these 15 days meant an average reduction of 38 € / MWh in the bill of electricity of Portuguese. It is about 14 % reduction in total of around EUR 27 million, only in 15 days. As regards the price of electricity, the Government mobilised an amount of around EUR 815 million, to which it added more EUR 150 million from the Environment Fund, for access to electricity tariffs, which covers the majority of Portuguese. With regard to the social tariff, I wanted to say that today we have about 763,000 families accessing this tariff; some years ago we had only 46 000. As far as the natural gas rate is concerned, today we have about 50 000 families accessing it; a few years ago, we had 5000 families. We can therefore discuss whether the government does much, if it does little, but what I know the government does, is paying attention to the situation, which, from this point of view, is extremely important. In relation to the questions of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, and starting with the first, concerning the Portuguese Development Bank, the function of the Government is to create conditions for the Development Bank to function. We are fighting for the Banco de Fomento to be a great national institution, able to act for the benefit of strategic capitalization of companies and, above all, to support business projects in the medium and long term, and therefore we are creating conditions for this. I think the new Development Bank team has this very clear view. The current team has suffered a lot of growth and we have to see how the issues will develop. With regard to the specific project that focuses on, there is no government intervention. The questions are clear: the Development Bank is autonomous, we are shareholders, we watch for this, we control through our associates who are in the general assembly, but the decisions are from the Development Bank. Decisions relating to these projects have been validated by the Investment Committee of the Development Bank and meet the criteria, which are transparent and are on the Bank's website. Legal, criminal or other issues, let's see how they evolve. As far as tourism is concerned, we must pay attention to a key issue: these investments are, exactly, recapitalisation, for the companies that were deeply whipped during the pandemic to recover their own capital. And one of the central problems that inhibits the development of the country is the weak capitalisation of companies, it is the level of capital per worker, which is extremely weak. One of the tasks of the Development Bank is to deal with this situation in the multiple sectors of the economy. On Mr Pedro Pinto's questions, I did not say exactly that tourism is the lever of the national economy. Tourism is at this time the sector that really contributes to the growth of the national economy, representing about 14 % of GDP in 2019. this year, I hope you beat the 2019 record because that means more employment in Portugal and more wealth. The problems of airports are not my responsibility, but I am still very concerned and hope that they will be resolved and that in the future there will be a flow, let us say, more stable of tourists. What I can say today is that we have markets, such as the United States, Canada, South America, Germany and England, which are growing significantly. [[They forgot to hit the palms!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u134	There is also a block of three requests for clarification. To make the first request, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, allow me to set an example here which, I believe, well illustrates the situation we want to present to you. If you are, except, a burning house and you appear with a fire extinguisher in your hands and clear the extinguisher through a window, you will certainly understand that in the other rooms the fire will continue out of control. And even where you used the fire extinguisher, there is still a lot that could burn. Then you can say: "This extinguisher cost a diner, I made a great effort to come to you and not even want to know what this house would look like if it weren't for me." The problem is that the house kept burning and we had already warned that more was needed to put out the fire. But, in a way, that is what is happening with fuel prices. We have stated from the outset that taxes had to be lowered, but that would not be enough. And there's confirmation of everything we said. The government tells us that if it were not the measures it took, the situation would be much worse, but the problem is that the price of fuels is out of control and we need to control and set the prices and gross margins of refining, because otherwise we will continue to gladly subsidize the millionaire profits of the oil. How much longer will the government remain indifferent to this reality? On the other hand, the Minister has already referred, and indeed, as regards electricity, the Government has been tireless in propagating a measure whose spectacularness must be further examined. We are talking about limiting the cost of natural gas used for electricity production and reducing the price of the Iberian market. What is at stake is a restriction of prices on the wholesale market, that is, of the electricity that marketers will buy to sell to consumers, and the government's expectation is that this price reduction will then be translated into the invoice that people pay. At least, let's say, it's a risky forecast. But the questions are: who will pay the cost of this measure? Is it true that the planned compensation of EUR 2, EUR 1 billion for this measure will be supported by the national electricity system by March next year, i.e. by consumers in general, and by households in particular? How does the government explain the difference in the imputation of these costs, from the outset to Spain, leaving the profits of multinationals here again untouchable? A final issue, which is indisputable at present, concerns the financing of companies and the application of Community funds. More than half of the RPP's funding for the capitalization of companies affected by the pandemic crisis was delivered to one company, that of Mr. Mário Ferreira, who we know well about the scandal of the Atlantic ship and so many other situations. I repeat, more than half of that program's allocation. So what about the thousands of micro and small entrepreneurs who don't have any support and can't afford funding? We well warned that this was going to happen, that large companies would be left with the bulk of the funding and the money from these funds. [[CH protests.]] Minister, is this acceptable to the Government? Is that supposed to be? What strategic guidelines are being given to the Development Bank for the management of these funds? And what measures will be taken in the face of this situation? You want the Development Bank to work, but for whom? The government must respond to what is happening, and this is the right time for that. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u136	Mr Minister has no time to answer, but I am sure that the government has taken good note of the issues and will have the closing period to speak on them, so I understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u137	The PCP can give you time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u138	Mr Francis César of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u139	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : After some time of debate in this House, I think I have made clear the position of the Socialist Party and the Government in the face of the current set of difficulties that we are going through and on the path that we have to go through, in partnership with the Portuguese. We do not have a vision beyond reality or a desire to hide the enormous sacrifice that families and businesses are making to manage their daily lives, to honour their commitments and to get the country to overcome the crisis from external, obvious circumstances, on which it has no responsibility. We well know what role the State should play, and in particular the government, in times of crisis and adversity. We are well aware that the road does not go through the weakening of the social state, the abandonment of public investment or the charitable way of any social emergency programme. And we know all this, because all this represents a recipe for a past of bad memory, for such a government that existed and was beyond the troika, and that now the new leader of the PSD eagerly wants to recover. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have already successfully proven that the road was another one, that the country can overcome challenges ahead, however difficult they are, if we have a capable, financially stable and socially responsible State, which invests in public services, which helps to protect the income of families, particularly the most disadvantaged, who undertakes to defend employment and support companies in maintaining their activity and their contribution to national wealth. Despite the contradictions in the road we have already travelled, it was possible to put the country growing above the European average; beat foreign investment records in Portugal; increase social benefits and pensions; implement the free of charge of day care and progressively extend the conventional network; consolidate the sustainability of social security; eliminate moderate rates in the National Health Service; increase by 25% the overall income of families in the last six years; increase by 40 % the minimum wage in the same period; and, at the same time, contrary to what many have said, increase employment above the European average and reduce unemployment to historical levels. However, we are not satisfied, we need to pursue a reformist path, not with the reforms that the right 'trohistist' proclaims, synonymous with cutting rights, more precariousness, less social status, more inequality and impoverishment. The option that we affirm, and which is currently under way, is structurally investment in the modernisation and coverage of the social state as a promoter of equal opportunities, of increased competitiveness of companies, of a decent work and value-added agenda for young people in the labour market, and of negotiation of a medium-term income and competitiveness agreement, which will allow the average wage to be raised by 20 % in the coming years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, this path that we have come to pursue is the one that enables us, in this context of international inflationary emergency, to act to the limit of our resources and to the limit of our competences to meet the situation of families and businesses in Portugal. We know that it is not honestly possible to prevent its effects from having any effect on our economy, but we also know that the action of the PS Government has been decisive in helping the Portuguese to endure this adversity further. Without the government's intervention, the Portuguese today would be paying another 32 cents per litre of gasoline and another 28 cents per litre of gasoline. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Without the intervention of the Government, electricity VAT would not have fallen from 23 % to 13 %, nor would it have saved, on the electricity-free market, with the entry into force of the Iberian Mechanism, 14 % of the electricity cost. But with this government more than 1 million families receiving social support have and will continue to automatically be entitled to extraordinary support for the food casket, worth more than EUR 128 million, a higher financial effort, depending on GDP, by 34 % than our neighbour Spain, for example, with exactly the same support. The Portuguese therefore know the difference between having a government that governs for people and knowing that they can count on the PS to be together, to be able to overcome the difficulties and to move Portugal forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u140	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from the PSD Parliamentary Group, which will be made by Mr Jorge Mendes, who will use his known and respected power of consensus to do so, and the Azores will not be left behind and therefore will also respond concisely. Please, Mr. Jorge Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u141	Mr President, with your kindness, I will try not to stretch myself too long in the 18 seconds that I have. Mr. Member, you spoke here of a government of bad memory, but I would like to remind you that this government of bad memory was the government that won the elections, exactly in 2015. He did not form a government with a management, but he won the elections with the Portuguese votes. Secondly, I wanted you to explain to the Portuguese people why today we have over 200 000 Portuguese who need a second job to cope with the famine of life, which is suffered by all of us, a great generality of Portuguese, especially because some of them are young. What do you explain? Why, in the last year, do we have more than 200 000 Portuguese people need to have a second job? Another question — since the Minister did not have time to answer to one who wanted to put it and to which he was registered — was to explain to us, in a simple way, where and how we will find work for tourism, which is cross-sectional, from the islands to the north of the country, and to the processing industry, which has many shipping portfolios, but does not know if it can be achieved, because it has no working hand to work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u142	To reply, Mr Francisco César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Deputy, in fact there is something that distinguishes us, which is our approach to adversity. The Socialist Party's approach is not to cut or squeeze with the Portuguese at the time of major complications in their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u144	It's the one to call the troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u145	The path we are taking is a different path, a path that allows us to have the lowest unemployment rate, practically, since the beginning of the century.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u146	There's no working hand!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u147	It is the path that allows to have exactly the largest number of active population since the beginning of the century. In fact, I can even tell you that, for example, the unemployment rate in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, ruled by your party, is higher than the national average. Here we see the difference in the paths that are being pursued. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I can also tell you that the difference in the way we are going is, for example, that we should increase the minimum wage, that we should have free daycare and that we should progressively extend the network, that we should freeze the tips, after we have gradually downloaded, that we should restate the pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u148	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u149	I will finish, Mr. President. In short, the way we are going is to be next to the Portuguese when they are in difficulty, not against the Portuguese, at a time that is more difficult for them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u150	Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u151	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Minister, Mrs Deputies, Mrs Members: Socialism impoverishes us and delays us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u153	We are the European champions of economic stagnation and impoverishment for the other countries of the European Union. We have no doubt of this and the results are in view of everyone. Let us see: Portugal is the country of Western Europe with the lowest wages. The wages of the Portuguese had the biggest fall since the time of the troika,... [[PS Member Hugo Carvalho's protests.]] ...when the holiday and Christmas allowances were cut. at the same time, we have the seventh tax burden on the highest work in Western Europe. In other words, it is very difficult for a wage increase to actually translate into a real increase in purchasing power. And we have a Prime Minister who has the disembarkation to ask private wage increases of 20 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u155	... where, at the same time, it proposes an update of 0, 9 % in the salaries of the civil service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u157	This is when we have an inflation of 8 %, reaching historic peaks of 30 years. And what about the increase of 33 cents a day for pensioners, what doesn't even give for coffee? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u158	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u159	This ability of the Prime Minister must be unmasked once and for all. We are the third country in the euro area where food prices have increased the most. The total price and tax burden of electricity in Portugal remain the highest in the European Union. About half the value of the electricity bill is taxed, while our neighbor Spain has already reduced VAT to 5 %. [[Congrats from the CH.]] When we talk about the price of fuels, we are from the countries of the Union which record one of the highest average prices, with a very high tax burden — a real assault on Portuguese pockets. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a very high tax burden, we could expect public services capable of responding to the needs of citizens, only not. What we have is: the National Health Service in a real chaos, with services closed by lack of doctors, that the government did not know how to retain, and endless queues of waiting for surgeries and other exams; students without classes for lack of teachers and schools where indiscipline reigns; a justice that does not work and does not properly put criminals, with former governors walking abroad and literally enjoying it with the face of Portuguese;... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... police officers who are assaulted in the exercise of their profession, to whom the government refuses to value. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Over the last 27 years in Portugal, the PS has ruled 20, I repeat, 20 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u161	After all these years in front of the government, we have the result: more stagnation, more poverty, more misery, we are on the tail of Europe, in short, more socialism. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u162	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : General increase in wages, increase in minimum wage to €850 within a short period of time, elimination of the expiry of collective bargaining and replacement of the most favourable treatment principle, revision of the single remuneration table, valuation of careers, progress and remuneration in the public and in the private sector; Effective link for all working links that satisfy permanent needs, on a path to eradicating the precariousness that must be assumed as a national design, as in times past, was assumed to eradicate child labour; Reduction of working hours to 35 hours for all workers, elimination of all the mechanisms that disrupt working hours, enhancement of the rights of those who work in shifts and at night hours, combating their misuse, so that there are decent hours, time to live, time to live in the family, but also for culture, for sport, for leisure, for social life and, moreover, for children not to be in child support equipment or in schools 8, 10 or 12 hours, a time equal or greater to the working days of the parents, so that there is an effective link between professional, personal and family life; Reposition, for all workers, of the amounts and rules for calculating the payment of overtime work, additional work and on working day or weekly rest; Reposition of redundancies and elimination of a set of criteria facilitating redundancies in our country; strengthening public services and social functions of the State, strengthening professionals to ensure and enhance their rights; Strengthening the rights of motherhood and paternity and follow-up to children, so that working parents and mothers can closely monitor the growth and development of their children and that children will see their right to be accompanied, at all stages of their growth, by their parents; Ensuring the constitutional right to work and to work with rights—in the wage, in the bond, in the hours, in the working conditions, in the social protection. These are the demands of thousands and thousands of workers who today went to the streets at the demonstration convened by the CGTP-IN (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers- National Trade Union ), demanding better working conditions and living conditions; proposals that the CCP has presented and defended in this Parliament and that the PS, together with the PSD and its successors, has rejected, thus placing itself, alongside the patronage, especially the large and large economic groups, being complicating of their gross profits at the expense of the attack on wages and rights, choosing to fill the pockets of the gentlemen of money at the expense of the sacrifices and the impoverishment of hundreds of thousands. These are proposals that we have put forward and by which we will continue to fight, not only because it is of the greatest justice to value those who create the wealth of our country, men and women workers, who every day make this country function, who every day, with the strength of their work, guarantee public services, guarantee national production and allow access to a wide range of goods and services that are part of our lives. Not only because there is no developed country without valued workers, but also because the daily work site is marked by the worsening exploitation, blackmail and repression of workers, by the brutal intensification of working rhythms, by highly irregular hours and long working days, by attacks on action and trade union freedom, by the weakening of workers' rights and social protection, in a labour reality that is also highlighted by low wages and high levels of precariousness, both in the public and in the private sector. More than 525 000 workers are impoverished working, i.e., they do not take more than €554 per month to face all their expenses; more than €2 million and 700 thousand workers have wages less than €1000; 40 % of young workers have a monthly net income of €627, to this most qualified generation of always. Well over 1 million workers have precarious links, from false green receipts to outsourcing, passing through the six-month experimental period, temporary work, term contracts, scholarships, internships, part-time work, digital platforms, among other forms of precariousness that bring instability, insecurity and uncertainty about the future to a significant part of our country's workers, many of them young. In a country where 70 % of employment created in the first quarter was with precarious links, receiving workers on average less than 40 % than an effective worker, when inflation reaches 8, 7 % and where wages and pensions are not increased in order to restore the purchasing power that is being lost, this means an effective cut in wages and pensions for workers, pensioners and pensioners in our country. It is to these realities that it is necessary to answer without delay and without delay. Workers in our country do not have to be subject to low wages, precariousness, exploitation, blackmail and repression. This reality is not an inevitability, contrary to what many want to believe. The workers, with their struggle, will be the engine for the necessary transformations. from the CFP, in this Assembly of the Republic, we will give a voice to their demands and proposals, reaffirming our commitment to improving their working and living conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u164	Mr Pedro Pessanha has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Ministers, the war in Ukraine has led to a profound change in the paradigm in the production, distribution and consumption of raw materials globally. This change is causing unprecedented price increases in recent decades. Only energy has increased as it has not been seen since the 1973 oil crisis. Food and fertilizers, which have two of their main producers in Ukraine and Russia, have reached price increases only comparable to 2008. The World Bank's outlook for this year is not encouraging either. For energy, they point to a possible increase of up to 50 %; for food, this increase may reach 20 %. Obviously, this whole scenario can change, but to worse, depending on the evolution of the conflict. If Russia takes control of southern Ukraine by closing the ports by which it exports more than 80 % of its goods, prices may increase on a scale never seen, with unimaginable consequences, not only for the Western economies but also for the world economy. Another major concern is the transfering effect of the increase in the price of a particular product or commodity to others, the so-called « chain effect ». The increase in energy prices, for example, necessarily has an impact on the costs of producing and distributing other products, such as the production of fertilizers or the transport and distribution of food.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u167	Thus, and in view of these gloomy economic prospects for Europe and the world, it becomes more obvious than it is that only the end of the conflict can restore some stability and normality on the markets, although it cannot be counted on the return to normality immediately after the end of the conflict. In view of this, Ex. Government members, urgent — urgent! — that the Government can find concrete solutions in order to mitigate all the problems that have been presented here. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u168	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Faces and Dear Colleagues: Today, I have the eternity of 3 minutes, plus the tolerance, perhaps, that the other parliamentary groups also had,... [[Laughing.]] ...and, therefore, allow me to start at one point a little side, but still revealing our debate. In the previous election campaign, when the right-wing wanted to be “meditated” with the Liberal Initiative, it said that the Liberal Initiative was the Left Block on the right. I always felt that this was unfair, but today it became even clearer that, in fact, the Liberal Initiative is the right-wing PCP, the patron class party. [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u170	That is, while the PCP takes its class consciousness, legitimately, the Liberal Initiative, finally, projects its class consciousness as a class party of the bosses, in a kind of illusory image of liberalism. When the CFP — to whom I greet, for bringing this debate to plenary — says that it is necessary to increase wages to cope with the cost of living, the Liberal Initiative reacts with horror: "No, increasing wages is increasing the monetary mass available, it will create more inflation! What is needed is to lower taxes, particularly those of the richest, because this suddenly no longer increases the monetary mass available.' Therefore, the Liberal Initiative defends restrictive policies in interest, wages, currency, less in the taxes of the richest. And when they have the recession that these restrictive policies cause, recession that will come upon a pandemic, upon a war, there they will say that it is also necessary to lower taxes and, at that time, I will agree, although not for the richest, because this is the difference between dogma and practice: in dogma, lower taxes is the cure for migraine, drop, a bond and dyspepsia. In concrete reality, in practice that is being lived by the workers who are out there today, the situation is very different. The Liberal Initiative will one day clarify whether, for example, it considers taboo what you liberals of the past did to inflation that had very different origins, because one thing is inflation in times of peace and another is inflation in times of war, which, by liberals like Churchill and Roosevelt, was controlled too—see, there, horror! — price control. I don't know if this is taboo for today's Liberal Initiative. What is essential in the face of a situation like the one we are living in is not so much the discussion about whether it is conjuncural or permanent, except in what reveals to us the attitude of the rulers: if the rulers insist very much on what the situation is conjuncural is because they are basically waiting for it to pass and think that the important thing is "to run after the damage". [[CH's laughs.]] But if we take this situation, whether it is conjunctural or not, as an opportunity to structurally transform the Portuguese economy, then we will have to invest in another type of policy than we see, for example, with the first wave of support from the PRR, which was basically to support tourism, which not only tells us that it is reacting very well as it is a dependency that we have already brought back, because tourism is important in our economy, but it does not cease to be a dependence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u171	Watch out for time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u172	Where, for example, is a national housing programme, not for the 26,000 houses the government usually talks about, but for up to 100,000 houses? Oh, my God! Where are free public transport, not to act on the dependence of fossil fuels, but to cure that dependence? Oh, my God! That is, where is the Ministry of Economics, in time of war, as a true ministry of supply, making life cheaper for Portuguese? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u173	Sir, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u174	In other words, rather than waiting for it to pass — and thanks for the tolerance, Mr President — it is important to act to transform. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u175	It is only the pleasure that these periods of tolerance given to the Libertad cause the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, which is soon with another disposition... I am delighted. Justify tolerance. [[Laughing.]] [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Pedro Pinto, to close this part of the debate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Believe that it is also a pleasure for the Parliamentary Group of Arrival to be here. And then, when we become more, it will be the greatest pleasure! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I have to tell you, too, that it is a pleasure to see the Socialist Party beat hands to an appendix of the Socialist Party, which is the Free Party. Well, let's go to the debate, which is actually what matters. Today, when I saw Mr Bruno Dias go up to the rostrum, I thought: it is today that the CFP will make a different speech. [[Impossible!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u177	But no, this speech could have been made by Álvaro Cunhal, Octávio Pato or even Carlos Brito, 47 years ago, because the PCP has not evolved anything, it always makes the same speech, always with the same tape. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What Mr Bruno Dias has forgotten to say — and Mr. Members here, in this House today, have spent all the time they had and have forgotten to say, is that we are talking about a brutal increase in prices. And why this brutal price increase? Because of a war, a war that the CFP was unable to condemn, and it was the only party within this Parliament that did not do so! They assume this at once: they were unable to condemn this war! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u178	And you support!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u179	They like to say that the arrival has no proposals, but let's really go to the facts. Financial support for electricity consumption in agricultural and livestock activities — proposal from the Czech Republic. PCP vote : against! Maximum ceiling on the price of agricultural gas oil — proposal from the Commission to the Council. PCP vote : against! Study of EDIA ( Alqueva Development and Infrastructure Company, S.A. ) to increase the fight against drought — proposal from the Czech Republic. PCP vote : against! VAT for electricity — proposal from the Commission to the Council. PCP vote: abstention! Exemption from VAT on essential goods — proposal from the Commission. PCP vote: abstention! Reinforcement in the recruitment and exploitation of forest scaffolds — proposal from the Arrival. PCP vote: abstention! Even with regard to the proposal to increase the value of the pension supplement to former combatants—and the CFP had an equal! — How did the CFP vote? We abstained while we voted in favour of the CFP proposal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the big difference between the Arrival and the PCP: the PCP is here for ideology, nothing more, it only sees ideology, it cannot see the well-being and the interest of the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u180	You have to stop copying proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u181	But I also understand: the PCP is complicit, it is complicit in this Government of the Socialist Party, it is complicit in this absolute majority. You were, along with the Left Block, who withdrew the victory to the PSD and CDS, all joined together and made the management. Now what do you have? They have an absolute socialist majority! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Ms Ana Mendes Godinho, it was nice to say « we have always been with the Portuguese». It's true! « We have reached 3 and a half million Portuguese», the words of the Minister. What about the others? It is that the socialist legacy has for now left 4 million Portuguese at the threshold of poverty. And those whose shops or restaurants had to close? Where were the backups when people needed them? They weren't! What if the socialist state fails? I have to tell you that you have recently failed. He recently failed with the case of little Jessica in Setúbal, who was already signalled and let her die. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What country does the Socialist Party leave us? Oh, my God! Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u182	It's a pleasure, sir. Thank you very much for your speech and for that sentence on the pleasure that you have to be here in Parliament. It is even the right place, because here we are according to the choices of the people. For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, during the closing of the debate, which follows, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two conclusions we can draw from this debate. The first is the need, fairness and urgency of the solutions proposed by the CFP to combat the worsening living conditions, including the recovery of wages and pensions and the control and fixing of prices of essential goods, along with the promotion of national production and support for small farmers and fishermen and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The second conclusion is that the PS Government's systematic lack of political will to adopt solutions to the problems, especially for the loss of purchasing power, and its subservience to the interests of the economic groups. Essential goods prices increase from week to week. The profits of the economic groups are growing, while workers and pensioners are impoverished. The wealth is increasingly concentrated in the pocket of a half a dozen, as the overwhelming majority of workers and pensioners have less and less. There is more than evidence of the galloping growth in the inflation rate and its link to rising prices, caused by the economic groups to increase their profits. But the government insists on not dealing with this reality, opting for measures of limited scope which have proved insufficient and do not go to the root of the problems, despite having all the conditions to do so. It is now that workers and pensioners lose purchasing power. It is now imperative to prevent it, and that requires price control and also the immediate increase in wages and reforms. when refusing these solutions, the PS imposes a policy of loss of purchasing power and is responsible, in practice, for cuts in the real value of wages and pensions, is responsible for the impoverishment of workers and pensioners, is responsible for increasing inequalities and social injustices. Not giving the necessary answer to the problems not only compromises the present as it compromises the future. There is nothing that prevents the government from giving the necessary answer to these problems; it does not, because it does not want to face the interests of the economic groups. Is that why the PS wanted so much the absolute majority? Oh, my God! Was it to remain free to pursue a policy based on low wages and pensions, a policy to attack workers' rights and to degrade living conditions, while at the same time providing support to economic groups, which increase exploitation on workers? Oh, my God! When confronted with antagonistic interests, the PS always opts to the detriment of workers and the people, favoring the great patronage and economic groups. This option, moreover, is an option that unites PS, PSD, Liberal Initiative and arrives in subordination to the interests of economic groups and in rejection of proposals and solutions that, by serving workers, pensioners, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, small farmers and fishermen, call into question the profits of economic groups and multinationals. The intervention of the CFP, its proposals and the solutions that we bring about are concrete problems, real problems. When we propose and present these solutions, the PS, PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival refuse them. While it is clear that economic and multinational groups are making use of war and sanctions, as they have done before, with the epidemic—even when the other side of the money of millionaire profits that they collect every day is the exacerbation of social injustice, poverty and degradation of living conditions—there are the PS, the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Liberal Initiative there to defend the interests of the economic groups, the ruling class, against the workers, the reformed and the people. This has characterized the intervention of these political forces. They say there because they refuse to set a reference price for food or because they refuse to set maximum prices for fuel and gas. And do not come with the rhetoric of competition and market freedom, because the result is in view of almost 20 years of liberalisation of the energy market, with prices always rising...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u184	Last year, they came down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u185	... and the same as always to be paid, because the margins and profits of oil, energy and large distribution are untouchable. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings concrete solutions to the Assembly of the Republic, which respond to problems. These are solutions that go through an alternative policy, patriotic and left-wing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u186	47 years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u187	... which requires the immediate realization of solutions to : the valorisation of work and workers, their careers and remuneration; the enhancement of the purchasing power of workers and reformers; the repeal of the serious standards of labour law; the control and fixing of prices of essential goods, in conjunction with combating speculation; the promotion of national production and support for productive sectors and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; the public control of strategic sectors of the economy; access to housing and the strengthening of public services and social functions of the State in the areas of health, education and social protection and in other areas. The CFP is the political force that fights for these solutions and that corroborates the demands of the workers and the people. It is the workers who produce the wealth of this country, but, when it comes to its distribution, it is the one with the least part. So today, the workers are struggling! They fight for better living conditions, for better working conditions, for dignity in life and at work, they fight for their rights and for the future of the country! in this Parliament, we reaffirm that workers, reformers and the people count on and can count on the CFP, its solidarity and the intervention of a force that fights for the rise of living conditions, against poverty and inequality, for the strengthening of labour and social rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u188	To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea, Mr Antonio Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I think that in this debate the position of the Government has been to listen to the proposals of the various parliamentary groups and to respond, as far as possible, to all the measures being implemented. We are based on evidence from extraordinary support measures to families that are most vulnerable to everything that is being done to contain the price of fuels, and which is significant. I also refer to measures to limit the exponential increase in the price of electricity and all we are doing in the field of transport, with cross-border measures aimed at the transport of goods and passengers. There is also all the cabaz, which has not been very explicit, which has to do with agricultural products and food goods and, above all, there are significant packages for the electrointensive industries and the gas-intensive industries, whose measures are also being implemented. Therefore, this joint set results in a significant package, a great effort that the country is making together to deal with the immense difficulties in which we are. from the point of view of the government, looking at the collapse of crises in which Europe and the world are plunged, from the geopolitical crisis to the security crisis, the economic crisis, the food crisis and, finally, everything that has to do with the energy crisis, we are mainly concerned about five major economic variables and their control. Everything else results from a structured and qualified approach to these five major variables. The first has to do with GDP, whose behaviour in 2022 has been very interesting. It is clear that the growth in chains, in the short term, will decrease somewhat, as a result of the war and all the reflections it has, as well as its continuity, but the behaviour of GDP is a sign of hope and therefore we must support all sectors, businesses and workers, and develop a significant platform for their recovery. The second extremely important factor is public debt. The government's path of fiscal consolidation and control of public debt is absolutely indispensable. Why? Because in the difficult times that are approaching, we have the combination of two variables that can be central in the country's response. In the previous crises, what did we have? We had GDP in contraction and the debt of the country to rise. At present, we have exactly the opposite, with the resilient behaviour of GDP and the reduction of public debt. The third factor is the inflation rate, which is probably the most complex economic variable we have to deal with. As I said one day former President of the United States Federal Reserve, Paul Volcker, «inflation is a creature that can acquire its own life ». Therefore, not only in Portugal, but in all European countries, the secret to combating inflation is the synchronisation between monetary policy and fiscal policy. And we know of European weaknesses at this level, because we have monetary union and fiscal separation. But I hope that the lessons from the past prevail, because it is very important that they condition the answers. Then, we must not forget that responding to inflation when there is a brutal shock of supply, as is happening today, is different from the answers that exist when there is a shock in demand. The specificities are different, the conditionings are different, therefore, the approach to this complexity has to be structured and has to be studied. And, excuse me, but the simplistics, the demagogy and the political exploitation of the difficulties do not lead anywhere. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] The fourth factor, which is very significant for the country and which is also under control, is that of the public deficit. And the 1, 9 %, which the government announced will be hit, is another key variable. But the last factor is extraordinary: the unemployment rate. Despite the crisis, which demonstrates the resilience of the Portuguese economy, which demonstrates the long-term impact of the measures taken, from the previous government to now, is the fact that we have the lowest unemployment rates from a historical point of view. This resilience is significant. Therefore, this rejects all the apocalyptic visions that exist, rejects all the catastrophic readings that exist. of these five major variables, I think four are under reasonable control; we will see the answer to the fifth, within the framework of European policy, and we will give signs of hope to the country. The human species needs hope, and hope based on reality, because when the human species no longer hopes the worst demons take care of us. And the catastrophic and apocalyptic narratives are all we can't have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u190	No, no! It's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u191	I wanted to finish by saying that it is always with humility that we saw this House, we listen to all the proposals and structure our work. from the point of view of the Portuguese economy, what we are trying to do is create the conditions for its structural transformation, without ignoring the role that digitization and decarbonization can have in this context. I wanted to end by quoting an extraordinary phrase...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u192	Ah! He was missing the quote!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u193	... of Israeli thinker Yuval Noah Harari, who once said: « The human species tends to think on narratives rather than on facts, not on numbers and not on equations». Now, what we bring here is facts, numbers and, if you want, equations in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u194	This concludes the debate on the CFP's question on general policy. You now have the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, Secretary of State, to pass on some information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u195	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I just wanted to tell the House that Mr. Alexandre Simões of the PSD has attended our work by videoconferencing, because he is in prophylactic isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-07.u196	Thank you very much, Secretary. Our next plenary session is held tomorrow, Friday, 8th, at 10 a.m. the first item is the joint debate of the Proposal for a Law No 15 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends labour legislation within the framework of the Dignified Work Agenda and the Bills Nos 2 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, and 10th amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, which approves the General Law on Public Works), 3 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the principle of the most favourable treatment of the worker, eliminates the expiry of collective bargaining and regulates the succession of collective labour agreements ( the ninth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 63 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals adaptability and time bank mechanisms, in group modalities and by collective regulation ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), 64 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals individual adaptability mechanisms ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), 161 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens mechanisms to combat forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, directly responsible the whole subcontracting chain and user companies, as well as managers, administrators and directors, 162 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal for objective reasons when the employer provides compensation to the worker (twenty second amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 163 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and the social protection of workers by shift and night ( Twenty-second amendment to the Labour Code), 164 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates 35 hours as a normal period of work in the private sector ( twenty-second amendment to the Labour Code ), 165 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Repeals the amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the period of the troika, which came to facilitate lay-offs and reduce compensation due to workers, making the twenty-second amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 166 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recognizes the right to 25 holidays in the private sector ( Twenty-second Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 167 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Resets the value of additional work and compensatory rest, 168 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens collective bargaining, respect for trade union affiliation and restores the principle of more favourable treatment to the worker ( twenty-second amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 169 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Extends the rights of parenthood under the Labour Code, strengthening the rights of children and strengthening gender equality in parenthood (the twenty-third amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February of the Labour Code), 170 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Sets 7 hours a day and 35 hours a week as the maximum of the normal working period in Portugal ( twenty-third amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February of the Labour Code ), 174 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — It foresees the system of menstrual pain defects, amending the Labour Code, 175 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the system of errors due to gestational mourning by amending the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and 176 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves measures to strengthen parental protection, for the purpose of the sixth amendment to the Labour Code and the sixth amendment to the social protection system in parenthood within the framework of the social security system and the solidarity subsystem. The second point is the joint discussion of Bill Nos 41 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The law on circular and ecological public purchases is created, 142 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Establishs measures to promote ecological design and increase the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, 159 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Set criteria for public services and green, sustainable and socially just purchases, 160 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish measures to promote durability and guarantee of equipment to combat programmed obsolescence and 171 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the legal regime for green and circular public purchases. The third point is the assessment of Lein.o 31 / XV / 1 Projects. a ( PCP ) — Extension of incentives for the establishment of health professionals in units and geographical areas with health deficiencies, 158 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Incentives for the establishment of health professionals in deprived areas, and 172 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Alter the incentive scheme for the establishment of health professionals in deprived areas by amending Decree-Law No 101 / 2015 of 4 June 2015. The fourth point is the debate of Resolution Projects Nos 20 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — For the total forgiveness of Ukrainian foreign debt, 124 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For a 20-year moratorium on payment of Ukraine's external debt and Russia's accountability, and 125 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government consider renegotiation or forgiveness of Ukraine's debt to Portugal. At the end of the work, there will be regular votes. Good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 51 minutes.]]
