ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, to do the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u2	Mr. President, very good morning to all. The following information is to be read from the Parliamentary Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members: « From the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Nuno Fazenda, from the electoral circle of Castelo Branco, is replaced by José Pedro Leitão Ferreira, from the same electoral circle, with effect from December 2, 2022, including. Having noted the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the non-elected candidate, José Pedro Leitão Ferreira, is indeed the following candidate, who must take up the mandate as listed in the suffrage in the electoral circle of Castelo Branco. The applicable laws and regulations were observed. in this regard, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members has decided to deliver the following opinion: “The suspension of Mr Nuno Fazenda meets the legal requirements, being replaced by José Pedro Leitão Ferreira, with effect from 2 December 2022, including.” Do not keep on seeking. ” It's just, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. The suspension is therefore automatic, there is no reason to vote on this opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Let us then begin our agenda. The first point is the assessment of Parliamentary Inquiry No 4 / XV / 1. a, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival - possible parliamentary investigation committee for the assessment of the management of the pandemic by covid-19. To submit the proposal, Mr André Ventura, from the Czech Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State: What we are discussing today is some sense that this Parliament is starting an investigation, like what is being done in many countries in Europe, about how the Portuguese State managed the pandemic. In recent years the vast majority of countries, including Portugal, have chosen to, in view of the urgency of the acquisition of goods and services, provide prior visas and control of the Court of Auditors ( TdC ) and their control judicial entities for most of these goods and services. We did so by believing that the urgency of the decisions that the Government had to make and the imperative need for effective and rapid decisions could lead to immediate results. Today, we know what we suspected a few months ago: there was a disastrous and suspicious acquisition of many of the goods that were purchased to combat the pandemic by coward-19. Let's take the example of fans and masks. It was thousands — thousands! — contracts made, some of which have never arrived in Portugal, others which are not published in the BASE Public Contract Portal and others which have come with instructions in Mandarim. Many of these cases are pointed out by the Court of Auditors as very serious failings, in which many of these contracts are not even duly published, nor have they been made known.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u6	I would like the House to know this: from January 2021 to March 2022, we had 22 134 contracts in a total of EUR 2 billion. Of these, 88, 5 % did not have any supervision or control of the Court of Auditors. What we have today is the need of the Portuguese Parliament to launch a thorough investigation into the way this process has been conducted. Mr. President, Mrs. State Secretary, Mrs. Members, suspicions in public procurement in this area are serious and have already been pointed out by the Court of Auditors. Acquisitions in the field of goods and services in the field of vaccines have already led the European institutions and the European Public Prosecutor's Office to launch a great deal of research on this matter. to date, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is criminally investigating the acquisition of vaccines in European space, including Portugal. It is up to us to be part of this work. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In accordance with Article 1. the Legal System of Parliamentary Investigations, the task of the investigations is to monitor compliance with the Constitution and to assess in this respect the acts of the Government. It has never been as important to take such control as when we went through successive states of emergency and suspension of laws. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u7	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u8	Mr. President, Mr. State Secretaries, Mr. and Mr. Members: The House has already proposed six Commissions of Inquiry in this House. The arrival is for the investigation committees as the PS is for the working groups. They propose them for two reasons: for everything and for nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u10	Besides, it's not just about this that it's getting more and more like the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u11	That's not it! [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u12	There is, therefore, a certain statistical drift, because it also wants to put the state in everything today. [[PS and CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be calm, control your blood pressure, because we will make this committee's proposal viable! We are going to make this committee of inquiry viable because, although the Liberal Initiative is against this banalization of committees of inquiry, it makes a lot of sense in particular. This is because it is, in fact, essential to assess and make public whether the government's management during the pandemic was as fantastic as PS's propaganda wants us to believe. [[PS protests.]] This committee of inquiry is justified, not because the role of the Court of Auditors is to be replaced here in the particular case, but because we want to establish political responsibilities in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u14	We need to know, Portuguese have the right to know how the criteria of conditional access to health care were decided and the impact that this had on excess mortality, which is why, some still today, abusive measures such as impediments in the follow-up of women during pregnancy and childbirth.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u16	As it is that the impact of decisions on closing schools has been evaluated, both as regards the delay in learning, and as regards the impact on mental health of children and young people. We need to know what the balance sheet, in terms of implementation and effectiveness, of support for businesses and liberal professionals, and how we can estimate the waste of public money resulting from the relaxation of the rules of public procurement during this period. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u17	And by now this committee of inquiry will also allow us to see the consistency of the parties during the pandemic. For example, the arrival, at first, was a defender of confinement, but then, when the Liberal Initiative insisted on the contrary, they began to talk about attacks on freedoms.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u18	That's right! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS itself approved the final report of the Possible Commission on the follow-up to the implementation of the response measures to the pandemic of the covered 19 disease and the process of economic and social recovery of the past legislation, the final text of which stated: "The real dimension of all impacts on society and economy is not exhausted in the context and there is no longer time for analysis, and this parliamentary follow-up should continue in the next legislature. Do not keep on seeking. ” This was the PS position, without a majority. [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] I want to see what the PS position is with a majority and whether they will enable this parliamentary committee of inquiry to arrive or if we are going to see, again, who is conveniently giving the hand to the media agenda of the Arrival. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u20	Mr Guilherme Almeida of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a parliamentary inquiry initiative, presented by the party of the Czech Republic, to evaluate the management of the pandemic by covid-19. The evaluation of the management of this pandemic, which has affected our country so much and has impacted the lives of Portuguese people, is undoubtedly a matter of greater national interest and importance. We know that not everything went well in this management, nor do we ignore that only by recognizing mistakes can we avoid making them again. The question is therefore not whether the matter is important or deserves attention. He is important and deserves all attention. For the PSD, it is up to us to decide whether Parliament should now move forward to a parliamentary inquiry into the management of the pandemic by covid-19, in a growing framework of compression and limitation of Parliament's capabilities to politically control the current socialist majority, an increasingly suffrage party in the temptation to control the state. We will also see how much the Socialist Party resists the temptation to neutralize the self-employed administrative institutions, which must tenaciously defend the rights of patients. in this framework, it is legitimate to fear that the PS may take advantage of a parliamentary commission of inquiry to whiten many of the responsibilities of the rulers, throwing under the carpet what in some cases were wrong decisions, in others, sometimes late, sometimes insufficient and at other times still excessive. Mr President, let us concentrate on the issue of the evaluation of the management of covid-19. In this regard, it should be noted that Portugal is one of the pilot countries of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) initiative, whose aim is to evaluate the capacity and preparation of countries' response to public health emergencies. This is also the time of the competent bodies to evaluate the response of Portuguese to the pandemic, in an essentially positive perspective, of learning, strengthening the sharing of resources and experiences, with a view to improving the preparation and response to future public health emergencies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u22	As for the pandemic, we know that there was merit of health professionals, true heroes in combating the virus and in saving human lives. There was a sense of collective responsibility of the Portuguese, who soon joined the vaccination campaigns and greatly contributed to the containment of the spread of the disease. [[PSD applause.]] And there was also the merit of some leaders of the state and local authorities. With regard to the authorities, we regret that, two and a half years later, they continue without any response from the Government on the reimbursement of expenditure, after having been the first entities to be on the ground, to fight the pandemic and to provide social assistance to the people. [[PSD applause.]] [[It's true, well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u23	Mr President, the suspension of all care activities scheduled at the SNS ( National Health Service ), decided by the Government throughout the pandemic, without any alternative to chronic patients and those who saw their consultations and surgeries cancelled, had and still had consequences for mortality in Portugal. We cannot forget the 25 450 deaths and the 5,542,265 infected by covid-19 in Portugal. But the truth is, in the last two years, mortality has not increased in our country just because of causes related to covid-19. Non-covid mortality has also increased significantly since March 2020 — thousands of deaths in excess, as the INE ( National Institute of Statistics) has warned, and we know that this trend will continue in the coming years. To put it simply, what has ceased to be done during the blackest pandemic period has not been, in most cases, compensated since then. Two examples, taken from the latest Annual Access Report on SNS: the presence of medical consultations in primary health care in SNS, which ran from 20 million in 2019, decreased to less than 13 million in 2020, and by 2021 did not reach 15 million. This means less than 5 million annual consultations, a breakdown of 25 %. The 630 000 scheduled surgeries carried out under the SNS in 2021 did not allow the 115 000 to be recovered by 2020. in this context, a general mobilization of the whole health system to save lives was required, but the government, by ideological sectarianism or simple incompetence, was clearly not up to its responsibilities! However, the socialist propaganda machine convinced many Portuguese that the work the government did was fantastic and something extraordinary. But, without having all the necessary technical elements — and in particular the WHO report — we consider that no conditions have yet been laid down for the setting up of a possible committee of inquiry, which, at present and under current conditions, would not help to replace the lie with truth. And the PSD is always for the truth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u24	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: in a context where we see inflation to increase, with the increase in the cost of living of families, who hope that in this House of the Republic we are debating proposals to respond to their needs, the arrival brings us one more of their numbers, to do some kind of show-off. [[CH protests.]] I recall that when the Covid-19 Committee was set up, what we had in this House was a very clear and concise proposal from the NAP for that committee to have the power to monitor transparency issues. At the time, only the NAP proposed, we did not see it coming forward with the proposal of a similar committee. [[CH protests.]] This does not mean that, in our view, everything is going well in the management of the pandemic and, less so, that there is no need for scrutiny. But at present there are committees where this is possible without the fact that, once again, we are already discussing the fourth motion for a committee of inquiry, thus trivializing the arrival, this regiment figure, which is of the greatest relevance, rather than the existing committees, if we do this work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u26	It's work! Some people like to work!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u27	Since we are not complicit with these types of political numbers, we will vote against it because scrutiny can and must be done in existing committees. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u28	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference between taking asides, which are regimental, and being constantly interrupting the speaker in the use of the word, so as to disturb his reasoning. The parts are admissible, these constant interruptions are not. I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares to speak on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u29	Mr. President, Mr. State Secretaries, Mr. and Mr. Members : I wanted to deliver a proposal for a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the management of the entire covered process, more or less for the same days when André Ventura, the President of the Arrival, declared international support to Jair Bolsonaro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u30	That's right! [[CH-protests and BE-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u31	There are curiosities, features and even here are details that end up gaining a fundamental outline in this debate. [[CH protests.]] André Ventura wanted to look forward to supporting Jair Bolsonaro, known in Brazil for having a genocidal policy in the management of the entire covered process. [[CH protests.]] André Ventura and the Arrival wanted to support Jair Bolsonaro, known in Brazil for participating in a mega corruption scheme, at the expense of the covid vaccines. [[CH protests.]] André Ventura and the Arrival wanted to support Jair Bolsonaro, known in Brazil for having used all the debate about the coward to, by devaluing such influenza, allow hundreds of thousands of Brazilians to die. [[CH protests.]] And, with these choices to follow a genocidal policy, to devalue a small flu that, in fact, killed hundreds of thousands of Brazilians, to accompany those who were in fact involved in corruption schemes, we realize that, in the management of the hideous process, the arrival can only criticize the government and the Portuguese state for stealing little, in this context. This is the only conclusion we have to reach, because, if it were Jair Bolsonaro, then the arrival would be next to his corruption scandals, his genocide policy and let hundreds of thousands of people die in Brazil. It's the choice of Enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u32	Where's Robles? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u33	It's the choice of arrive and it'll stay with her. But, as far as the Party is concerned, while there was a request for the population to safeguard themselves, not to pass the virus between themselves, to be careful in social contacts, we also remember the pillows and dinners, without mask, without social distance, a true "covid party" of the Party. And now it's the same party that wants to ask what the copper management was like. [[CH protests.]] Now, from the side of arriving, we realized what it was like: it was for everything and for everyone, I am looking forward to giving everywhere — this is the reality! [[CH protests.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Arrival, Mrs. Member of the Arrival,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u34	We don't get Champalimaud, do you see? Oh, my God! We don't get Champalimaud! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u35	... we realize that in this way of managing serious matter, there is no seriousness on the side of the Arrival, as there is no seriousness in the management of proposals for the creation of parliamentary committee of inquiry—this is the fourth, it is already on the sixth,... [[CH's laughs.]] ...there may be more. It's a sport, not a political will.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u36	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u37	But I am telling you one thing: on the left side of the Block, so that there is no doubt about this matter, we will not impede this committee of inquiry. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u38	But we will not whiten the reality of arriving, which, as far as the management of the covid process is concerned, has not passed, has a record. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u39	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr André Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Allow me, first of all, to reiterate, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, a word of comfort, a word of empathy to the millions of victims who have lost their lives throughout the world. This is the first word that is due, when you talk about coward-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u42	But at a time when the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival proposes, on behalf of its proto-conspiracyist media agenda, which has also been mentioned here by the Block of the Left, to explore the immense pain this dark event brought, we once again address a word of thanks to the local authorities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u43	The local authorities! There's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u44	...to the Armed Forces, to the health professionals, to the authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u45	Those you guys are mistreating? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u46	... and civil protection, to the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), to the academy and to all Portuguese that collaborated in this confrontation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] We note, moreover, that for the PSD bench all are worthy of praise, all were well, except for the government, but that is not what we want to focus on. [[CH Protests and PSD Deputies.]] Dear colleagues, the opening of a parliamentary inquiry constitutes an act of special importance, and its creation must be reflected with tremendous accuracy. In addition, it is an instrument of supervision which gives parliamentarians « powers of investigation of judicial authorities which are not reserved exclusively», and everyone is expected to have a huge sense of responsibility. Mrs. Members, over the past few years, parliamentary committees of inquiry have enabled us to collect valuable documentary and witness collections, to ascertain facts and to constitute even the reputable stock exchanges of Portuguese parliamentaryism. So it was in various matters, no matter how sensitive they were, and so it will be again, whenever this appears to be just and necessary. The initiative brought by the archdiocese hand of the Party comes, configures the exact denial of this practice,... [[CH protests.]] ... an act of mere trivialization of the parliamentary inquiry, which no longer aims to weaken the democratic system, of which they proudly call themselves opponents.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u47	April 25th, always!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u48	We take care to save lives, we unite Parliament in this effort, but Mr Ventura, leader of the Arrival, is talking about visas and instruction manuals in mandarin. These are not our priorities, that is not how we protect Portuguese and their health.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u49	No, no! Your priority is money!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u50	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because this was essential, and in the absence of another legally enabling framework on 18 March 2020, this House discussed and adopted Resolution No 15 -A / 2020, by which it authorized the President of the Republic to declare the state of emergency. It is worth recalling that the effects of this declaration could not limit, and did not limit, the right to life and that, on the contrary, we protect freedom of conscience and religion, freedom of expression and information. But it is also worth remembering that Mr Ventura voted in favour of the resolution, as has already been mentioned here, and at the time it did not seem to have any doubts about it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no one respects anyone who does not respect himself, and Parliament has the duty and obligation to respect itself. We fulfilled our function when the Assembly of the Republic approved and created, on the initiative of the PS and the CDS, what was a possible monitoring committee... [[CH protests.]] ... and that enabled all those who wanted to have an active role in the design of responses, of government trade unionism and the various health, economic and social entities, who were being involved. He allowed everyone, but for most reasons, it's not for VV. Ex. We understand why: it was 428 working days, of close cooperation with the President of the Assembly of the Republic, with the Health, Economic and Labour Committees, and with all the others. Allow me, moreover, Mr President, to tell you to cooperate with the Arrival, to play the game of the Arrival, is to empty the standing committees of this House. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] And that's what Mr. Member, inadvertently, I want to believe, is doing, but that's not what the Socialist Party will do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the House today demand, but they were absent at the moment when they could make a difference. Don't miss the opportunity to make noise by sacrificing your work. The PS Parliamentary Group will vote negatively on this initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u51	Oh, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u52	... to the extent that its approval, as mentioned, will only contribute to undermining the credibility of parliamentary institutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u53	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u54	We know that the arrival will once again writh with the apparatus. You will call shame, as is your routine quanagio...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u55	Yeah, it's...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u56	And from now on, in the early hours of watching a member of your bench escape to the fastest house you have available, we want to say to this House: crying shame is when we have - and it is difficult to say this, but it must be said - to endure the humanist hardship of a Member who claims that a woman who has become pregnant, by reason of a violation, must be forced to maintain her pregnancy to the end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u57	Show the others from the Gate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u58	Shame is to witness the cruelty against an author who claims that homosexuality is a whim that can be tolerated, since it is locked in four walls! May you never miss your voice, that we will never want to take it away, because it is even the greatest instrument for all Portuguese to know the moral misery of your agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For some, arriving may one day be the key to access to power. For us, they will definitely not pass! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u59	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u60	You have a request for clarification, but you do not have time to answer. I ask Mr Ventura whether, under these conditions, he wants to maintain the request for clarification, which is a way of making an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u61	Mr President, before making the request for clarification to Mr André Pinotes Batista, I will say the following: I have heard a lot of things in this House, many, but listen to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares talk about corruption and say that Jair Bolsonaro is a corrupt candidate and that, therefore, we had to be careful,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u62	It is and you support it! [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u63	... when the candidate they supported was arrested in a corruption squad, if it wasn't to cry, it was to laugh! [[Congrats from the CH.]] That mini-party, I repeat, that mini-party says that the Brazilian candidate the President, and current President of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro, is corrupt, when the supporting candidate has, Mr. Deputy, not one, neither two, neither five, nor 10, but 26 corruption processes, in which 10 of them went out for procedural errors! Mr. Deputies, you cover yourself with shame and you disappear from this House, which is the best thing you do. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[BE's protests.]] On corruption, the word Robles is not here, so I will truly pass on to the Socialist Party, to discuss this, and then Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares goes to Brazil and he will see, with his eyes, what is Brazilian corruption—from Lula da Silva. Mr André Pinotes Batista says that the PS is proud to be this brake that the arrival may one day be a government and, in the middle of this, he has taken advantage not to speak of corruption in the middle of the hedge-19, because you are not interested—in fact, you are never interested in talking about it—but to talk about positions on abortion and homosexuality. We already know what the PS wants. The PS wants everything less to investigate and we're now going to figure out why, we're starting, every day, to understand a little bit why. What you did not say, and you should have said, is whether or not you are in favour and whether or not you understand that there are 88 % of contracts that have not been inspected! [[Oh, yes!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u64	Why aren't the contracts on the BASE Portal? Oh, my God! Mr President, stop lying about homosexuality and abortion and respond to corruption, which is what people at home want to know. Instead of going there to the rostrum make beautiful proclamations, as you are very agile to do,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u65	We have the same school!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u66	...I will ask you about the following: 2000 million is the money that the Portuguese have spent — the same Portuguese people who pay their wages and mine — on contracts that are not published, that have not been supervised and that the Court of Auditors has already said that they are wrong and have been poorly regulated, but the PS is here talking about homosexuality! This looks like a joke! If it wasn't funny, if this was in a real country, they would call it to attention and say: "Mr. Member, this is not to play! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We're talking about millions of Portuguese, millions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u67	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u68	And what you are doing is talking about April 25, the brake, the PSD and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u69	You should talk about the Barrier contracts with Unilabs!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u70	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u71	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, this is very simple to realize: Europe is already doing this research, several parliaments across Europe are doing this research, and it is not ashamed of television cameras. Today, the PS has only to answer this: will it accept transparency in contracts that were made by your government or will it not accept?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u72	Oh! Transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u73	If you don't accept it, it takes the consequences. That's all. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u74	To reply, Mr. André Batista has the floor. The Bureau is informed that the PS has 39 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u75	Mr President, in a synthetic way and not imprisoning me in this tremendous temptation that Mr Ventura has, as a grate — the bird and not the adjective — to run after everything that is neo-fascist in the world, I would like to say to you the following: the Socialist Party has no problem with transparency. What we respect is the separation of powers, institutions and the democratic state. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] The honourable Member has no role to play in replacing the Constitutional Court ( CT ), as long as this gives him another newspaper breakdown. I know your school, Mr. Deputies, I understand your motivation, but let me ask you: what part have you not yet understood? Did we spend millions of euros? We spent. Did we spend a lot of hours? Yes, I have looked at Mrs Marta Tepido and I want to say to her: I am very proud, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is very proud. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have spent the money that was needed to save lives, and that, Mr President, there is no media agenda that replaces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u76	Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u77	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau. Today, the Socialist Party had time, why? It's just to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u78	It was the government who gave up...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u79	So, Mr. President, I'm sorry, but if it was the government that gave up one minute, we should have been...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u80	You can ask that question without this primary teacher's air, inviting the student to answer. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] It is very simple: the government has spent one minute of its time with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u81	But we would have to be informed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u82	I wasn't informed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u83	The plenary was not informed. You have to report there was a time transfer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u84	The request for clarification was not to be clarified! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u85	It is the President of the Assembly of the Republic who is unable to have a multi-voice conversation — my inability. I believe that I have answered the question that Mr Pedro Pinto has put, therefore, we continue. Now, to speak on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretaries of State: When the country was confronted with the curvature 19 pandemic, serious structural problems were evidenced and others worsened. The CFP had been struggling for a long time for these problems to be solved. therefore the confirmation of how important is the role of workers, those who have not been confined, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have allowed them to arrive at our home, at our table, the essential goods for us to continue our lives, those who are, in fact, the centrality of our society. Mrs. Members, the covid-19 also highlighted the role of public services, in particular the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u88	... and of the health professionals, to whom everyone beats palms, but to whom, when they need us, we will turn our backs, as will still be expected to happen today to nurses, who fight for the accounting of their points for progression in careers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u89	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u90	I am also referring to the importance of national production, Mr. Members, as regards food, food sovereignty, the production of medicines, the production of personal protective equipment, which we were completely unprotected from. We also pointed out how necessary it is to value the internal market as a fundamental element of the country's economic and social development. The need for public control of strategic sectors has also been highlighted. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, say what they say, what separates us is obvious, but today we would not have TAP if it had not been nationalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u91	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u92	Other issues have also been evident, particularly with regard to our national sovereignty, as a result of the European Union ( EU ) taxes, which in fact removes from us what we could determine in particular in budgetary terms. I refer to the impositions of the PECs ( Stability and Growth Pacts) of the troikas, all of them, and even the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan), which many have called bazouca, but which did not pass a dry powder shot. Today, these words are implemented not where we understand that they are needed, but where you in the European Union decide what it is to apply in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u93	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u94	We can therefore say that we have always needed a path that went through the definition of criteria, to ensure security in the most diverse activities, so that we can continue, in particular, through public health. Of course, there is concern about the causes, consequences and results of the measures which have been implemented in the context of covid-19 and which need to be monitored. We understand that the supervisory powers of the government's activity are not hindered by the absence of a possible commission of inquiry. In fact, we are not faced with the lack of exercise of the powers of intervention by Parliament, despite the cowardship or the fact that there has been a cover. We need to take measures to respond to the structural problems, to those which have worsened it, and in this sense we do not think that the absence of a possible committee of inquiry is an objective impediment to the scrutiny and supervision we must exercise, much less to find and implement necessary measures. I would just like to remind you that covid-19 is transversal to many of the parliamentary committees, particularly to the Health Committee, and I would like to tell you that the parliamentary subcommittee on global health has already been set up here. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we really want to say is that we do not lack tools and means, we want to have the political will to solve people's problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u95	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, good morning to all. It is not at stake either the importance of the Covid-19 pandemic or the importance of instruments such as a parliamentary commission of inquiry or the very work which Parliament, with or without parliamentary committees of inquiry, develops scrutiny of government action. What is at stake is the adequacy of the instrument intended by the proposer to what we are assessing, i.e. whether Portuguese society and Parliament in particular have the instruments needed to know what needs to be known. And the answer is that it is not through a parliamentary committee of inquiry that we can know more, that is, at the moment research on this subject is not a particular difficulty or complexity in the specialty which requires a committee beyond those which Parliament already has. The first proposer of this parliamentary inquiry is, now too, and I congratulate you on that, President of the Parliamentary Group of Friends of Portugal-Hungary. I'll give you some data... [[CH protests.]] ... for your inquisitive spirit or perhaps should say inquisitive: Portugal, 94 % of people vaccinated at least one dose; Hungary, 66 %; in relation to cases, in Portugal, twice the people of Hungary ; as for deaths, it was also twice the number in Hungary than in Portugal, which is a country with the same size. Regarding the state of emergency in Portugal, there is no, but, in Hungary, there is never more. I also ask what are the rights of the opposition in the Hungarian Parliament in relation to the committees of inquiry. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u97	What about Venezuela? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u98	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these 14 seconds have unfortunately come to stress the perfect political symbiosis that occurs in this Parliament between the incoming Parliamentary Group and the PS Parliamentary Group. [[PS protests.]] Your trivialization, hyperbole and exaggeration enable the PS to systematically escape its responsibilities. They have just announced that they will vote against this parliamentary committee further. [[PS protests.]] Mr André Pinotes Batista, Mrs Susana Amador, is your name that is at the end of the report of the last committee to follow up the vault, where you said it was necessary to continue this follow-up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u101	There are permanent specialized commissions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u102	It was necessary to continue the follow-up, and what changed? They didn't have an absolute majority and now they have. Nothing else will be under scrutiny. If this matter of government behaviour in relation to the pandemic does not deserve a committee of inquiry, frankly, I do not know what is ever to deserve an inquiry committee in this Parliament. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u103	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. State Secretary for Health Promotion, Margarida Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the pandemic of covid-19 was an unexpected event, it was an absolutely unimaginable challenge, a few years ago, for all health systems in the world. No country was prepared to respond to something like this pandemic. It was remarkable and, above all, had definitive marks for many of our fellow citizens, either because they are no longer here today or because, in fact, there have been serious problems at all levels — social, mental, emotional — all we can imagine. But with the decisions taken at all levels, it was possible to respond in a way that I am very proud to be here today to defend. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Everyone will remember, no doubt, the images we saw when the great numbers had not yet reached our country, they all remember what we saw on television, the terror we were waiting for.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u105	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u106	I was a health professional at that time...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u107	It's still there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u108	I am still, but at the time I exercised, and if, on the one hand, it was a challenge that any professional, in my place, wanted to face — understand, I am an infectiousist — what I saw was terrifying and, in the face of such uncertainty, I have a great admiration for what we were able to do,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... to decide, to implement, in the face of uncertainty which, in fact, was unimaginable and whose dimension exceeded us all. Many measures were taken at all levels, to control the transmission of the virus, to protect those we quickly — because we were all very careful — we realized that they were in a situation of much greater vulnerability, and one of our priorities was to protect the most vulnerable. We created legal, logistical, organizational, technical and scientific mechanisms to be able to respond in the best way with the evidence that has accumulated daily, and many things have been contradicted below. So we've been learning every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u109	What about the contracts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u110	Transparency could also be ensured. Mechanisms — the most varied — were created to ensure transparency, reports were created, forums for discussion even with the National Scientific and Technological System. We have constantly put our opinions and decisions at the scrutiny of all those who could, because they were best prepared, respond. So we may have several attempts here to rewrite the story, but this is a heavy story, which was obviously very difficult, but we are very proud of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u111	There's no doubt about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u112	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was possible, along this path and this learning, to mitigate the best that we have achieved the effects of this terrible infection, this terrible pandemic, and we have learned many things. It was possible to understand the people's adherence to the measures we have implemented, it was possible to strengthen European solidarity and have mechanisms today, and to learn from what has happened, so that we can be better prepared.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u113	What about the contracts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u114	What we have done is in fact a lot of lessons and I am used to learning in these processes with lessons, to implement better and better solutions. And that's what we're gonna do. We are taking lessons every day and we will learn a lot more and we will be strengthened. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u115	To close the debate, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and the Secretary of State : Don't hurt what I'm going to say,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u117	Then don't say!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u118	... and, Mr President, I also ask you for this verbal tolerance, but I think what we just saw is a bit of a cartoon. The Secretary of State seemed to be in the church, making an act of contrition, honestly.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u119	Church is with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u120	We heard her say "I'm very sorry to everyone, we gave our best, now knock a little with my hand on my chest and I'm going to try to pass through here through the raindrops and disappear without anyone talking about it, and I'm sorry."
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u121	That's what he needed, blasphemy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u122	Mr Secretary of State, I shall read to you what is not the opinion of the State party nor of the PSD, nor of the PS, is the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has found nine contracts — it has found, you see, it has found, they were in the middle — worth EUR 26 million to buy intensive care material that was not published on any state base. They were not published on any state base!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u123	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u124	He received information on 17 contracts of shared services worth EUR 40 million, but more than half — nine contracts — in the amount of EUR 26 million, were not published on any portal, had not been published on the BASE Portal and were in flagrant violation of the rules set out in the decree which the Government itself approved on the exceptional public procurement regime. Madam Secretary of State, we can all say that we are on the side of health professionals—and we are! — we can all say that it was very hard to take with the pandemic — and it was! — We can hit the ex-Minister Marta Fear, we can cry with each other, hug each other and say that we are all the best friends in the world, but this is given! It's numbers, it's Portuguese money! It's money that's ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u126	It's not trust talk, it's money!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u127	They're lives!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u128	It's money the Portuguese pay with taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u129	They're lives!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u130	What is left of this debate, Mr President, is that there are the parliamentary groups, such as the Liberal Initiative and the Left Block, who know that this is the research that must be done, but they are ashamed to assume, because it was the one who worked to do this committee of inquiry. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's the truth. This is part of the parliamentary board and then there are the others, who actually want to talk about everything but really investigate where the taxpayers' money was, where millions were spent saying they were saving lives. [[L. Protests.]] But while they were actually saving some lives, other lives were also saved, which were their own lives, while some money was diverted. That's the truth. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And these are the usual ones, who never want to investigate anything and who already know who they are, because every day we hear about them in newspapers and everywhere. We know why they don't want to investigate, but we're not gonna stop doing it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u131	Make a complaint to the D.A.!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u132	Mr. President, I will finish. Finally, Mr Rui Tavares, I know that he always likes to talk about anything less than what really matters, which is the real research where the taxpayers' money runs from. [[L. Protests.]] But I am grateful to you for coming here once again to speak of Hungary. It looks like your friends from the Left Block talking about corruption in Brazil, pointing this to President Jair Bolsonaro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u133	Former President!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u134	I will just tell you this, Mr. honourable Member : while you like to go to Cuba, to North Korea, to China and to countries that are your friends, Hungary had the greatest economic growth of the European Union in 2021. [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u135	Congratulations! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u136	You have to learn to see numbers. While the country with the highest birth in the European Union, the country with the most economic growth of the European Union grew...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u137	Why is the state of emergency not over yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u138	Look, Mr. Member, while there was only one country of the European Union...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u139	Why is the state of emergency not over yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u140	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u141	I said that while there was only one European Union country that dropped taxes on numerous families, the government that Mr. Deputies supports, and continues to approve, increased taxes on families in Portugal. That's the difference! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[L. Protests.]] That is the difference, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u142	Why is the state of emergency not over yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u143	That is why, Mr. Member, that, immersed in a group of the Socialist Party,... [[L. Protests.]] That's why... [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u144	Shut up, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u145	Go to Hungary!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u146	Why is the state of emergency not over yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Tavares, I remember you saying a little while ago that one thing is to do away...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u148	It's a separate part! It's the real part!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u149	Take it easy, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u150	Mr Rui Tavares, one thing is doing away with something else is constantly interrupting the speaker who is in the use of the word and that second thing is not regiment. Mr. André Ventura, exactly 1 minute ago and 40 seconds ago, had promised to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u151	I'm really gonna finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u152	Pedro Pinto is not counting time now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u153	Then finish it, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u154	That is why, Mr Rui Tavares, who, with Hungary growing, with the taxes to be dropped and the birth rate to rise, in the middle of the Socialist Party group and looking here, the Member is only one and will disappear, and this is the third largest party in Portugal and will continue to grow. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u155	We thus end the first item on the agenda and move on to the second one, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 360 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prohibits phantom flights from or to Portugal, 361 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Introduction of restrictions and restrictions on landing and take-off of private jets in national territory, 362 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prohibition of the occurrence of night civil flights, except for emergency landings or other compelling reasons and 356 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Restricts night flights, except for force majeure, by amending the General Regulation on Noise and Decree-Law No 293 / 2003 of 19 November, together with Resolution Projects Nos 251 / XV / 1. a ( L) — By safeguarding rest and well-being: against night flights in Lisbon, 288 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the end of night flights, by the right to rest and well-being of populations and 291 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government develop a fee on private jet flights. To present the Bills of the Left Block we already have in the rostrum our dear Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u156	Honey? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u157	They're all loved ones.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u158	Not everyone, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u159	Our dear, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u160	I'm proud of you, you have no doubt. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The aviation sector has a huge impact on our societies — in the environment, by the giant environmental footprint, in the economy, by the investment that involves, in quality of life, by noise and costs in public health. Let us look at our national reality: we have the country's main overloaded airport, because instead of focusing on the services essential to people's travels, it is wasted on having flights without passengers or responding to the wishes of the super rich. And that's what you have to change. Let's start with flights in private jets. This capricho of the super-rich has a huge environmental cost. The data collected indicate that a private jet trip is 10 times more intensive in energy than in a commercial plane and 50 times more intensive than in a train. A single four-hour flight in a private jet produces as many greenhouse gas emissions as those produced by a person on average worldwide in a whole year. at this time, when the Portuguese Government and the European Union ask for sacrifices and particimony in the use of energy to the populations, the super-polluent jets of the super-rich are exempt from any limit to pollution and this is unacceptable. at a time when the world has to respond to the scourge of climate change, the super-rich cannot have a privilege of superpollution. And it is not the idea of the polluter-payer that solves this issue, as proposed by the NAP and accepted the government. Taxation is useless to reduce pollution of private jets. For those with billions of euros, it is no longer a few hundred euros that ceases to use a private jet. The question is whether we accept the model of inequality, where to a few super rich everything is allowed, with a gigantic impact on the planet and on people with less incomes, who suffer the most intense impacts of climate change. And our answer is clear: we do not accept. But there are more absurd environmental costs in the aviation sector, and one of them is the reality of ghost flights. Fantasm flights are fake flights, with empty planes, or almost without passengers, so that carriers guarantee slots at the most congested airports. However, the environmental impact on the whole line makes these trips a completely irrational phenomenon. Data from the National Civil Aviation Authority ( ANAC ) show that, between October and December 2021, in just three months, there were 375 flights with a occupancy rate of 10 % or less between take-offs and landings in Portugal. In the specific case of a German company, Lufthansa, speaks of thousands of phantom flights last winter. This is because, after the liberalisation of the European airspace, the slots, the so-called flight slots, are obliged to the rule of "use or lose it" and therefore there is competition for absurdity. In times of low flight intensity, the historical distribution of airport slots should be taken into account and maintained. And that is exactly our proposal, in defense of the environment and the planet. In addition to the obvious and direct environmental costs, it is in this irrational management that then explains some of the overcrowding of airports. And this leads to more costs for populations, with pressure for more flights, many of them performed in night space. This is our third proposal: to prohibit night flights in Portugal, defending the quality of life of populations and public health, because, as already studied, there is a direct relationship between this night break created by flights and the loss of quality of life and the spread of various diseases, including cardiovascular diseases. These are our proposals: to defend the environment and the planet, to defend the quality of life of the populations. The Left Block defends greater rationality in the management of the aviation sector, defending people from the whims of the super-rich and the wild market, and ensuring that the populations are protected from night flights. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u161	We immediately passed the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, to present Bill No. 356 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Restricts the performance of night flights, except for force majeure, by amending the General Regulation on Noise and Decree-Law No 293/2003 of 19 November.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not, unfortunately, a new theme in this Assembly of the Republic. The nights of October and November, in Lisbon and in Loures, were particularly noisy, because the government decided to allow night flights, in an extraordinary way, between midnight and 2 o'clock in the morning and between 5 and 6 o'clock in the morning, thus jeopardizing the well-being and health of the populations of these municipalities. Each year, it is seen that more than 20 000 night flights, between 23 and 7 hours in the morning, are over these cities and affect more than 150 000 people. These flights not only aggravate air pollution and violate the noise limits imposed by existing legislation, but also in areas such as Campo Grande, are far above the reference values set by the World Health Organization. Noise is a serious disturbance in the quality of life of the populations, it is causing cardiovascular diseases, stress, contributes to the reduction of the learning capacity of children and to the cognitive deficit of adults, among many other disorders and pathologies. Today, for the sake of the environment, of our planet and, above all, for the well-being of the people, we propose the end of night flights at national airports, ensuring that exceptional flights — such as medical or humanitarian emergency flights — can continue to take place and with the guarantee of transparency about noise at national airports, with the disclosure of a report with the same information. What we propose already prevails in European cities such as Luxembourg, Berlin, Zurich, Munich, Stuttgart or Frankfurt. The aim is to defend the right to rest, the quality of life of the populations and to block the point of non-return with regard to greenhouse gas emissions. The ANMP itself ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) supports this initiative. We therefore hope that there will be a willingness to carry out this debate, in the field of expertise, so that concrete solutions, once and for all, will be studied in depth, but, above all, implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u163	We shall immediately give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free, to present draft resolutions Nos 251 / XV / 1. a ( L) — By safeguarding rest and well-being: against night flights in Lisbon and 291 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government develop a fee on private jet flights. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The two major causes of damage to public health in environmental terms are, firstly, air pollution and, secondly, noise. The airport in Lisbon is an aggravating factor of both these causes in the city of Lisbon, in the neighbouring municipalities and in our metropolitan area. In particular, noise during the night and during sleep hours of most people has an impact not only on public health but also on the productivity and learning of children and young people who walk in school. In Lisbon, at least hundreds of thousands of people suffer an impact on health, productivity and learning because of the enormous proximity of our airport. From 2004 onwards, by a government portal there should be no more than 91 flights per week. This office was already very little respected at the time. Last July, the ZERO association accounted for 140 flights during the week. The government, in the face of a situation that was bad, decided to do the worst, allowing, through a port of call, that, in October and November, there were 41 nights of extra flights. Soon in the first week there were at least 240 night flights. This is a clearly unsustainable situation and what the Free defends, through its draft resolution, is very simple: that the law is respected, at least the 2004 gate, which are strongly limited or suspended flights between midnight and 6 hours in the morning and that there are mitigating factors for flights in previous times. Also through our Resolution Project No. 291 / XV / 1. a, the Book recommends that the Government develop a fee on private jet flights. Recently, in the context of the budgetary discussion process, a rate has been adopted by the NAP, which is in the right direction, but which, for us, is not ambitious enough to counter all the damage caused by these flights when they have passengers, or when they do not have them — as is remembered here by the Left Block — or when the owner of a private jet decides to do so by crossing the Atlantic in order to seek, for example, an pet. It is obviously an abuse of the health and well-being of the rest of the society to which it needs to be paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u165	To present draft resolution No 288 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), I give the floor to Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject here is of the greatest importance. Night flights and associated noise pollution disturb the right to rest and have impacts on the quality of life of those who study, live or work in areas affected by noise. The problem of night flights and the impact that they have on populations, including noise pollution, is a problem whose gravity is much greater because we have an airport in the city of Lisbon. Therefore, for the PCP, this discussion is inseparable from the discussion on the new airport of Lisbon and on the submission of PS and PSD governments to the interests of Vinci, since the ruinous privatization of ANA — Airports of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u168	Vinci does everything to continue in Portela and the governments do nothing to counter the interests of Vinci, even when it questions the well-being of the people, the future of TAP and even the development of the national economy. The PCP project under discussion does not separate problems with night flights from its causes or its basic solutions. In addition to the prohibitions and limitations on night flights, these solutions go through the fulfilment of the ANA's obligations to minimise the impact of noise, in particular in the infrastructure reclassification works surrounding Humberto Delgado Airport ; by compliance with the decision already taken and evaluated by experts, of the phased construction of the new Lisbon airport in the Alcochete Shooting Camp, in compliance with the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 13 / 2008 of 22 January, as far as this is not in the interests of Vinci ; and rather, by the public control of ANA, by furnishing the private management that would be contrary to national interest in this as in other matters, and by placing the management of airports at the service of sovereignty and national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u170	As long as these measures are not taken, the situation will continue to be problematic in the noise affecting the populations of Lisbon, Loures, Odivelas and some areas of the south bank of the Tejo, and that some wanted, and still want, to take also to the populations of the Seixal, the Barreiro, the Moita or the Montijo. It will continue to be problematic because of the failure to comply with the restrictions imposed by law, the failure to comply with investments to minimize impacts, the continued blackmail of Vinci on the country and the government's announcement to the interests of multinationals. The PS and PSD agreements, like this, now of 14 October, continue to postpone what has long been decided and that means once again the convergence of PS and PSD with Vinci's interests and against national interest. It will also continue to be marked by a lack of control and supervision, whose political responsibility is above all that of the Government, which has legal instruments such as Decree-Law No 293/2003 of 19 November 2003, but which does nothing to solve this problem of night flights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u171	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u172	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must comply with the law in force. It is necessary to prohibit flights between midnight and 6 o'clock in the morning and to limit aircraft operations between 23 and midnight and between 6 and 7 o'clock in the morning. But in order to respect the rest of the population and to prioritize the interests of the country, it is also necessary to confront Vinci with the failures in its obligations and to stop worshipfully accepting the blackmail that this multinational continues to exercise over the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u173	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u174	It's not Marques!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u175	It's Duarte Alves!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u176	We now turn to the speeches of the other parliamentary groups. The Members are registered. Deputies António Prôa, by PSD, Carlos Guimarães Pinto, by the Liberal Initiative, Rui Afonso, by the Arrival, and Hugo Costa, by PS. We give the floor immediately to Mr António Prôa, by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The noise caused by the activity of Humberto Delgado Airport affects about 380 000 people and is exposed, with values far above the limits permitted by law, more than 50 000 people. The effect of exposure to excessive noise affects human health, with consequences such as sleep disturbances, decreased concentration capacity, decreased performance at work or at school, stress, tiredness or negative effects on the cardiovascular system. The occurrence of night flights at Humberto Delgado Airport is particularly penalizing for the quality of life of many thousands of citizens and aggravated by the violation of the limits permitted by law. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, night flights are a problem because Lisbon airport is within the city and has exceeded the reasonable traffic limit. Today there has to be a statement: if the government had conducted the decision-making process on the new airport without the mess we know, we would not have this problem. [[PSD applause.]] On this issue, the PSD has put itself on the side of the solution and we now hope that the new airport in Lisbon will finally become a reality. But today, the negligence of public institutions must also be denounced. The law provides for an action plan to reduce noise in large airport infrastructures. The plan exists for Humberto Delgado Airport and was approved by the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) to be executed by ANA. However, this instrument is to be implemented, in particular the programme of intervention in more sensitive buildings, such as hospitals and schools, which should have already been completed, but which has not yet been initiated. In the face of this non-compliance, nothing was done by APA or by the government. The State is failing to safeguard the interests of citizens. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not having a new airport, the topic of night flights is too serious and complex to be treated simplistically, without weighing all the implications. Today's legislative initiatives are essentially converging towards the prohibition of night flights at Humberto Delgado Airport. The total prohibition of night flights would be the ideal solution. Unfortunately, it is not the responsible solution. The evaluation of this problem, in order to be responsible, must take into account other factors, such as the economic impact of the measure. In other words, airport activity is generating wealth and jobs from which populations also benefit. Some initiatives defend other restrictions, hostages of ideological prejudices. We therefore reject the demagogy of the ban on private jets and the precipitation of the ban on so-called ghost flights, which cannot be applied. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, every day that passes — if you want, every night that passes — thousands of people suffer the effects of the excessive noise caused by the airport activity in Lisbon. The PSD is determined not to allow this problem to continue to drag without a solution that safeguards the right to well-being of populations. But we want to do so responsibly. First, the law must be complied with in restrictions on airport operations during the night. It hasn't been. We therefore support a request for the government's hearing. Secondly, planning must be implemented. The noise management and noise reduction action plan for Humberto Delgado Airport is about to be implemented. For this purpose, the PSD has entered a request for hearing ANA and APA. Thirdly, the Government revealed a report on the assessment of night traffic a few days ago. To analyze it, the PSD presented a request for the hearing of the study leader. These are the steps we consider necessary before legislative amendments. We must act, but with responsibility, without causing more damage than those we intend to solve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u178	Before we continue the work, I would like to apologize to Mr Duarte Alves for the mistaken invocation of his name. You want to excuse me. We now turn to intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, and Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The externalities caused by night flights are our concern, as are a concern of the other parliamentary groups. No one should be harmed in their health and rest because we have an airport in the city centre. We cannot, however, give in to legislative facilitations that either add nothing or then bring more costs than benefits. In the Liberal Initiative, we are not content with support for simple bans, however good they seem. We prefer to find solutions that can really solve everyone's problems. For example, we could choose to allow only aeroplane flights with noise reduction technology; we could choose to demand the use of take-off and landing routes that minimize the impact on populations; and we could even study the establishment of flight methodologies that minimize noise. All are measures that protect the interests of the people while safeguarding the economic interest of these flights. We can therefore have a constructive discussion that avoids the impact of EUR 600 million, which appears in the report you could read, a report that also talks about the possibility of these prohibitions leading to the loss of 900 000 passengers. We do not resign ourselves to a mentality that always chooses to impose prohibitions before making a cost-benefit analysis, an impact analysis. In the IL, we will always defend balanced solutions that allow for the maintenance of growth and quality of life. We do not want people to have their sleep and their rest interrupted, either by noisy planes out of hours, or by knowing that they do not have a job waiting for them when they wake up. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u180	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Afonso of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has allocated a set of aviation initiatives, and initiatives relating to ghost flights and private jets make it clear that the Block has no knowledge of these matters. in an initiative it explicitly says that it does not know the number of phantom flights that occur in Portugal, citing some data from airports in other countries. In the other initiative, it reveals that private jets are so many that they congest the Humberto Delgado Airport, without however mentioning at any time what the number of private jets and their real impact on air traffic, the environment and the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u183	As far as night flights are concerned, we cannot agree with a widespread ban on their occurrence. It is true that the noise produced by aircraft has an impact on the well-being of the populations adjacent to the airports. However, we cannot ignore the importance that these flights can represent for the Portuguese economy and for the number of jobs it provides. In the period prior to the pandemic, only the tourism sector employed directly and indirectly more than 1 million people, and in 2021 this value decreased to about 900 000. In 2019, Portugal reached the passenger record by air, exceeding 70 million. With the pandemic, this value suffered an abrupt fall, and in 2021 it was around 37 million passengers, however, in the second quarter of this year, the number of passengers moved by national airports almost quadrupled against the same period.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u185	In accumulated terms, from January to September 2022, tourist revenues amounted to almost EUR 17 billion. Therefore, any restrictions on air transport should not be adopted lightly and indiscriminately.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u187	The projects under discussion today ignore the fact that not all airports in Portugal are in the centre of cities and, for this reason, there are differentiated impacts on the nearby populations. In addition, the simple abolition of such flights does not necessarily ensure a reduction in CO2 emissions. The flights that do not take place during the night may have to be transferred to other times, thus exacerbating air congestion, which in turn implies that aircraft are kept flying longer before they are allowed to land, with consequent increase in emissions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u189	In addition, increased traffic also increases the risks of air safety. The situation will necessarily be more critical in Lisbon due to the location of the airport and subsequent delays attributed to this government in the decision to build the new airport. It is noted that the State has already spent more than 70 million euros on studies and consultants to choose the new airport location, and we continue without knowing where it will be located or when it will be completed and operational. Lisbon urgently needs a solution for airport traffic. The ability of Humberto Delgado Airport is exhausted and, systematically, we watch episodes of rupture that cause serious embarrassment to travellers, either by delays in flights or logistics on land, or by the long queues of waiting to pass the controls, adding to all this the worst publicity for tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u191	It is therefore urgent to speed up the construction process of the new airport, as well as to start the studies necessary to understand the impact of night flights on the populations adjacent to the airports and to understand the economic losses of possible cancellation of flights at night. Only after assessing all these factors should there be a reflection and decision-making in this area. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u192	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diplomas discussed today relate to three themes: the so-called "fantom flights", the night flights and the limitation of flights in private jets. It is a mixture of themes that at nothing leads to the clarification of people, and at certain points even contradictory. thus, part of the strategy of those who have scheduled this debate seems simple to perceive: to launch confusion and demagogy, essentially as a way of not wanting to find out that the problem of night flights in Lisbon, theme that led to this schedule, is certainly related to the systematic and historical boycott, either to the left or to the right of the PS, from the solution of a new airport to Lisbon. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u194	Let's be honest. Mixing flights that, on the company's option, did not exist, being operationally impossible to decouple if it was for lack of passengers or just to maintain what we call slots, with a fair debate for the quality of life and the right to rest of people is, at least, ingenious, as they call the pompous name "ghost" to flights that have only not been carried out. The proposal on the table completely violates the European regulations of the sector. [[BE's protests.]] Trying to ban private jets from operating in our country, without making the accounting of the economic, social and employment impact, and not explain that nothing has to do with the other issues—until it is not related to the landing site—and, as it is said popularly, mixing garlic with bugs, is just bringing the debate completely different themes. Let's be clear! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u195	We must, of course, work for private jets to reduce the environmental impact, but this ban on other studies is totally disproportionate. In addition, it should be recalled that a tax on private jets has been approved in the State budget. With regard to the topic of night flights, particularly at Humberto Delgado Airport, since some diplomas without meaning extend their object to all airports and aerodromes, whether or not in urban areas, the first word of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is an understanding for citizens who are affected by their right to rest by the existence of flights between midnight and 6 o'clock in the morning. It is also important to recall that the extraordinary port of call—which certainly led to many of these initiatives, some already withdrawn such as that of the NAP—was linked to the modernisation of the NAV Air Traffic System (Aerial Navigation of Portugal) and, contrary to what the spirit of the initiatives made believe, the latter would only have been in force until 25 November, fulfilling the Government's commitment not to be a definitive solution, even though some initiatives still seek to revoke a port which is no longer in force. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On this subject, in the last Parliament, there was an important work of hearings, dialogue and debate in Parliament, in addition to the government having set up a working group which has carried out an important report, which was completed last summer and which presented several scenarios, options and costs associated with these scenarios. The decision must always be as informed as possible. It would be good for Parliament to hold this discussion on the basis of that information. thus, the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group will enable the debate in the specialty of those diplomas, which will go down to the Commission without a vote, and the Socialist Party will present solutions after there is this debate. We know from history that urban development at Lisbon airport is essentially after its construction, but, of course, they can count on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to defend the right to rest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No rounds for all Portuguese: this is the actual invoice of the non-construction of the new airport and a debate that has been dragging since 1969, the same year that man went to the moon. The economic and environmental costs of the non-decision are clear. Let us go to the facts: we cannot defend the strategic importance of the Lisbon hub, accommodate the increase in demand for the destination Portugal and at the same time defend the impossibility of any night flight. This would be impossible with the current airport infrastructure, stressing again that the period in which the number of flights was higher occurred for six weeks and has already ended in November. It is in this difficult balance that we have to find solutions. It's worth mentioning that you're flying, after all, we're talking. They are 70% of the TAP, the airline that is being operated, and flights that are essentially from destinations of important Portuguese communities such as Brazil, the United States, Canada, Angola or S. Tome. It's these flights and not others we're talking about! Flights for which we also have to play slots at airports of origin. The direct impact on TAP, according to estimates, would be up to EUR 90 million, in addition to EUR 600 million in the economy, according to the Government's study. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in dialogue with the Government, will work on concrete measures and future legislative initiatives that we want to assess, as time windows for absolute flight restriction, reduction of sound impacts through more appropriate monotorizations to night flights and improvement of track approximation routes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u196	Mr. Deputy has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u197	I'm done now, Mr. President. The Socialist Party is on the side of the people who suffer on a daily basis, but it cannot fail to reiterate that those who make airports impossible should be the first to think about the consequences of their actions. The current government and the current Prime Minister, with the commitment of the major opposition party, found the way to the construction of the new airport of Lisbon, and only there can this problem be solved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u198	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Hugo Costa, at the end of his speech, we did not understand what the PS thinks about night flights, because it understands the problems of the populations, but at the same time seems to justify, as a commercial option of TAP, the conduct of night flights. After all, do you think there should be night flights? Do you consider whether or not the law should be complied with? Do you consider whether or not the commitments of ANA Airports and Vinci should be fulfilled? Mr António Prôa, from the PSD, in his speech, gave a sponge on the responsibilities of the PSD not to advance the new airport in Lisbon. The solution was studied, it was decided since 2008 to build the new airport at the Alcochete Shooting Camp, but when you were in the government, you put a brake on that solution. Mr. Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro said the following in Portela: « The new airport is here! » And so this is the mark that the PSD ceases to drag on a decision that was already made. Now, with the PS arrangements, it will continue to protect the solution of the new Lisbon airport in Alcochete. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u200	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u201	Mr. Deputies, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u202	Mr President, as little as I have available, I would like to make an intervention, if we can say so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u203	Mr President, I do not normally give the floor when the time has come. Members have 1, 2 or 3 seconds, because, truly, you will not have time to congratulate us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u204	Mr President, this is just a small intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u205	Well, I leave to you the reasonableness of your intervention. I'd rather not give her the word. The second is yours, but from the second, the time is mine. Take a good look! [[The other parties have exceeded their time!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u206	So we do this: I'm going to give you the second one you have the most 39 seconds that were used more by the PS than the time you had. Therefore, you have to finish your intervention at the end of 40 seconds. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u207	Mr. President, thank you very much. Very briefly, I would just like to restate some rigour after the intervention of the Communist Party. Perhaps the Communist Party does not bear in mind, but it was precisely the PSD that, in an attitude of responsibility, after the government's difficulty in implementing the airport, contributed and wanted to contribute actively to finally finding a solution. Therefore, the PSD is on the side of the solution and will not let the question be dragged. With a difference: PSD makes the difference in airport implementation; PCP makes no difference. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u208	Thank you very much, Mr António Prôa. Now, yes, we are in a position to move on to the closure and, therefore, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There is a general concern in this House about the impact of night flights on sleep quality and diseases arising from this lack of sleep quality. However, of the unanimous concerns we move on to proposals that are already less unanimous, because on the right hand and the Socialist Party the solution is to leave everything exactly as it is. Let's see, are people bad? They are, but leave it as it is. Night flights hurt people's health? They do, but they leave it as it is. Is the common Portuguese prejudiced by these choices? Tell us it is enough, but leave it as it is not to touch in the interests of ANA. Could there be another way to organize the aviation sector? It could, and tells us IL that we have to be creative, but it has not put forward any proposals. Well, I imagine the creativity of the IL would be to shoot the parachute passengers, which is always quieter for those who are on the night flights! Open... Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no proposals and those who do not propose are because they want to leave everything as it is. And, whoever wants to leave everything as it is, accepts that people are affected by night flights, that people are harmed by the whims of the super rich, who have in private jets not only a form of pollution but also a way of hindering the management of the airport space, and accept that companies, in the name of a failed liberalisation of the market, continue to use ghost flights to ensure their economic interests and slots, devalue the concrete reality of the environmental disaster and the economic and social disaster that this really represents. The Socialist Party, on this situation, what it has to say to us is «we are concerned but do not move in business». What we say is that there is no sustainability without combining the economic aspect with the environmental and social aspects. Without these three concerns aligned, we have an imbalance, which is visible: we are environmentally poorer — the result of the choices of the right and of the Socialist Party; we are socially damaged — the result of the choices of the right and of the Socialist Party; we are economically worse — the result of the choices of the right and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u210	What about the budgets you approved? There were three of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u211	We do not cross our arms and therefore we have proposals to defend both the people and the environment and the economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u212	We are closing the debate on point 2 of our agenda. We now move on to the debate on point 3 which, I recall, consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 280 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government, together with the European Commission, act on the review mechanism of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, 34 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create an assembly of citizens to monitor the implementation of European funds and to ensure the participation of non-governmental environmental organisations in the National Monitoring Commission of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, 35 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government increase the information available in the Transparency portal and create a focus group with representatives of civil society to assess the improvements that may be introduced in this portal, 287 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government, in the context of the review of the RPP, which will undertake to ensure transparency on the environmental impact of the changes undertaken and consider the inclusion of an increase in funds to create an adaptation component for climate change, to ensure greater ambition in the energy and water efficiency objectives of housing, to ensure the irradiation of non-classical housing situations by 2026 and to strengthen the means for research and combating corruption and 293 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government propose a modified recovery and resilience plan to the European Commission. To initiate the debate and to present draft resolution No 280 / XV / 1. a, I give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal has always had a strange relationship with European funds. We have always given great importance to the degree of implementation of the programmes, which is high, but we have never been concerned about the real impact of the funds on our economy and on our society, which is low. We are concerned about efficiency, we have neglected effectiveness. To judge by the mediocre growth of the Portuguese economy—which today, purely and simply would not grow anything without this money coming from outside—the effectiveness of the application of the European funds has been, perhaps, a real disgrace. For many years, we have simply given thanks for the money that came from Europe, as if Portugal had not been part of it. Even more serious: European funds have caused dependence, anxiety, fever, which affects our institutions and undermines the brakes and counterweights of our democracy, in a clear example of the phenomenon called « Dutch disease ». It was good that our attitude towards European funds had changed and it was even better that we had already taken advantage of this PRR review to do so. The review of the PRR will have to take place in any way, either through the REPowerEU plan, to accommodate the update of the PRR amounts, or as proposed by the Liberal Initiative, under Article 21. the European Regulation of the Mechanism for Recovery and Resilience. Let us then take this opportunity when the European mechanism has to accommodate new realities related to inflation and energy transition to, either at the level of priorities or at the level of the timetable, redesign the PRR so as not to waste what might well be the last opportunity for Portugal to structurally change its economy. For the Liberal Initiative it is essential to ensure that the goals and objectives to be set by the PRR are, firstly, set in order to favour the business fabric and designed in order to effectively reach the real economy; secondly, that the rules and conditions of access are simplified, so that they can be understood by the generality of potential beneficiaries and to avoid the capture of the PRR by party or other clients; thirdly, that they favour the mechanisms that favour the speed of execution because in the PRR the timetable is even demanding; fourthly and lastly, they ensure that the model of scrutiny and follow-up, for which the Liberal Initiative, moreover, has actively contributed, actually works, so that money does not end in the pockets of friends with power. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, put aside for once your statistician rib and your tendency to complicate things and take advantage of this review of the PRR so that it can truly help Portugal to make the leap that it needs so much. Will you be able? [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u214	To present the NAP initiatives on this subject, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: To have just heard of excessive dependence on European funds — when we know that they are absolutely essential for ensuring the country's progress and progress — is at least a bit strange.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u216	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u217	We understand that there is, in fact, an excessive dependence, on the prospect that Portugal has once and for all to make a leap in terms of progress, and that the RPP funds have to be used, must be applied and therefore are an absolutely decisive instrument for the future of the country. It is precisely in order to correct the shortcomings of the PRR that the NAP here brings some proposals that aim, from the outset, to ensure the citizen's participation in monitoring the implementation of the European funds, but also to ensure more transparency in its implementation, as was the case with our proposal on the creation of the transparency portal. The shortcomings of the PRR are clear: from then on, in the field of climate change, the focus is, exclusively and excessively, in the climate transition and completely forgets adaptation to climate change. If Portugal is one of the countries that will be most affected by the impact of climate change — whether by rising the average level of water, desertification and drought or the scarcity of water itself — it is necessary that each euro investment in this area means an increase not only in this area of climate change control, but also in promoting a green economy and a bet on the energy transition. Today, we know that each euro investment in the green economy has a positive impact of €2 on national GDP. It is therefore clear and objective to ask ourselves that we are waiting to bet on the green economy and on a sustainable transition, which brings more jobs and also more sustainability. In terms of housing, the Habitat Access Support Programme must also eradicate, until the end of its implementation, the 4000 existing barracks. All these gaps need to be removed within the framework of the PRR renegotiation package, which the Government will start in January. Therefore, we can now clearly indicate a commitment by this House to these objectives. The funds are, in fact, absolutely essential and the proposals that the NAP brings here want more transparency, more environmental and also social, starting with housing and the eradication of the barracks, because every cent of expenditure has to go where it is due — to ensure the progress and quality of life of the people and ensure environmental commitment, and not for cases and houses as we have seen so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u218	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present the initiative for the Book.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PRR is a very important moment, not only for Portugal, but even more decisive for the European Union. If the funds of the European Union have always had a redistributive purpose, the truth is that, until now, there has been no fund based on common European debt of this size and with these objectives, and it was the pandemic crisis that ended up catalyzing its creation. There is no more important debate now than whether the European Union will have a permanent PRR, not only because the evolution of the situation on our continent, with the return of war, fully justifies it, but also because the European Union needs this instrument as a way to achieve more harmonic and cohesive growth. Portugal, in this movement, must also look at European funds in another way. It is not to say, as is often suggested here, that there are no more European funds. Germany, for example, has access to funds and therefore there will always be European funds. They are funds with more demanding co-financing rates, they are more complex funds, but they are funds that also bring more value added to our economy, and it is for that kind of funds that we must move through. The PRR therefore has this dual function: on the one hand, for the European Union, to consolidate its development, and on the other, for Portugal, so that it can use these funds as a way of making a development that it needs — not only development in terms of the added value that its economy can have, but also in its own relationship with the European Union market, which is most important to us. For this reason, we follow this initiative and we will vote in favour of it. On the other hand, we have tabled a draft resolution calling on the Government to use this moment to – with the argument that, in the meantime, we have war in Europe and also this high inflation rate – talk to the European Commission, review the objectives of the PRR and align them more permanently with those in Article 3. the Treaty on European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u220	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PRR is the perfect portrait of socialist governance, the portrait of a government that, having not carried out the repeatedly promised public investment in the last seven years, made the PRR not an instrument of transformation of the Portuguese economy, as required, but a public investment plan announced, but never carried out. Moreover, this is the indelible mark of the socialist governments: always look for the solution to national problems in the European Union rather than start the reforms that Portugal needs. For the public debt problems, it was the eurobonds; for the structural problems, we have the funds; to cope with the hideous crisis, we have the PRR. And we now demand an annual PRR, a permanent PRR, to solve what the State Budget leaves to be discovered. Furthermore, PS governance dreams of European Union money, sighs for European Union money, and saves itself only with European Union money. Therefore, it has chosen a centralised model of PRR governance, despite PSD alerts for the risks of this option, structured in a central administration without experience in implementing and monitoring applications for European funds. This is a centralised model which has excluded, by option of the PS Government, the CCDRs ( coordination and regional development committees ) and the Inter-municipal Communities ( CIM ), which are entities with extensive experience in monitoring applications for European funds. The reality, unfortunately, seems to give reason to the PSD, with the dramatically low execution rates. This is said by the Council of Public Finance, the UTAO, the European Commission, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and, if so, until Mário Centeno. António Costa, an optimist, ensures that we will achieve, i.e., we will execute more than EUR 8 billion in 2023, when our average, our history, is about EUR 3000 million per year. The future will say so, but one thing is certain: in 2023 the PS government cannot in any way invoke excuses if it fails the commitments it has made, because it has at its disposal all the instruments — I repeat, all the instruments — to meet these objectives. It has a stable majority in Parliament, has an approved State budget, has unimaginable European Union funds and has the mechanisms for simplifying public procurement at its disposal. If they fail, it is not just Mr. President of the Republic who will not forgive the government. Believe me, they'll be all Portuguese! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u222	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fatima Correia Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Recovery and Resilience Plan was approved in June 2021 by the European Commission, which characterized it as a solid plan, which will place Portugal on a path of greater growth and greater convergence with the European Union. This is a strategy based on the modernisation of the Portuguese economy, which guarantees a relationship between the whole innovation system and our companies, and which places Portugal on the front line of two very significant transitions that the country will make — in the area of digital transition and in the area of climate change. This without forgetting the great investment in social responses, in the National Health Service, in housing and forests, which will make Portugal a more robust and resilient country, leaving no one behind. It is a strategy based on six relevant pillars, which remain up-to-date and fully relevant for the country's growth and development trajectory. But it is important to see whether Portugal is achieving the goals set by the European Commission. And the truth is, it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u224	He's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u225	A little more than one year after its approval, the Portuguese State has been meeting all the goals and frameworks set by the European Commission. There was a first payment request of EUR 1, EUR 2 billion at the beginning of this year and received in May, after a positive assessment by the European Commission, and a second request submitted in September of EUR 1, EUR 8 billion for which the evaluation is expected. Are there consecutive delays in execution? The truth is, no, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the implementation of the PRR is not delayed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u226	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u227	at the end of a little more than one year, the PRR has opened 70 % of public notices and tenders, within which 58 % of applications for direct recipients of the PRR are already approved, and we still have more than EUR 1000 million already paid and already on the ground. And this is something I will re-emphasize, a little more than one year after the adoption of the Plan in the European Commission. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the implementation of the European funds requires greater rigor and transparency, requires compliance with public procedures, open competitions, competitive and selective competitions, requires time for the preparation of applications and time for their analysis by the institutions. And only then comes the time of execution and subsequent payment, and it is precisely this maturity that we have today. That is why 2023 will be a year with strong public and private investment, specifically leveraged by the PRR and European funds. That said, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also true that Portugal will have to negotiate the programming of the RPP with the European Commission. First of all, because Portugal will receive more 1, 6 billion euros in RPP grants than initially approved and more 704 million euros under REPowerEU.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u228	It's just advances!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u229	Secondly, because of the current context, which we all know, of difficulties in access to raw materials and high inflation. But this is not new either, the government has already said so. The Presidency Minister announced at the hearing at the State Budget Specialty that the Government would start negotiations with the European Commission for the review of the PRR in January and is currently developing technical work within the same renegotiation. It is clear to all that 2026 is an ambitious date for the full implementation of the RPP, especially because we are facing the greatest volume of Community funds at all times, and it is therefore essential to ensure a balance between speed and rigour, ensuring that speed will not harm rigour and scrutiny by forcing and providing the entities that manage Community funds with adequate means, as has already been done. I recall that the PRR has a governance model that allows rigorous scrutiny, either by the entities responsible for its follow-up or by any citizen, because of the transparency mechanisms associated with it. Portugal has been recognized by the European institutions as a good example in the management of European funds and, in step by step, we will continue to implement and implement the PRR, continuing a path of growth, improving social cohesion conditions and ensuring a green and digital transition for a more resilient and fairer society. Yeah, we'll be able to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u230	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me just to give a brief comment on the first speech we heard today from the Liberal Initiative, in which Mr Cotrim Figueiredo has come to accuse him of proposing too many initiatives. Mr, I must tell you that it is better to propose initiatives, because our function is to monitor the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u232	See, see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u233	... of what we have Members on our bench who, as is the case in your party, often fail hearings within the Commission, fail to listen to petitioners. Mr President, this, together with the fact that you have tabled a huge number of amendments to the budget — 26 if I do not miss my memory —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u234	Metric tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u235	...say everything and mirror the results of the polls you've had. [[Congrats from the CH.]] On the subject of the debate a month ago, the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, indicated by this Government and supported by the PS, said that the implementation rate of the PRR is "very short" of the forecast. These are the words of Mr. Governor of Banco de Portugal. In the State Budget document for 2023, the Ministry of Finance assumes and underlines a reduced rate of implementation of the RPP. However, more is involved in the management of public funds, in the management of the PRR, which this government has done and has managed. After this, it makes all the sense — all the sense! — this Government shall kneel before the European Commission and request that the implementation plan of the funds be revised, that all this mess they have done and that they finally desist from projects that cannot be carried out. They are numerous — countless! — the projects requested by the Socialist Party to be approved and which cannot be implemented. They have humility and ask for technical assistance, ask for technical help, use this mechanism because they are clearly unable to manage these funds. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u236	Mrs. Members, it is proven that this government has mismanaged, from its beginning, the entire PRR project, even by the choice it made of the former Portuguese Development Bank team — a disastrous team, a team that did not have a driver plan, which had no ideas, that had no ability to manage all this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u237	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u238	Clearly, it lasted as long as it lasted and a new team is there. I remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that these funds are and should serve for growth, for the development of the country and this is done through companies, through people and not through public procurement. You use and abuse these funds to fatten the state's dust and machine!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u240	Use the PRR as it should, contribute to the development of the country! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u241	To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The starting point for the agenda since the debate is a real problem which, unfortunately, is a chronic problem — the delay, the slowness, the difficulty in implementing public investment. Recently, this reality has been addressed in the public debate, essentially in view of the implementation of the RPP. It is natural that this is the case because of the relative weight that the PRR assumes as a whole, truly anemic, of the public investment effectively realized in Portugal. But, let us agree, this slowness, that deep insufficiency of investment is, unfortunately, a truly transversal reality, which goes far beyond the PRR. And the problem of the country's excessive dependence on Community funds, which has already been debated here, has much to say to you. On the one hand, we cannot accept that the successive multiannual financial frameworks of the European Union ignore, as they have ignored, that the so-called net contributors are, in fact, the great beneficiaries of the internal market, the great powers of the European Union, which are gaining much more than the cohesion countries. On the other hand, the public investment carried out is so loudly weak that often little more is seen beyond the Community funds, in this case, of the PRR. The country needs answers that are not only consistent with options that are registered in the PRR, as are much for there and far beyond its indisputable limits. It should be warned that the reindustrialisation of Europe cannot be achieved on account of an even greater deindustrialisation of our country. The idea of the PRR as the country's "ship of salvation" is an illusion and only confirms the degree of submission and dependence with which it must be broken. We are talking about resources, we remember, which are essentially constituted by the anticipation of future revenues that Portugal will lose later and, contrary to what has been said, ensure the direct transfer of billions of euros to the economic groups. In addition, it is nevertheless significant that the Government has increased this direct transfer from the RPP to the economic groups by more than EUR 300 million, to a total of EUR 5000 million. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the plan called "Resurrection and Resilience" is not valid by name, nor is it an end in itself. It must truly be a policy and strategic planning tool that responds to the country's problems, needs and potential. The alerts and concerns — which are relevant and must be heard — about the conditions and capacity of the structure of the State and the public sector for the effective and timely implementation of the Structural Funds must lead to a consequent response. The response is from the investment in the reconstruction of own capacities, including for strategic planning, direction and direct follow-up in the performance of functions and investments, which must be ensured by the State and the public sector. These are the fundamental issues which, with these political options, are far from having the necessary answers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u243	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to remind you that the European funds are not a burden Portugal receives by hand. They are compensation given for placing in the European project countries with very different economic structures in the same competition and in a configuration that would always benefit Germany. The structural funds are compensation for Portugal having abdicated from having an agricultural policy, having an industrial policy, having an autonomous economic policy. That's the problem. It is that without industrial policy, without economic policy, without strategic direction, the money coming from Europe almost always ends where it is not necessary. Be paying agricultural owners not to produce, be paying companies to do training that never existed. Finally, the Structural Funds and the European Funds were able to create many eccentrics in Portugal without ever touching the structure of the Portuguese economy, structurally dependent on the interests of finance and subject to profitable economic interests, which make the economy what they want, but certainly is not a productive economy capable of reindustrializing. Therefore, instead of discussing the funds, we should be discussing the strategy for the Portuguese economy, in fact, we should even be discussing whether a climate transition is even possible with the absurdity of European budgetary rules, with this dogmatic idea of free competition which prevents us from protecting domestic production and promoting it; if it is possible to speak in climate transition when the energy-producing company in Portugal belongs to the Chinese State, when the company that distributes energy in Portugal belongs to the Chinese State, when the Portuguese airports belong to a French private company, which has little interest in Portuguese development. But, finally, here we are recommending to the Commission, or rather, to recommend to the Government that we ask the European Commission to update our inflation funds and let us, please, invest more in the climate transition or Portuguese production and in the protection of the Portuguese industry. Mrs. Members, certainly that the funds must be updated, that the funds must certainly be monitored, that the funds must be properly implemented, so we will vote in favour of all the projects that recommend, with realistic awareness, however, that very little will change in the structure of the Portuguese economy, which has long lost the ability to think of itself. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u245	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Barbosa de Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this Chamber, many have experience of governance at many levels and know that good communication is not enough or making promises to rule well. To govern is difficult, because to govern is to move from words to actions, knowing that in order to have results it is necessary to prepare, execute and follow up decisions. This is the only way there are realisations and it is with realisations that the country is moving forward. Concreteing, however, has not been the strength of the current government and governments of António Costa. [[PSD applause.]] It is true that it is an old national seal, as, indeed, a Minister of the current government recognized — I was in the Chamber and I heard — but these governments have made a lot worse. The sum of the PRR with PT 2030 and PT 2020 says that Portugal has in these years more means than it has ever had in its history. So what's the problem? It's simple, it's not enough money, you need to know how to use it well and within the deadlines. In other words, the PRR only works with a government that is really willing to govern,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u247	That's not the case!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u248	... to plan, to reform; with a government that projects, to launch bullet-proof competitions and then to carry out the works. Unfortunately for Portugal, the current government is not such. The government itself recognises it. Faced with the slowing down of the deadlines, the difficulties of the tenders, the management of the undertakings, he asked the European Commission in August to extend the deadlines. The PSD, as the responsible party that it is, did not object to this request because it recognizes that times are difficult, but would be much less difficult if we had a government more concerned to carry out than to announce,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u249	...more to do than manage balances. [[PSD applause.]] While waiting for the Commission's response, the Liberal Initiative recommends an alternative – which can also achieve more time – to act on the PRR review mechanism. The PSD does not oppose this approach, which recognises the failure of the government, but cautions the national interest, provided that the review effectively improves the PRR and increases the participation of society in its definition. If the review mechanism is triggered, however, it is not up to us to see that Parliament — and, of course, the PSD — is not called into action. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u250	We just hope that this does not go through the head of the government either. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u251	To close the debate, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is symptomatic...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u253	Sintomatic? Oh, my God! It's possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u254	...of what the absolute majority of PS likes to do. That is, we have already had discussions in this plenary about things that are wrong and needing scrutiny, and the PS gets out; and in this issue of PRR and its possible review, in which everyone acknowledges that there are problems, delays, indefinations, with the appearance of unexpected inflation, the appearance of difficulties in supplying very many materials that are essential to the projects—it is a reality, it is unexpected, there is this problem—there is talk about triggering a review, but nothing happens. Therefore, the PS behaves as if none of this was relevant or urgent in its solution. We therefore welcome the position of the Social Democratic Party, which follows this proposal, which, of course, we stress, must go through Parliament, whatever the extent of the revision that is in question here. And we wonder when the PS will once and for all realize that the funds coming from Europe are, first and foremost, the contributions of the Member States, including the Portuguese State. It is Portuguese money that is at stake and, if not, subsidies, even those that are supposedly non-refundable, are European debt that will have to be paid by the Member States sooner or later. Member States do not exist unless they are their taxpayers, and among those Member States is Portugal, and among these taxpayers are the Portuguese taxpayers. They defend the interests of Portuguese taxpayers and propose already under Article 21. the, a review of the PRR — propose it now! — and insist that the new priorities meet the priorities of the Portuguese economy and the new conditions in Europe. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u255	We now move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 348 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves the specific scheme for the repair of emerging occupational accident damage by professional sports practitioners, 371 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment of the procedural regime of the disability or pension review incident and 372 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Regime relating to the repair of the emerging damage to work accidents of professional sports practitioners, together with the Resolution Project No 296 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Approval of a table with specific actuarial values for professional sports practitioners applicable to the dismissal of occupational accident pensions. To submit Bill No. 348 / XV / 1. a, from the PS, has the floor Mr. Francisco César.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I begin to greet everyone. The fact is that professional sports practice, because of its characteristics, does not fit the general scheme of accidents at work because it involves careers with a much lower average duration than most other professions, because they have much faster physical wear and much deeper in athletes, which implies a cost of occupational accident insurance, usually much higher. This Parliament therefore approved in 2011 a specific regime to regulate this activity. The fact is that, after about 11 years of the current law, we have seen the emergence of several difficulties in its application, difficulties that not only harm the professional sportsmen themselves, such as employers, in particular clubs. There are difficulties in assessing the risk of insurance contracts, which cause disproportionate costs and risks of conflict for Portuguese clubs vis-à-vis their European counterparts, and which make it very difficult to hire professional athletes. Just see that in Portugal there is only one entity that accepts insurance contracts in this field. As an example, our Portuguese professional football championship is the highest cost across Europe — about 20 % of athletes' salaries are four times the average of insurance charges for work accidents in the other sectors of activity. On the other hand, this law has other shortcomings. There are matters that need to be regulated, including the dismissal of pensions and the possibility of capacity-reviewing for the injured. in this sense, the Socialist Party comes to this Chamber to present a bill in which the athlete is expected to give explicit consent so that the employer may provide the insurance entity with all relevant medical examinations, carried out along the significant part of his career, so that more rigorously, the establishment of causal link between the sequels and the injuries suffered. The bill also revises the system of repairing emerging damage to occupational sportsmen's work accidents; provides for a pension plan, so far omitted; admits the possibility of reviewing disability, which must be required at the end of 10 years from the date of discharge; and has as a consequence the effective reduction of the costs of occupational sportsmen's work accidents. In short, this solution presented today is more proportional, is more balanced, is more fair and reduces constraints on the cost of hiring high-competitive athletes, which increases their employability and promotes the competitiveness and capacity of Portuguese clubs vis-à-vis their European counterparts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u257	To make a request for clarification, I give the floor to Mrs Inês Barroso of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the laws, like everything else in life, must monitor the evolution of the times and contexts in which they are applied, in order to devert what they want to regulate and protect. On the subject that we have examined today, we stress the importance of updating the specific regime relating to the emerging damage to work accidents of professional sportsmen, although it comes with many years of delay in the face of the needs evidenced by the whole sports sector, delay that is the result of the already known inaction and fear of reforms of the party that is government seven years ago, the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u259	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u260	Of course, an update of this nature implies an auscultation platform of all those who are covered by the law in force and who will be affected by this update, namely clubs, athletes and insurers. It was reported and disclosed that this bill had the contributions of various entities, especially those related to the world of football. in this sense, we would like to ask the Socialist Party who were the entities heard in this process and if the contributions also came from other entities, in addition to those in the football world, since this is an issue that affects all professional athletes of all modalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u262	The involvement of all players in the sports world is of the utmost importance to the PSD, which will seek to ensure that the concerns of the various modalities are taken into account in the discussion in the specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u263	To reply, Mr Francisco César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês Barroso, it is only late that never comes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u265	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u266	What is true is that it was the Socialist Party who thought it was right to change the current law. The current law made its way and was important in a given period, but the fact is that the Socialist Party is not alone in this Parliament. That I know, the gentlemen. Members have also been here and have had the opportunity, if they wish, to make amendments to this law. There is one fact: you did not present anything, the Socialist Party did. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] Secondly, the Socialist Party does not work alone, so it took care to listen to several entities, from the football area to others. This is what has provided the construction of this proposal, which is a fairer, more balanced proposal and which allows not only to improve the conditions for employers but, above all, to provide the capacity that these entities have to hire more athletes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Inês Barroso.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u267	To submit Bill Nos 371 and 372 / XV / 1. a and the Resolution Project No 296 / XV / 1. Mr Jorge Galveias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese sport and our athletes of high competition, in particular all professional sports practitioners, represent a fundamental and unique role in Portuguese civil society: they are an element of affirmation of the Portuguese people and Portugal in the world, which makes us all proud. Today, the Arrival presents two bills and a draft resolution that protect professional sports practitioners, if chance hits them at the door and they are victims of work accidents that keep them away from their profession. I'm not going into great detail, because it's the ladies. Members in the possession of our proposals, as they certainly know the law in force, Law No. 27 / 2011 of 16 June, which provides for some specifics regarding the general regime. After 11 years of its entry into force, it is time to restate some of the solutions enshrined there, of which we will give three examples. First, as regards the review of disability, after the award of medical discharge by cure, without depreciation, the current legal regime for repairing accidents at work in 2009 liberalized the exercise of the right to review disability by not establishing any maximum time limit for this purpose. Therefore, the consecration of a time limit so that the professional sportsman can claim a discharge by cure, without depreciation, is essential in the context of a quick wear profession, such as this one. Secondly, we have the application of the aggravating factor of 1, 5 to professional sports practitioners over 35 years of age. Admitting the application of the factor of aggravating partial permanent disability from the age of 35 means deverting the objective that led the legislator to establish that situations involving an absolute permanent disability for the usual work ( IPAH ) can only arise up to 35 years. Moreover, the cumulation of a situation of IPATH with the aggravating factor of 1, 5, on the basis of the non-convertability of the injured to the job, makes no sense, since both measures depart from the same assumption, that of the worsening of the cash provision because the injured cannot continue to perform the same work as he usually did. And finally, the need for a table with specific actuarial values for professional sports practitioners, applicable to the dismissal of occupational accident pensions. In spite of the legal prohibition on the allocation of pensions by IPATH after 35 years of age and also the legal limit on the amount of pensions from that age, we find that it continues to apply to these injured persons to Ordinance No 11 / 2000 of 13 January, which is intended for an active life well over 35 years. In fact, this regulation does not take account of the fact that the profession of professional sportsman is of rapid wear, which means that the careers of these injured persons cannot have the same temporary compensation as those of workers whose careers are much longer. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is urgent, therefore, to review the legal regime in force, under the penalty of the situation becoming incompatibility for sports companies, with the consequent damage to the enforceability of the right to repair damage caused by accidents at work to professional sports practitioners. I cannot fail to greet today, in a special way, our Portuguese Soccer Selection, which, in such a noble and combative way, is representing us so well in the Catar World. Whenever the Portuguese team enters the field, with it 10 million Portuguese residents of Portugal... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...and about 5 million Portuguese and Luso-descendants scattered around the world. It is good not to forget that athletes make sports a school of Portuguese citizenship. But it is of no use to greetings, decorations and selfies if the Portuguese Government continues to devalue sports and sportsmen. If the PS bench, led by Mr Brilhante Dias, today the proposals submitted by the Arrival, will embarrass not only the professional sportsmen but all the Portuguese who are, for any reason, linked to the sport. Think about it, ladies. Members, for example, in our National Selection, in the pride we feel in those professionals who are currently representing Portugal at the Football World Championship. Don't embarrass us! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u269	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Helga Correia of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the Socialist Party for bringing the debate on the regime for repairing the damage caused by occupational accidents of sports practitioners, a very important matter and which the PSD has been accompanying for several years. We understand that there must be an improvement in the law's adjustment to the real needs of high-performance athletes, who, as mentioned above, are athletes with higher-cost and shorter-duty careers. But, Mr. Carlos César...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u271	Francisco!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u272	You've been here! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u273	Francisco César, I'm sorry. Carlos César is his father.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u274	It's the whole family!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u275	Mr. Francisco César, it was worth clarifying what modalities are that Mr. Members of the Socialist Party heard before they made the bill, because that is important. This issue of rapid wear isn't just sportsmen connected to football, as everybody knows. Usually, there are also in other areas and modalities of high yield, and it was important to understand which were heard, but this was to be clarified in your answer. I would also like to say that this project aims to introduce a set of amendments concerning the repair of the emerging damage to work accidents currently in force and, of course, excludes the issue of accidents with rapid, rapid wear-out damage, at the level of partial permanent disabilities and absolute permanent disabilities, in the case of death pensions, and also defines how pensions will be remitted and who can request the same remission. Although this has been discussed for several years and has involved the contributions of the parliamentary groups, the political sector, that is to say of the State secretaries, and the insurance sector, of course, in their public assessment, if the honourable Members. Members had the opportunity to verify, the Portuguese Insurance Association says in its contribution, and I quote: « This document results from the consolidation of the contributions received from the associated insurers ». It adds that, globally, it agrees with the spirit underlying the change in the current legal framework because it understands that it establishes a more balanced and fairer solution, but does not inhibit alerting Parliament to some delays and incongruences in the project, which, in its view, should be analyzed in the field of specialty, as well as alerting to some issues at the level of the specific switching table for the activity of professional sports practitioners. To conclude, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that the Social Democratic Party is available to make positive contributions to improve and improve the bill we are discussing, is available to be part of the solution and to maintain a constructive dialogue, as a matter of specialty, by a system of repairing emerging damage to work accidents that responds to the needs of all the entities involved in this process. And when I say 'all', Mr President, I mean all manner of high-performance arrangements. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u276	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party and the Party on the proposals they bring today, which call for us to discuss this issue, because they will allow — at least on our part, with the exception of a proposal, we will make it possible for all others — who then, in the specialty, can do a work of improvement and refinement, even considering those who are already public contributions, who have already arrived and who demonstrate some care we should have. This, not only so that the document coming out of the Assembly will not fall within the framework of the Constitutional Court, but also that more insurers will be opened to the possibility of providing insurance for this. In fact, they are solutions for people who had as their professional option sports activity. Many of these activities have physical impacts, not only because of accidents at work, but also because of their very nature, are short-term activities when compared to most of the professions that exist and therefore we are aligned with the concern that the proposals here bring and, in the specialty, we will also collaborate and contribute to make the final text fast and then be safeguarded from beating through the Constitutional Court. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u278	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That high-competitive sport, as a professional activity, has specificities and distinctions in relation to the general labour framework rules is undeniable. In fact, this is why these activities are not covered by the Labour Code, but by a special regime, the Legal Scheme of the Labour Contract of the Sport Practitioner. That there is also a specificity in the system of repairing the resulting damage to accidents at work is also obvious. Sportsmen, as has already been said, have shorter careers—as in fact happens with other activities, for example, those of professional dancers—have a greater number of injuries and also have, in some sports, much higher salary losses than those of other professions, among those who earn less than thousands and those who earn a lot of millions. The existence of a regulation and the revision of the regime make all the sense and therefore it is to value the initiative of the Socialist Party, which brings this discussion here. The question is this: how do you do it? First, the law establishes compensating ceilings. You realize that if you want to set limits and, in fact, that is a claim from clubs and insurers. « Reduced costs increases employability », Mr Francisco César also said, but the question that arises, despite this being a demand for clubs and insurers, is whether it makes sense to completely delineate the compensation to which workers have the right to the income of their own workers. That is to say whether it makes sense not to consider any relationship between the income that workers, these sportsmen, would have if they continued to work and the value of the compensation they have for not being able to work, depending on their injuries or accidents—of course, up to a certain period of time, corresponding to the sport career. Secondly, the Socialist Party project establishes a legal age limit to which the regime applies. That there must be a limited age at which the regime applies is normal. That is, is it true that this limit is lower than the general age of a professional career, because it is not the 66 years and 4 months, but it should be the 35 years? Are we not talking about an ungenerous fiction that should at least admit the possibility of proving that the sportsman continues his sport career? To set this limit, so rigidly, is it not in line with a reality, in fact, that is the increasing longevity of professional sportsmen's careers? Even in football—and this regime is not just for football, is it for all of the sports modes—is it not common today to have careers beyond the age of 35? Just think of the examples of famous: 39-year-old Pepe; Cristiano Ronaldo, 37-year-old. I speak of these well-known examples, but how many professional sportsmen are there, in smaller clubs, in other ways, that go beyond the age of 35 and that are totally unprotected by this limit that the law thus sets? Thirdly, as regards the criterion for the recognition of the injuries to be compensated, the Socialist Party's project defines that they cause a disability of more than 5 %. However, some experts have drawn attention to the fact that, in many cases, small injuries which cause a disability of less than 5 % in the light of the national disability table—which has not been thought of for these professions—is a general table— may interrupt a sports career. Therefore, the question is whether this limit of 5 % really protects sportsmen, professional sportsmen or, above all, insurers and clubs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u280	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u281	I'm done, Mr. President, I'm sorry. It is because we have these doubts and even these reservations that we will abstain from this bill, in the expectation that the specialty can answer these questions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u282	To speak by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft law that the PS brings is proposed to review the system of repairing emerging damage to occupational sports accidents in such a way as, in the words of the Socialist Party, to establish more just and equitable solutions, so it moves towards a more specific regime. This type of protection is, in fact, very important in the life of a worker, in general, because it allows him not to be unprotected in cases of accidents that mean, for example, disability. Thus, the more adapted the scheme is to the specificities of the profession and the functions performed, the better for the worker. However, the realities of athletes are very different and it is necessary to consider all who are not professional football players. It is therefore necessary to ask how many, effectively, have contracts and are professionals and if the problem of athletes does not first reside in that point. Therefore, we will not oppose this initiative, but will contribute to its discussion in the specialty because it needs to be called for effective protection of high-performance athletes. There are aspects that need better clearance and weighting, in order to effectively serve to favour the worker and not to weaken him or her and to weaken his or her position before the employer or insurers. I am speaking, for example, of the age established as a term of career and the calculation of amounts and their ceilings, even within its scope or in the determination of disability. in this matter, even, it is necessary to involve athletes, their unions, as well as the representative entities of the sector and other specialists. It is essential that this be the case. It must also be said that, with very few working parties, especially if we take into account the diversity of modalities, the openness that the Government demonstrates in order to discuss this issue must go further, effectively, and take into account other aspects that affect the life of the athlete, his life options and his professional options, namely the need for greater post-rail and dual career support. However, Portugal needs a true sports policy — something that does not have! — start in school and continue in the remaining life of the athlete, so this is a debate that cannot be left here and for which everyone is called, all must intervene. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u284	To speak on behalf of the PS, Mr Francisco Dinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As mentioned, more than a decade of law enforcement demonstrates the need for a review of the regime concerned, safeguarding the interests and needs of the parties involved. And in order to safeguard these interests, it is also important to highlight some important issues and differences in the diplomas under discussion. Let us look, for example, at the examination and discharge bulletins. In fact, Article 9 ( 6 ). the draft law of the Arrival does not make much sense, because the expiry provided for in Article 179. that of Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009 is one year ; the proposal no longer refers to the deadline, leaving, mainly in point ( b), an issue which may be raised forever. [[CH protests.]] The point of great importance, too, is that of disability. For this reason, we argue that the repair of the emerging occupational accident damage of the professional sportsman, which results in a partial permanent disability, should only cover incapacity equal to or greater than 5 %. This follows one of the objectives, which is that there is greater supply in the insurance market, making them more accessible. Let me also add the annual pension after 45 years of the practitioner, which has been omitted in other projects, and also, in relation to the absolute permanent disability, the pension guarantee after 35 years. It also needs to provide for a pension scheme, which is omitted from the law in force. And again, the Socialist Party's bill responds to the evidenced needs, and it should be noted that the proposed limitations are both in the case of total and partial remission. Fair and equitable solutions are presented in the Socialist Party bill, solutions that avoid disproportionate burdens on the cost of insurance and its hiring and that ensure that no athlete is deprived of access to them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u286	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It makes sense to revisit the issue of occupational accidents of high-capacity athletes, professional athletes; it makes sense to regulate this matter and, if not, that is the merit that the proposal we are discussing here brings. Like other parties represented in this Chamber,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u288	They are not « others»! It was just one more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u289	... we believe that, as a specialist, there may be the possibility of revisiting some elements that give us doubts, in particular the definition of occupational accidents that cause incapacity beyond 5%, when we know that sometimes, in the case of high-income athletes, a lower disability than that is enough to change a sports career or to prevent the athlete from training at the highest level, as before. The question of the 10-year period for the review of disability also gives us doubts, when in the general regime it is possible once in each calendar year. And then we consider that it is necessary to look very carefully at the entry into force so as not to create legal uncertainty, but to allow — as if this scheme were to be more advantageous for athletes — to cover as many cases as possible. Therefore, we do not know whether the entry into force on the day following the publication, simply for accidents in the meantime, will be advantageous in relation to an entry into force which covers all cases currently under way. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] But we believe that, in the field of expertise, we can look at these issues and thus help improve the diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u290	To intervene, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u291	Mr. President and Mr. Members: With regard to this issue, there are, in fact, some doubts which the PS proposal brings to us. Of course, we cannot forget that talking about sports and professional sportsmen is not just about football. Well, we know that football mixes with many passions, sometimes even takes us rationality—especially now, when we check the realization of the World Cup—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u292	12 years ago he was awarded, they woke up today!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u293	... but the truth is that there are measures within the framework of the Socialist Party's proposal, such as the objective of reducing the risk of insurers and the cost of insurance contracts for accidents at work, in particular the limitation of the right to reparation, which make us wonder whether we are not facing a clear benefit to insurers to the detriment of the interests of sports professionals. It does not seem to us that there is proportionality and we are particularly concerned about the sportsmen of the lowest levels and all the other professional sports, including modalities other than football. That is why we will not support the vote on this proposal, we will abstain, and we hope that, in the field of expertise, there will be room for improving this proposal, so that sportsmen, who must be valued and not harmed, can benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u294	To close the debate, Mr Francisco César, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the facts: the current regime is useless. The current regime is unique in Europe — it is enough for you to do so. Members shall read the technical note which refers to it and clarify it very well. The current regime makes clubs that have various modalities, or modalities besides football, have higher duties than would be normal and much higher than other clubs at European level, with which they compete. The salary of athletes is clearly impaired by the cost of insurance, and it was therefore urgent and essential that the current scheme should be changed to benefit high-performance professional athletes — all athletes, of all modalities — and necessarily also to help clubs to succeed and have better conditions. That's the goal. This proposal is presented with good intentions, in general, and the Socialist Party is available to, in the field of specialty, listening to contributions from all the banks—from those who have contributed and presented proposals to those who have now come to this issue—to accept proposals to improve the bill, so that we can finally have a proposal that effectively improves the lives of athletes and gives conditions to clubs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u296	We have thus concluded the agenda on the points of legislative opinion. Let's move on to the regiment votes. I ask the services to act on the mechanism of registering the presences. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] There is a 'castle beat' in the last row of the PS bench. I would ask you to identify yourself, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u297	Mr. President, it was to record my presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u298	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u299	Mr. President, it was also to record my presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u300	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I am very sorry, because among those who are still coming in and those who are already coming out there is a certain confusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u301	They don't respect the President! They don't respect anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u302	So let's finish this quorum check period. Is there any other Member of Parliament or any Member of Parliament who would like to indicate that you are present?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u303	Mr President, I also wanted to record my presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u304	All right, Mr. Deputies. I ask the services to report the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, which is why we are going to vote. contrary to the indication I gave at the outset, it is necessary to vote on Opinion No 10 by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, already read, replacing Mr Nuno Fazenda — who must have taken over as the new Secretary of State — by Mr José Leitão Ferreira. Let us then vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No. 188 / XV / 1. a ( presented by BE ) — I regret the death of Professor Carlos Pimenta. To read the draft vote, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last October 19, Carlos José Gomes Pimenta died. I was 74 years old. Economist, he was a university professor of ISCEF ( today ISEG / UTLisboa ) and, after 1975, at the Faculty of Economy of the Port ( FEP ). Born in Lisbon, PhD in Economics by the Higher Institute of Economics ( ISE ), in 1985, with the theme Inflation in Portugal, took possession of, in June 1997, as Professor of Economics of the EFF, where for 40 years he taught subjects such as National Accounting, Public Economy, Currency and Prices, Marxist Economy, Monetary and Financial Policy, Economic and Social Development, among others. Associated founder of the Observatory of Economics and Fraud Management (OBEGEF ), Prof. Carlos Pimenta was the first Portuguese to receive in 2012 the Outstanding Achievement in Outreach / Community Service award awarded by ACFE ( Association of Certified Fraud Examiners ), the largest worldwide organization to combat fraud. For 11 years Prof. Carlos Pimenta was also pro-director of the University of Porto. He was also the author of several scientific materials, articles in magazines, research projects and books, among which : Contributions for the Characterization and Explanation of Inflation in Portugal — 2016 ; Rationality, Ethics and Economics — 2017 ; Fraud in Portugal — causes contexts — 2017 ; Offshores of Our Daily — 2018 ; Economic-Financial Fraud and Education : last class — 2019. The rhetoric of the University of Porto, on behalf of the entire academic community, highlighted Prof. Carlos Pimenta's contribution to the teaching and research of economic sciences and, in particular, the decisive role he played in the creation of the Observatory of Economics and Fraud Management, “which will last forever as one of his greatest legacys to the Academy and Country. ” Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Prof. Carlos Pimenta and presents his condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u306	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We passed the Vote Project No 190 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PS ) — I regret the death of Francisco Laranjo, who will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last November 16, at the age of 67 in Porto, painter Francisco Laranjano, professor of the Faculty of Fine Arts of the University of Porto, director of the same institution and since July 2022, his teacher emeritus. Natural Lamego, was deeply marked by the natural and human landscape of the Douro, viewing its artistic action as a cross of multiple languages, in an interdisciplinary way. Mirror of this crossing is its creation space, its workshop in the city of Porto, which concentrates multiple references and stimuli—from statues of various origins, African tribal masks, music albums, books, small and precious memories—who could compete so that the gesture on the screen reflected the cross of multiple languages and multiple times. Lord of various artistic expressions—sculpture, ceramic, glass—the painting and drawing were the privileged forms of its creation which, in the words of the artist, presuppose a process of involvement of all senses and of all capacities of understanding and intuition, implying a look at ourselves and the whole universe at the same time. Postgraduate scholarship of the Gulbenkian Foundation ( 1981 and 1983 ) and Goethe Institute, in Dresden ( 2000 ), began to exhibit in Portugal and abroad in 1979, highlighting individual exhibitions such as Iter Duriense ( Nasoni Gallery, Porto, 1993 ), Simultaneities ( in various galleries in London, 1997 ), Mirror ( Republic Museum, Rio de Janeiro, 2002 ) or Materia ( S. Madede Gallery, Lisbon, 2007 ), as well as collectives in Copenhagen ( 2004 ), South Korea ( 2012 ) or Japan ( 2015 ). His work is represented in national museums and public collections, such as the Center for Modern Art of the Gulbenkian Foundation, the Amadeo Museum of Souza-Cardoso, the Museum of Contemporary Art of the Fundação de Serralves and the Municipal Museum of Tomar, which is also part of the collections of the Cultural Center of Macau and the Institute of Contemporary Arts, in London. Among the distinctions that it was targeted are the Medals de Mérito Municipal do Porto ( 2009 ) and de Lamego ( 2013 ) and the Order of Public Instruction, in the degree of Commander, awarded in 2015 by the President of the Republic. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its grief for the death of Francisco Laranjo and evokes its journey as a plastic artist, university professor and director of the Faculty of Fine Arts of the Port, presenting to the family and friends the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u308	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of this vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project No 193 / XV / 1. a ( presented by CH) — Despite the death of the producer and director Antonio da Cunha Telles. You have the floor to read Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The producer and director António da Cunha Telles was one of the biggest names of the New Portuguese Cinema in the 1960s. He was born on Funchal, on Madeira Island, in February 1935. She was a medical student at the University of Lisboa, but she ended up devoted to the cinema. It begins with reports for the RTP, it is even camera operator when Queen Isabel II came to Portugal in 1957, but in the late 1950s it ends up traveling to Paris, where it conducts three courses to learn cinema, at Institut des Hautes Études Cinematograficas, in Sorbonne, and at the École Normale Supérieure de Saint-Cloud. Returns to Portugal in the 1960s, assumes leadership roles in the Cinema Services of the Directorate-General for Primary Education, as it conducts cinema courses in the Portuguese Youth. Thus it begins a period where it is responsible for more than 200 credits as a producer since The Green Years ( 1963 ), through the films « founders » of the Portuguese Cinema Novo, such as Belarus ( 1964 ) and Sunday afternoon ( 1966 ). From the 70s onwards, he performed his first long films, even after becoming an administrator of the Portuguese Institute of Cinema and the Portuguese Tobis. There are hundreds of productions to which the name António da Cunha Telles is associated, but to highlight the fact that he has been a non-credited producer of Belle Époque — The Beautiful Epoch ( 1992 ), by Fernando Trueba, winner of the Oscar of Best Shooting Film. Honorary member of the Portuguese Academy of Cinema, he was thanked in 2018 with the degree of Grand Officer of the Order of Infante D. Henrique. António da Cunha Telles died on November 23, 2022, in the city of Lisbon, at 87 years old. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Antonio da Cunha Telles, one of the great names of Portuguese cinema, and conveys the deepest condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u310	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of this vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project No. 197 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PS ) — regretting the death of Fernando Gomes. Mrs Lina Lopes has the floor to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last November 26th, at the age of 66, Fernando Gomes, a major figure of Portuguese football and, in particular, of the Football Club of Porto, his club of the heart, about which he said: « My dream was to play in the Football Club of Porto. Everything else came up. Fernando Gomes was one of the greatest footballers in the history of Portuguese football, having a career full of successes and records at the service of the clubs he represented, as well as of the Portuguese selection. Natural of the city of Porto, Fernando Gomes was born on November 22, 1956, having represented the Football Club of Porto for 13 times, as a player, in two different periods, and two seasons at the Sporting Club of Portugal. There were still two seasons in Spain, in the Real Sporting of Gijón, which in 1980 beat the record of transfers to guarantee the advanced. He was currently head of the Football Clube do Porto, and has assumed responsibilities for scouting and training over the past few years. Fernando Gomes was one of the most successful Portuguese footballers, being recognized by all. Fernando Gomes was the best scorer of the history of the Football Club of Porto, officially with 355 goals, having been the best scorer of the Portuguese championship for six times. He won five national championship titles, among others. He was twice Europe's best scorer, receiving the Gold Boot in 1983 and 1985, assuming since then the caring nickname of “bibot”. at the service of the Football Clube do Porto, he also won the Cup of European Champions and the Intercontinental Cup in 1987. In 1988, he conquered the European Supertace. at the service of the Sporting Club of Portugal, during two periods, Fernando Gomes scored 38 goals. Fernando Gomes represented the National Selection 47 times, marking 13 goals, being present on Portugal's return to major international stages in the European of 1984, France, and the 1986 World Cup in Mexico. His remarkable contribution to the affirmation of Portuguese football will last in history. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Fernando Gomes, presenting the most heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and the Football Club of Porto. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u312	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of this vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No. 200 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — I regret the death of José Manuel da Costa Monteiro, who will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last November 27, José Manuel da Costa Monteiro died, at 39 years of age, the victim of a fulminating cancer. José Monteiro was born in the parish of Campo Grande, municipality of Lisbon, coming from a humble family, showing from early on a passion for sport, which led him to obtain a degree in Sports Sciences by the Faculty of Human Motority and then the Masters in Sports Management, also in the same Faculty. Despite having practiced various forms of sports, his love was bodybuilding and devoted his whole life to this modality. With an inexhaustible energy and an incredible desire to conquer, he devoted himself to the Portuguese Federation of Culture and Fitness, where he performed various positions, including that of the Secretary-General and, more recently, of President. The recognition for its competence and dedication to the modality also led to the International Federation of Culture being given the status of international judge, being invited to judge international competitions on all continents. But his greatest joy was to feel the growth of fashion in Portugal and the medals that the Portuguese athletes achieved in the championships of Europe and the World. Because he did not stop, he still founded the Federation of Culture and Powerlifting of Portugal, extending to this mode his interest and dedication. Similarly, he was unable to remain indifferent to what was going on around him, so he joined the Democratic Social Party, incorporating the lists of his party in the recent autarchic elections in Loures County. With knowledge of the disease that affected him, he married, on August 29, and continued until the last day preparing the family and the Federation for the near future. We will never see his smile again, nor will we hear his laughter from afar, the result of constant joy. It remains for us to be sure that your life has left profound marks. As he always said: “Don’t fail! Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of José Monteiro and presents his condolences to the family, especially his wife, Joana, his son Gustavo, 5 years old, his mother and brother and the Portuguese Federation of Culture and Fitness. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u314	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I welcome the presence in the galleries of relatives of José Monteiro, as well as representatives of the Federation of Culture. I would ask that we keep a minute's silence for the three regrets that we have just adopted. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We continue, with the Voting Project No. 199 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L ) — Greetings by the centenary of José Saramago, who will be read by Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On November 16, 2022, the centenary of José Saramago was celebrated, an occasion to greet and evoke the memory of one of the greatest writers of the Portuguese language, the only, until today, to whom was attributed the Nobel Prize of Literature. on November 16, 1922, José Saramago was born in the village of Apinaga, in Golegã, Ribatejo, where he grew up surrounded by the olive trees that would mark the landscape of his childhood. As a child, the family moved to Lisbon, where Saramago completed the technical course, since she had to leave secondary studies due to financial difficulties. Your first job was like a mechanical sawmill. At home there were no books, having acquired his first book at the age of 19, with money borrowed from a friend. In the Municipal Library of Lisbon, which began to attend at nighttime, it fueled his desire for knowledge and literary instruction. He was 25 when he published his first novel, Earth of Sin. In the following decades, he was a public official, translator and literary critic at Seara Nova, published poems and was a journalist, in the Diário de Lisboa and in the Diário de Noticias, where he served as deputy director. In 1977, José Saramago published the novel Manual da Pintura e da Caligrafia. From there, an impressive literary production was followed that would open horizons for the understanding of our country and its people. Becoming a full-time writer, he published in 1980, Risen from Chão ; in 1982, Memorial of the Convent, which gave Saramago an international projection ; in 1984, the Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis ; two years later, Jangada de Pedra ; in 1989, published the History of the Circle of Lisbon ; and, in 1991, the Gospel According to Jesus Christ, which was incomprehensiblely excluded from the European Literary Prize by the authorities, motivating the hurt protest of Saramago, which moved from residence to Lanzarote, in Spain. In 1995 Saramago gave the print one of his masterpieces, Essay About the Blindness, expanding the efabulatory and reflective universe of the author. All Names ( 1997 ), The Cave( 2000 ), The Duplicate Man( 2002 ), Test on Lucidity ( 2004 ), The Intermittances of Death( 2005 ), The Elephant Travel( 2008 ) and Caim ( 2009 ) complete the list of novels published by the author. His work, which also includes essay, such as Travel to Portugal ( 1984 ), plays, such as In Nomine Dei ( 1993 ), or diarrhea, such as the five volumes of the Cadernos de Lanzarote ( 1994 - 1998 ), mirrors some characteristics of his biography, such as his convictions and political militancy as a member of the Portuguese Communist Party, since before 25 April. Not by chance, in Saramago, are central to the treatment of ordinary people as subjects, as well as a question of religion, our culture and history itself, as well as how the individual relates to society. This ability to question, inverting the terms, contrary to the assumptions, is essential in the reading of the saramaguian work. José Saramago received multiple distinctions throughout his life, in Portugal and abroad, noting the recognition that his work of universalist charism deserved, highlighting among those the attribution in 1998 of the Nobel in Literature, by, as explained by the Swedish Academy, “with parables bearing imagination, compassion and irony makes constantly understandable a reality of escape.” The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, recalls the writer José Saramago, welcoming, on the date on which the centenary of his birth, his memory, as well as the greatness and singularity of his work is celebrated. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u316	Thank you very much, Secretary. There will be speeches from the parliamentary groups and I would ask all of you to contain within the two minutes of the regiment. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote of greeting for the centenary of the birth of José Saramago celebrates his literary work, marked by a humanism of intervention and by the thought and action of the intellectual committed to the emancipation of the workers, in a universal and progressive vision of history and faithful, as militant of the Communist Party Portuguese, to the project of socialist transformation of society. These elements are not strange to the Romanesque creation nor to the wealth and depth of the Saramaguian gallery of characters: of rural workers, of Levantado do Chão, of the Blimunda Set-Luas, of the Memorial of the Convento, of Joana Carda, DA Jangada de Pedra, to the family of olive trees, of Acaverna, to refer to some of the fictional nature, but that are produced from an acute observation of the real. This ideal did not fade with the global prestige to which it was definitely raised with the Nobel Prize, because it was of good-temperature steel proven since the times when it faced the dark fascist repressive apparatus, as a communist militant, and with its chronics NA Capital, in the Journal of the Fundão and in the Diário de Lisboa. See the volumes of From this world and from the other, The Bagagem do Viagante and the opinions that the Diário de Lisboa had, by subscribing the bold below-signed against the draft of the 1971 press law and by presenting at the III Congress of the Democratic Opposition in 1973, the thesis for the study of culture and information in Portugal. The chronics, the greatest genre of journalism, were their trenches also in democracy, almost to the end of life, in numerous newspapers and magazines collected in political notes and sheets, highlighting itself in the devoid defense of the Constitution of the Republic, the conquests of April, as well as the denunciation of exploitation and inequality in Portugal and the world, and the oppression of peoples, particularly in Latin America. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u318	You now have the floor to Mrs Rosário Gambôa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u319	Mr. President and Mr. Members : José Saramago, writer of All Names, is a universal writer and is universal because he addressed universal themes, defeat myths and people, reviewed allegories — the potter, DA Cavena, Marta, Baltazar — and, in particular, lucidity, shadow and blindness. He looked into the devices and machinery of the world, to see how they move and, with arguably, dismount their ardis, to unscrew these shadows and tell us about the pain and suffering of the exploited, those who suffer descend to the depth of the human soul to speak of their glory, their weaknesses and their resistance. He was also a stylistic rich writer capable of panoramic flights, large sloppy planes, great features, memorable characters, small moments, places and dreams. Often, his works have brought controversy to the public square and it is extraordinary when a writer in life produces so much controversy, because he was controversial marked by an indomitable spirit, often disappointed, sometimes even disenchanted, but always confident in the ability of the united man to transform the world. Human action, an action that was thought not only of a collective dimension, but of a dimension that did not exclude human individuality in so many characters and people portrayed in their works, let's say, where the individual and the collective assumed their superior emancipatory in a humanism. [[PPS, PCP and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u320	Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u321	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group is associated with this greeting in the centenary of the birth of José Saramago and believes it is important to emphasize that today every year thousands and thousands of young Portuguese people still have permanent contact with the work of a writer who, in our understanding, will always deserve the esteem of being the only Nobel Portuguese of Literature. On the other hand, we also understand that the references to the work of José Saramago can always raise several opinions, different quadrants and what the PSD Parliamentary Group wants to highlight today is that, indeed, José Saramago is a writer who marked our society, who marked the contemporary history of Portugal and who marked, above all, with its vision, with its thought and legacy that left to future generations, a very own prose, a way to write very characteristic of the style of Saramago, which we understand we should preserve. Therefore, on this day, we associate ourselves with this greeting with the pride of being Portuguese and with pride of honoring today, here, in the House of Democracy, one of the greatest writers of Portuguese literature. I end by quoting José Saramago, because there is something that we, in our personal, collective, social and political life, can always think and associate with a single phrase of José Saramago. Saramago told us: "What victories have to do with evil is that they are not definitive, but, on the other hand, what defeats also have good is that they are not definitive either. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD, PS Member Maria Antonio Almeida Santos and IL Member Carlos Guimarães Pinto applaud.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u322	Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u323	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The Arrival has in mind that José Saramago, as an agent of cultural Marxism, attacked the Christian tradition that was at the foundation of Portugal. [[PS protests.]] He attacked the inheritance of the meeting of Jerusalem, Athens and Rome, which are the civil matrix of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u324	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u325	In an interview he openly said: "In my case, the target is God. Do not keep on seeking. ” Clara Ferreira Alves also asked: “What right does an atheist confess, a communist come to rewrite religion? "I don't know if it was legitimate, now that I did it, I did it. I say, first of all, Christianity was not worth it. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, 100 years after his birth, Joseph Saramago is no longer among us, but Christianity is, and it is worth it! [[Congrats from the CH.]] José Saramago was born a hundred years ago in the district of Santarém, but we have memory that he died in Spain because he was self-exiled from the country. He did not show love for Portugal, so it is legitimate to state that Saramago did not love Portugal! [[PS protests.]] But worse than that, José Saramago was an ibist. Joseph Saramago did not honor the restoration of independence, shed blood and the lives that the Portuguese lost. It is a betrayal to the homeland that will never be forgiven! [[PS protests.]] José Saramago as a Marxist-Leninist sought to divide the country. He tried to rewrite the history of Portugal and at the same time supported the worst regimes of humanity, such as that of Cuba. The arrival has in mind that José Saramago was an enemy of freedom and democracy. If your ideas were to be won today, Portugal would become a totalitarian regime equal to the regime of your friend Fidel Castro. The arrival reminds us that José Saramago cancelled press freedom during the hot summer of 1975, as Deputy Director of the Newspaper. José Saramago healed 24 free journalists who demanded more pluralism for defending the end of the censorship that he then lived. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[L. Protests.]] José Saramago was a communist, even knowing of the crimes against humanity executed in the name of this ideology. It was someone who put first the interests of the communist revolution rather than the interests of Portugal. Fortunately, it was unsuccessful in its regime policy. Is this greeting justified by your Nobel Prize? Many claim that the Nobel Prize has long lost its value and prestige, becoming only a political bonus. In fact, even President Obama has a Nobel Peace when it was the president of the United States who launched more bombs all over the world! [[PS protests.]] If José Saramago is an example, then let him be an example of everything the country does not want to follow! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u326	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One day, a young history student, was reading The Time of the Cathedrals by Georges Duby, and noticed not only that this was interesting, as it was very well written, but, more importantly, it was very well translated, and it is not always that it is noticed in a translation. It was a few pages back and you saw — translator : José Saramago, 1979. It was about the time when José Saramago was unemployed to restore his career, always learning, translating, in the case, the best. A few years later, José Saramago was already an international famous writer and found, in a bookstore in Spain, the same young man who had just read Ricardo Reis's Death Year. They stood there in conversation, to the point where this young man, a shy teenager, invented an excuse, because he did not feel well before that which was already obvious greatness of the writer who was preparing to be the greatest writer of our language at that time. If there is a reason, Caros and Caras Collegas, why Portugal is a literaryly rich country, it is because the mission of literature is very similar to the essential tension that our country has: on the one hand, what is home, what is small, what is home; and on the other hand, what is universal, what is grand. José Saramago, following the example of his master Ricardo Reis — «puts what you are at least do» —, being from sawmill-mechanical to translator, the text reviewer, the writer, who has already returned to literature after his 60 years, managed to be grandiose, speaking of the lives of the little ones, the peasants of the Alentejo, his paternal brothers, about that revision of text that transforms a « yes» into « no» and transforms the history of the universe, keeping Lisbon itself in its center. That is why renewing the connection to José Saramago is that we all learn to be ever bigger. We don't need to change what we are. José Saramago did not cease to be controversial, he did not cease to have his opinions—in fact, he became a global writer, never being a globalized, lyophilized or dehydrated, but always maintaining his opinions and, with that, being greater. And one thing is certain: if, today, there is this world outside, from Mexico to Brazil, from Asia to Africa, Portuguese Chairs is because there was a great Portuguese writer, of the largest of our language, called José Saramago. [[PSP, PCP and PSD Members applauded.]] And that is a universal truth that will remain. I wish many could say, even a thousandth of it. It is that those who love the country are those who make the world know the country. José Saramago was one of these and there are not many. [[P.S., PCP and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u328	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies : Raised from the ground, José Saramago was a son and grandson of peasants. He was insubscribed to a life that wanted to deny him access to what he loved, the literature. He was insubmitted before his own literature before the rules of art, created new ways of saying reality, created new ways of writing reality, created new ways of thinking about reality. He has taught us, too, all of us, as we think of ourselves as people, our place in the world, our place with history and, for his love of our country, how we could think much more of ourselves than we had been in recent times. He fought the blind of social inequality, social injustice and did so convincingly, as those who believed that, in fact, freedom and democracy could be a greater good for all of us. That's why the right, a very reactionary part of the right, never forgave him. He did not forgive him the fight against fascism; he did not forgive him the fight for freedom; he did not forgive him also, with so many others, the dictatorship, which for so many years silenced our country. And, yes, Saramago is one of the victims of November 25, the one who determines right and always rises in our country. [[CH protests.]] And, yes, Saramago, who came to be the Nobel Prize, was fired from a newspaper on November 25. But it is also the one who, when this right becomes hostage to history and the past, of the one we want at the bottom of the garbage chest of history, shows that he can force death to intermittent. So we are here celebrating the 100 years of his birth and we will be, over the next centuries, reminding us of the one who is one of the greatest Portuguese-speaking writers, who is also a great Portuguese and who has proud and proud of us all. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u330	Finally, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The greatness of José Saramago undoubtedly contrasted with the smallness of some ideologies, as we could verify here today. That is why he is a major writer and an unmistakable reference to our literature. Not only their works have brought us the value of the dignity of the human person, but also their role — some may say controversial — has certainly been an exercise of freedom of expression, which everyone must assist us. It was essential, for example, to discuss topics such as assisted drug death, which is also a principle that emanates from the dignity of the human person. However, José Saramago did not stay here, also the sensitivity to animals was present in his works. Characters such as the elephant Solomon, NA Elephant's Journey, or the Dog of Tears, in the novels Test on Blindness and Test on Lucidity, have clearly demonstrated, already at this time, the unmistakable consciousness that we have today about the animal simplicity and the values and the bond that they have and must represent towards the human being. Moreover, he was a strong opponent in relation to the tourdas. For José Saramago, the bullfight was a cruel, atrocious and obscene activity, outraged by our civilization and our nations. Perhaps that is why there is a certain right that likes to silence and numb those who think differently and who somehow like to challenge these larger figures. However, it is precisely because they are "a stone on the rampart" and to carry forward their ideas and the reflection of a society, that today we not only celebrate the centenary of Joseph Saramago's birth, as we will continue to celebrate because, above all, by word and letter, our language is alive. It is because of the critical ability of these writers to bring these social dimensions, but also of sensitivity, whether cultural or even to nature and to animals, that we should pride ourselves, as a country, rather than deny these legacys so important to redeem all these rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u332	Let us then proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 199 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Greetings by the hundredth anniversary of José Saramago. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and votes against CH.]] I welcome the presence of representatives of the José Saramago Foundation in the galleries. [[P.S., PCP and BE applause.]] We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 300 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Cape Verde. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the NAP and the L and votes against the CH.]] Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u333	Mr President, it was to inform us that we will make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u334	All right, it's registered. We then proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 152 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Elimination of the tip for teaching Portuguese abroad and guarantee free of charge of school textbooks adopted. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 154 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Free teaching abroad ( third amendment to Decree-Law n. o165 / 2006, of 11 August ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 184 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August to promote a quality and free teaching of Portuguese abroad for Portuguese children and young people and Lusodescendants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PS, IL, PCP and L.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 205 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Determines the end of the collection of propina/registration rate to Portuguese and Luso-descendant young people who attend or attend the teaching of Portuguese abroad, for the purpose of amending Decree-Law No 165/2006 of 11 August 2006. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 104 / XV / 1. a (CH) — For the right of Portuguese children and young people and Lusodescendants to a teaching of Portuguese quality and free of charge abroad. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions from PSD, PCP and L.]] We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 142 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government defend the teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue abroad. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] We then vote in general on Resolution No 143 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the right of access to teaching in Portuguese abroad to Portuguese and Luso-descendants residing abroad. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 289 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — To defend the teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue for Portuguese and Lusodescendants outside Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 290 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the teaching of Portuguese abroad in its different dimensions and intensify the use of digital technologies to make it more attractive, interactive and tailored to the profile of students. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and the CFP.]] The project goes down to 2. the Commission. Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva asks for the floor, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u335	Thank you very much, Mr President. We wanted to inform you that, in the end, we would like to make an oral vote on the last nine votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u336	All right, sir, that's how we're gonna do it. We then vote in general on Resolution No 115 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the autonomy of the hospitals of Coimbra, appreciation of the General Hospital of the Covões and by the reversal of the merger process of the hospitals of CHUC, EPE. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 120 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening of the Hospital dos Covões and the care capacity of the National Health Service in Coimbra. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 151 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Change in nursing career, in order to value these professionals so important for the National Health Service and for the country. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We will now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 121 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By valuing health professionals and SNS in the Algarve region. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 294 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends the elimination of intermediate positions in the categories of specialist nurses and managers placed in 1. a and 2. the remuneration positions and their wage updates. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and with abstentions from the PSD, CH and IL.]] We now vote in general on Resolution No 10 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government put an end to the discrimination of trans people in cancer screenings for breast, colorectal and cervix cancer of the uterus. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of IL, the CFP, BE, NAP and L, votes against CH and abstentions from PS and PSD.]] The project goes down to 9. the Commission. The PSD Parliamentary Group wishes to intervene and to that end I give the floor to Mrs Emilia Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u337	Thank you very much, Mr President. We would like to inform you that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u338	Thank you very much, Mrs Deputy. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 113 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Access to innovative therapies for breast cancer. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 248 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to Lynparza® for eligible breast cancer patients in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 295 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For the encouragement of measures to recover breast cancer screening and the approval of Lynparza® ( Olaparib) therapy funding. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 369 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Increases the limitation deadlines for the crimes of falsification of documents and tax crimes and provides for new causes of suspension or interruption in counting the deadlines for the prescription of criminal proceedings. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the NAP and abstentions against the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 370 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amendment of the deadlines for prescribing sexual crimes against minors and a set of crimes of corruption. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CFP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the IL and the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 321 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines the universality of the freeness of school textbooks for all students of compulsory education. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 368 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Equality in the provision of school textbooks. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 373 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the free provision of school textbooks to all students in compulsory education who attend private and cooperative education ( third amendment to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We proceed with the vote of Parliamentary Inquiry No 4 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible parliamentary investigation committee for the assessment of the management of the covid-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP and the BE were rejected.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No 360 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prohibits phantom flights from or to Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 361 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Introduce restrictions and restrictions on landing and take-off of private jets in national territory. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] Mr. Duarte Alves wants to speak, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u339	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to indicate that we will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u340	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 362 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the occurrence of night civil flights, except for emergency landings or other compelling reasons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and IL.]] We then voted on two applications, one submitted by the NAP and the other by the L, asking for the discharge of the Committee on Environment and Energy, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 356 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Restricts the performance of night flights, except for force majeure, by amending General Regulation on Noise and Decree-Law No 293/2003 of 19 November 2003 and Draft Resolution No 251 / XV/1. a (L) — By safeguarding rest and well-being: against night flights in Lisbon. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mr. Pedro Pinto is asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u341	Yes, Mr President, to inform you that I will present a written declaration of vote on Bill Nos 360 / XV / 1. a, 361 / XV / 1. a and 362 / XV / 1. a, all of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u342	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha also said that she would present a statement of vote on this subject. The general vote on draft resolution No 288 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the end of night flights, by the right to rest and well-being of populations. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 291/XV/1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government develop a fee on private jet flights. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the BE and L and abstentions against the CFP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 280 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government, together with the European Commission, act on the review mechanism of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] We are going to vote, in general, on the Resolution Project No. 34 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create an assembly of citizens to monitor the implementation of European funds and to ensure the participation of non-governmental environmental organisations in the National Monitoring Commission of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L and abstentions against CH and the CFP.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 35 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government increase the information available on the Transparency portal and create a focus group with representatives of civil society to assess the improvements that may be introduced on this portal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and PCP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 287 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government, in the context of the review of the RPP, which will undertake to ensure transparency on the environmental impact of the changes undertaken and consider the inclusion of an increase in funds to create an adaptation component for climate change, to ensure greater ambition in the energy and water efficiency objectives of housing, to ensure the irradiation of non-classical housing situations by 2026 and to strengthen the means for research and combating corruption. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and PCP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 293 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government propose a modified recovery and resilience plan to the European Commission. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PSD, IL and the CFP.]] Let us now proceed with the general vote on Bill No. 348 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves the specific scheme for the repair of emerging occupational accidents of professional sports practitioners. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the PS and the CH and IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 296 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Approval of a table with specific actuarial values for professional sports practitioners applicable to the dismissal of occupational accident pensions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We then generally vote on Bill No. 371 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amendment to the procedural regime of the disability or pension review incident. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, since I called him "Dear Member", is cooperating even more! Open... [[CH and IL rice.]] The general vote of Bill No 372 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Regime on the repair of the damage arising from work accidents of professional sports practitioners. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We generally vote on the Resolution Project No 236 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Responsibility in revitalizing the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, CH, BE, PAN and L, and abstentions by the IL and the CFP.]] We are going to vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 268 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of a project to enhance the environment and technology of the Serra da Estrela Natural Park. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the PS and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 241 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government urgently undertake the implementation of a project that includes strengthening « seabreak », increasing sauces and donor recovery with a view to protecting the people and goods of São Pedro Cova Gala. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and the NAP and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 239 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the reduction of the rates paid in the kinetics field. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstention from the PSD.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolution No 97 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Increase the reuse of treated waste water. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment and Energy, on draft resolution No 112 / XV / 1, follows. a (L) — Recommends that the Government establish the obligation of recycling/reuse systems of grey water in new buildings and consider the eligibility of such systems for financial support through the environmental fund. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS, the CH and the CFP.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolution No 210 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — artificial load of aquifers to enhance water efficiency. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolution No 216 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Encourage green infrastructures and the installation of rainwater systems. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 29 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Completes the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541, amending in particular Law No 52 / 2003 of 22 August ( Counter-Terrorism Act ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD and PAN and with abstentions from CH, IL, PCP, BE and L.]] We shall proceed to the vote on an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which will be read by Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Évora - Judice de Instruction Criminal de Évora, Inquiry No 3095 / 20.7T9OER, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Deputy Inês de Sousa Real ( PAN ) within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u344	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u345	Mr President, it is to note that, taking into account the principle arising from Article 27 ( 1 ). that of the Statute of the Members, and that it refers to statements which I have made as the leader of parliament at this time, I will not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u346	The conflict of interest is resolved. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD.]] The NAP did not participate in the vote. An oral vote of the Liberal Initiative shall follow. Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the nine initiatives that we have been voting on the teaching of Portuguese abroad, our senses of vote—even because several of them were abstention—are related to the differentiation that we make of the teaching of Portuguese as the mother tongue and the teaching of Portuguese as a foreign language. That is why we abstained from voting on a number of initiatives. The teaching of Portuguese as a foreign language should also deserve a strategy itself, but within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has the protection of economic diplomacy. This is because we should start looking at our language and seeing its economic potential and what it can bring if we can convince and explain to more people of other nationalities who, knowing Portuguese, can be much more able to win this world out.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u348	Thank you very much, Mr. We still have 54 seconds of work, which is little. Follow-up will be the reading of the dossier by Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u349	Mr. President, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, two initiatives: Bill No. 377 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) and the Resolution Project No. 304 / XV / 1. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-02.u350	Thank you very much. I remember that we have the next plenary meeting on Wednesday, December 7, with political statements and the debate of the draft resolution No 281 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Assessment of the report on Portugal in the European Union, 2021. Very good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 53 minutes.]]
