ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. Let's start our work. I declare open the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. To proceed with the reading of the dossier, you have the floor of Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. They entered the Bureau and were admitted, several legislative initiatives: Bill No. 120 / XIV / 3. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 6. Commission ; Lein Projects 46, 47 and 48 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; and Draft Resolution No 42 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. of our agenda is the beginning of the general discussion of the Bill No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. on the first day, the Government will submit the bill, which will follow the requests for clarification that this presentation will raise and then the interventions of the various parliamentary groups and of the sole representatives of the party. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that, in the meantime, conditions be created so that we can all hear each other. [[Pause.]] To submit Law No 4 / XV / 1. a, has the floor Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: On 30 January, the Portuguese approved, in an absolutely unequivocal way, the State Budget which this House, in its earlier composition, had rejected. This was the clarity with which we stated and reaffirmed, as a measure, that we would re-present it after the elections, that we could almost say that this proposal was really referendumed and that the response of the Portuguese was absolutely enlightening. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can therefore say with all confidence: yes, this is the Budget that responds to the needs of the country; yes, this is the Budget that has the right priorities; yes, this is the Budget that Portuguese and Portuguese want. The document we are considering today maintains the priorities we presented at the end of 2021, because we maintain precisely the same strategic objectives and the same ambition to accelerate growth and convergence and to strengthen social cohesion. We do not, of course, ignore that since then the geopolitical scenario has changed deeply, due to the barbarous invasion of Ukraine by Russia and its consequences on humanitarian, social and economic levels, with significant reflections on the increase in energy prices and the collapse of supply chains. But can and should a country and a government of action review their ambitions in this scenario? The answer is that, obviously, they can, but they should not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u6	We well know that what remains of the year 2022 involves large areas of uncertainty, in which we will be subject to market volatility and dependent on factors that we do not control. That has been the case for the past two years and will be the case in the coming years. But, after turning to the page of the political crisis, what matters is to strengthen our ambition and keep focus on Portugal and Portuguese. Uncertainty cannot cause the country to abandon the path of convergence with the European Union, it cannot make the government slow down the march and much less reverse a path that the Portuguese have drawn to us —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...the same Portuguese who know, as we know, that there is certainly a lot of road to walk and that, while there are winds and seas, the government here will be, the government will not stop. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In October, when I presented the first version of the State budget for this year, I identified as « the main priority of this proposal(...) to support the country's growth and economic recovery through increased investment and family income ». If this was already the right priority, the new geopolitical context only confirms its full relevance. In the face of a scenario of inflation—even if temporary—the Government has acted quickly and identified the responses to this crisis, with robust and effective economic measures, which will help to contain energy prices and mitigate inflationary shock, support families and businesses and accelerate energy transition, protecting social cohesion and economic growth. I can therefore announce that, having been promulgated by the President of the Republic and even today by me referred to the law passed here, in the Assembly of the Republic, on Friday, the new descent of the ISP (tax on oil and energy products), already next Monday, will allow the tax burden to be lowered by 0, 20 €/ litre,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... by reducing by 62 % the increase in the price of gasoline and by 42 % the increase in the price of gas oil suffered by consumers since last October. Among the reductions in taxes and subsidies, this budget proposal provides for more than EUR 1300 million in support of businesses and families. It is therefore a budget that has concrete answers, turned to the real country, a budget that allows us to pursue the course we have drawn, adjusting to the new environment, without diverting us from the great national designs. This is a budget of actions for recovery and concrete measures for people: to act in recovery; to improve people's lives; to guarantee today the future, with concrete measures, because the future is going to be built every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The whole of these measures does not require the sacrifice of those which the Budget has already provided, just to strengthen the incomes of families. We will honour our commitments towards pensioners, implementing the extraordinary increase in pensions, with retroactive effects on 1 January. Through the collapse of the steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), we will reduce taxes on the middle class and, with the increase of the minimum of existence, exempt from the payment of IRS more than 170 000 families with lower incomes. We will increase, up to triple, the scholarships for young people who want to make their masters and reduce taxes for those who have already started active life, extending and automatically making the IRS Youth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will extend the Return Program until 2023 to ensure that those who have gone on their way abroad, because they do not have decent work alternatives in Portugal, know that their country continues to look forward to them and, hoping that their return will be realized, wants to create conditions for them to achieve it. Let's start the transition to a general free model of day care, starting with the children of 1. year. We will increase the tax deduction from the second child, who was already increased to €900 up to 3 years old and who will become the child until 6 years old. Finally, with the creation of the child guarantee, we will be able to reduce poverty in childhood by removing more than 120 000 children from the extreme poverty situation, which represents an overall amount of EUR 140 million up to 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is therefore a Budget which contains measures aimed at children, young people, middle-class families and pensioners, strengthening social protection without leaving anyone behind; but it is also a Budget that adopts a income policy aligned with the major strategic objectives of promoting qualifications and combating inequalities and demographic winter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u8	To continue our path of growth and convergence, Mr President, we also need to strengthen investment. On tomorrow, the Minister for Infrastructure and Housing and the Minister for Health will talk about public investment—investment in infrastructure, housing and strengthening public services, in particular the National Health Service ( SNS ). But I would like to stress today the measures that the Budget envisages to support business investment, thus meeting the high expectations of companies, which the economic climate indicator has still confirmed. The Capitalisation and Resilience Fund has a sum of more than EUR 1300 million to recapitalise businesses and support their growth throughout the life cycle. We will also strengthen the Development Bank with more than EUR 250 million, thereby facilitating access to finance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and encouraging competitiveness and stable job creation. With the purpose of the special payment on account, we will ease the treasury of our small and medium-sized enterprises, so penalized with this regrettable delay in the approval of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u9	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u10	With the implementation of the much-awaited fiscal incentive for recovery, we will stimulate private investment, allowing companies a deduction to the collection of IRC (tax on income of the public) of 10 % of the usual investment expenditure and 25 % of the additional investment compared to the average of the last three years. Finally, we will improve the fiscal framework to promote entrepreneurship and set talent in Portugal. The new patent tax regime will be one of the most competitive in Europe and we will review the stock options tax regime for technological start-ups, making it even more attractive. In short, this budget is in line with what is proposed: to support the growth and economic recovery of the country, through increased investment and income of families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is our plan. It is the plan that we presented to the Portuguese and that they chose, free. It is our duty and ambition, even greater, to do everything now to achieve it. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will honour our commitments and, without fear, assume the responsibilities arising from the expression of popular will. I have, of course, heard what the oppositions say. Almost all of us are asked to dynamite the international credibility recovered over the past six years, ignoring budgetary stability, and to some others I hear to speak—it is a mistake! — in austerity. Austerity? Only the weight of the conscience of those who inflicted on the Portuguese people cuts that no family forgets...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u11	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u12	... may justify the argument of austerity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Yes! Will austerity increase the 2 million and 300,000 pensioners with the lowest pensions, with retroactive effects on 1 January?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u13	Down with inflation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u14	Will austerity reduce taxation to the middle class through the collapse of the IRS steps? Will austerity create the child guarantee, which will remove more than 120,000 children from extreme poverty? Will austerity increase public investment by 38 % and create a strong incentive for private investment? The Portuguese and Portuguese still remember very well what true austerity means: the one that weakened our social fabric, condemning hundreds of thousands to poverty; the one that brutally increased our unemployment rate; the one that ran our democracy, destroying social cohesion, and advised young people to choose another country. No, this is not the budget of austerity! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Austerity is not our DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), nor will it be our strategy to deal with crises. It was not during the COVID crisis, it is not in the face of the crisis we are facing. Portuguese and Portuguese know that they can count on the Government to ensure the full realization of their rights. But the Portuguese and Portuguese also know that they can also count on the Government to continue a path of responsible budgetary consolidation and certain accounts. It was this path of international credibility that allowed us in 2021 to pay less than EUR 3 billion in public debt interest towards 2015. It was also this consolidation path based on growth-friendly public policies that allowed us to strengthen the budget balance through economic dynamism and job creation and thus reduce the weight of our debt in gross domestic product ( GDP ). We must continue this journey, continuing to reduce the ratio of public debt in 2022 to ensure that we are ready to face the many challenges that the future holds for us. We intend to end the year 2022 with a public debt weight in GDP more than 10 percentage points below the 2015 value. Today we are living times of high uncertainty with increases in interest rates slightly across Europe. More than ever, it is essential to maintain financial discipline, because it is better to safeguard the interests of Portuguese families and companies. We want to have a financially strong state, better organized and better prepared, with certain accounts—because without certain accounts there is no confidence in the future. We have already shown that it is possible to invest in strengthening and improving public services without compromising those accounts. Yes, it is possible to reconcile a certain accounting policy with strong measures to support families and businesses. Yes, it is possible to have certain accounts without austerity! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: This budget is not a last-minute exercise. What we're saying is it's more than time. The previous composition of this Parliament meant deferring Portugal for more than half a year, stopping the country, interrupting the path that the responsibility of the vote had entrusted to them. And one thing I assure you: this government will speed up, recover, realize, realize.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u15	Now it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u16	With democratic humility, we accept the will of the Portuguese. The Portuguese broke the seas and chose the direction of the wind. They decided, freely and in a fairly well-attended election, that there is, after all, a lot of road to walk. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the benefit of the Portuguese and Portugal, « we will continue»! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u17	Mr Prime Minister, for the first round of requests for clarification, all parliamentary groups, as well as the Members of Parliament were enrolled. Only representatives of countries... I'm sorry, I meant only representatives of a party. [[Laughing.]] The past chases us! Open... As far as we're concerned, the ladies and gentlemen. Members will have no more than 5 minutes to ask their questions and the answer will be given in an individualised manner, starting this phase with the largest party of the opposition and then following the decreasing order of parliamentary groups and parties. For a request for clarification, Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Budget of the State you have submitted is the same as it has been negotiated with the extreme left and rejected, although in these five months the world has changed in political, military and economic terms. Indeed, it ignores clearly the estimated 4 % of inflation in income policy, which will be expected to be exceeded: it provides 0, 9 % of growth in public service wages, but, with the expected inflation, employees will lose at least half a salary at the end of the year; moreover, they have already lost compared to 2021, since inflation was 1, 3 %, but only an update of 0, 9 % is expected. Inflation is, however, desirable for public finances, for the reduction of deficit and for tax collection. It is, in fact, a hidden and very regressive tax. That is, the state wins and the state workers lose. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u19	Mr Prime Minister, your Minister of Finance is in the subtlety of the dual negative saying « I cannot say that there is no reduction in purchasing power ». Let's leave the semantics, let's leave the question of whether this is austerity or not and let's go to the substance. Do you recognize that with your Budget this year of 2022, the Portuguese will see a decrease in their real income, their purchasing power, and, at the end of the year, will you lose at least half a salary? This is the first question I want to ask you. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, this Budget is also, I regret to say, a statement of your lack of courage and reformist will. Socialist governments have been in power since 1995 in 20 27 years, but never, as in their mandates, so many countries have surpassed us in GDP per capita,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u20	...the best measure of the country's wealth. We have been overcome by Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Hungary and even Romania — I repeat, Romania — will soon become richer than Portugal in per capita GDP. [[All right!]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u21	It is not, Mr. Prime Minister, contrary to what you mean, a historical fatality. It's not a historical fatality! [[PSD applause.]] The problem is that it is not possible to recover without increasing the potential growth of the country. And this budget shows that this Government and this Prime Minister are, in fact, the least reformists and the most conservative we have had since the beginning of this century. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u22	To manage, either a company or the public thing, is not simply to occupy power and increase it by administering the daily decline, it is to seek all opportunities for improvement, to enhance growth and efficiency, to obtain more means for justice and equality. Mr. Prime Minister has unique conditions like no one had in democracy—I repeat, unique conditions like no one had in democracy: absolute majority, President of the Republic and party of the opposition dialogue to serve the country... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... and a very favourable period of international economic growth. The second question I want to ask you is: where are the economic, state, fiscal, justice and other costs in order to promote economic growth in this budget? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u23	Will you waste this unique opportunity for lack of courage and reformist will? Mr Prime Minister, the history of your budgets and budget executions shows that the government always underestimates the expected revenue and always collects more than it expects. But this year there is a difference: with inflation, it will charge more nominally, but the Portuguese will lose, they will earn less. Mr. Prime Minister says that inflation is transient, although he does not say how long and everyone acknowledges that it will last at least until 2024. In the election campaign, it clearly promised an increase of the minimum wage to 900 € in 2026. Given the current context, I ask you: will you update the value of the promise, according to inflation, for about €950 or even — if inflation is a little higher, as is predictable — for much more, almost 1000 €? Would it not have been better to refer to the values of rising inflation and productivity gains rather than to a concrete value? In short, Mr. Prime Minister will honor your word in real terms or everything has not come to an end and the Portuguese, any day, will have to conclude on themselves — now, of course, on a political level alone — that Mr. Prime Minister recently wanted to make public on the last Socialist Prime Minister, of whom he was, in fact, a minister? [[PSD applause.]] Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, since his budget was rejected until now re-presented, the most violent and serious war in Europe since World War II broke out. It is imperative to equip the Armed Forces with the means to ensure national defence, to fulfil our commitments, to help the Ukrainian people. A few days ago, Mr President of the Republic devoted all his speech on 25 April precisely to this subject and to the need to strengthen the means of defence. However, the budget now presented is at EUR 800 000 below the rejected budget. Your Minister of Finance says it's because a state secretary has been extinguished. We thought the Budget was for equipment, for means for defense, but, after all, for the sights, it was for state secretaries! Open... [[PSD applause.]] The need for strengthening the means of defence has increased, but the government is proposing to reduce the budget allocation. So, to conclude, I would like to ask: how does this justify this? How will you respond to the challenge of the President of the Republic to reinforce the defence funds? Do you think that what you presented corresponds to or will, after all, accept the PSD proposals in this area? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u24	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u25	Mr President, Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, I congratulate you on your new duties, wishing you the greatest happiness. Your first statement is absolutely true. Indeed, as we have said, this budget corresponds to the Government's initial proposal but also incorporates the measures we negotiated with the NAP, the ENP and the Portuguese Communist Party, measures that were planned to enter the phase of the specialty and which have now entered, which are properly consolidated. Therefore, it is absolutely true, we have honored the commitment we made to the different parties with which we had negotiated the first version of the Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, Mr. Deputies, it began to work, but from there it generated the greatest of the perplexities. First of all, I convey my perplexity to you about what you said about Portuguese incomes. What I remember is that when we discussed the rise of the national minimum wage, the position of the PPD/PSD was against this increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Throughout the campaign, the PSD not only repeated that it was against the rise of the national minimum wage, as I said... [[PSD protests.]] I know it's boring, but it's like this... look, it's life. It's life. It's life! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition, when he presented his tax reduction programme, the high priority of the PSD was to reduce IRC, giving a possible reduction of IRS to an uncertain and future moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u26	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u27	Therefore, an increase in Portuguese income, either through wages or through taxation, was definitely not your concern. Inflation, contrary to what may seem, as a result of Mr President's speech, is not included in the Budget, is an economic reality to which we must face.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u28	And the recipe?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u29	That is why we have adopted a set of measures to combat inflation that are causing problems. We know that this is an imported inflation which has conjunctural causes that are essentially related to the price of fuels and to the breakdown of supply chains, the first fruit of the pandemic and now aggravated by the Russian war on Ukraine. So where do we act? Where we have acted: on the price of fertilizers and rations, in order to try to control the impact of the increase of these components on the agri-food goods that we all consume, and on the price of fuels, in order to avoid the contamination of the economy as a whole, due to the increase in the price of energy. We now have a very advanced negotiation with the European Commission together with Spain in order to avoid contamination of the cost of electricity by rising gas prices. In addition, according to the functioning of the system and the reinforcements that have been made, we were not only able to prevent at the beginning of January an increase in the energy price - which explains that our inflation is the lowest in the euro area as a whole - as, according to the indications we have from the energy sector regulator, there will very likely be a further reduction in the electricity price in July. Therefore, with regard to inflation, we are acting where it is necessary, seeking to control prices so as not to impact, through erosion, the income of families and the competitiveness of businesses. With regard to public service, in our first legislation, we set the goal of removing cuts and defrosting careers. Now, since we took off our careers, about 87% of public servants have had a progression or promotion. That is why, if you look carefully at this proposal for a State Budget, you see that we have an increase of 3, 6 % in the total wage mass for the Public Administration. of these 3, 6 %: 1, 1 % is a volume effect because we are strengthening the National Health Service, we are strengthening the security forces, we are strengthening the Armed Forces, and this necessarily implies a greater number of employees, which increases the wage mass ; but 2, 5 % results from the annual update and, on the other hand, from the effect of promotions and progress on all public employees. As for the annual update in 2019, we restored this principle, which was not practiced throughout this century and which allowed, precisely, to recover from the erosion of the purchasing power verified in the previous year. So we will keep for this year and next this annual update rule, and we will do so in negotiation with the unions and taking into account both inflation and the state's financial capacity for 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u30	To make a request for clarification, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor on behalf of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u31	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen, here we are again. Yes, Prime Minister, here we are again, with our proposal for a State Budget for 2022. And the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group speaks of the proposed 'our' because this State Budget is — it was, in good rigor — truly an annex to the Socialist Party's Election Programme, the one we presented to the Portuguese on 30 January 2022. Why an annex? Why was something contained in our program? Because it is clear that this proposal for State Budget was, in October 2021, the fundamental cause of the creation of a political crisis in Portugal, a political crisis that the Portuguese resolved by relying on the PS, relying on Antonio Costa and entrusting us with an absolute majority to implement the State Programme and Budget for 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, six months and a day ago, when this House understood the proposed State Budget Bill,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u32	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u33	...we said, from this bench, that there was a way to walk and that the Portuguese wouldn't understand. To the left of the PS, the response in the polls was clear. The left to the left of the PS understood to return to the trench, but the trench is smaller. The Portuguese responded to the Left Block and the PCP trusting the PS to implement the most progressive State budget, the most progressive proposal of the State budget that has come to this Chamber in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To our right, Prime Minister, we've got it. In October, the Budget gave everything to everyone, it was expansionist; it gave more pay to civil servants, more pensions to pensioners; it gave more tax credit to companies and it ended with the PEC (the Stability and Growth Pact) ; the Budget was everything for everyone. After all, six months and one day, Budget is nothing to anyone! The coherence of the PSD, Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto, was mirrored in this Chamber... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and it is clear and objective that you have lost the north: from everything to nothing for anyone! Mrs. Members of the PSD, we expect the constructive alternative, which has not yet appeared in this Parliament and in this debate. But I must point out that, six months ago and one day, the right has looked at your opportunity to return to power and has presented to the Portuguese an alternative, which, to a large extent, was compared with this Budget which we present here, Prime Minister. This alternative had an essential pillar: a tax offer to the richest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u34	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u35	... starting by discussing with the right-hand side of the PSD a single tax rate of 15 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u36	You're making it up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u37	...and a tax bill that attributed more income to those who have most,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u38	All of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u39	... at the expense of making the social state a social "car" which would serve only the poorest of the poor and transform the middle class into the client of the education and health market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u40	That's what you guys do!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u41	This alternative was plunged by the Portuguese in the polls, giving the Socialist Party an absolute majority. But it has also been plunged because the Portuguese know — the middle class and the younger ones know — that the heritage we built with the social state has always been, in all circumstances, the greatest ally of sustainable growth for all in Portugal. And here we make politics for everyone, we don't just make politics for some, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[CH and IL protests.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I must add that the confidence that the Socialist Party deserved in the elections of 30 January had another decisive element. It is that that was already the seventh budget, and now this is the seventh budget, since 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u42	Now it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u43	... always with certain accounts,... [[Rice from members of the CH André Ventura and Pedro Pinto.]] ... always fulfilling the deficit, always making the debt grow, always offering the confidence that politics for all is done with certain accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ask a question!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u44	Mr Prime Minister, this is why I would like to leave you two questions, because apparently in this Chamber — in particular, in the debate of the Government's programme and today, again, by Mr Paulo Mota Pinto's speech — the questions to the Government on certain accounts seem to have ended. No one asks questions about the right accounts, it's over! In the debate of the Government Programme, only Mrs Jamila Madeira asked a question about certain accounts to Mr. Prime Minister. To the right and to the left, "true accounts" is no longer a topic. How can we guarantee the social state without certain accounts? How will we protect the social state and public policies without proper accounts? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, how is that possible? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u45	With more taxes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u46	The governments of the Socialist Party have drawn the debate on the certain accounts of this Chamber and that is why this is a legitimate question: how?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u47	True stories, always!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u48	Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is clear that the uncertainty we live in is a lot because we are recovering from a pandemic and also because there is an invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. The uncertainty is a lot, Mr Prime Minister, but I ask you this question: before the objective data of the international institutions, which tell us that inflation is tends to be temporary, what does a responsible government do? Does the inflationary process continue or uses the public resources of the right accounts to protect Portuguese, particularly more vulnerable? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u49	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u50	Mr President, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, I think he has put his finger on the wound. [[CH's laughs.]] The right, as a whole, has a problem: since 2015 — and even before that — that they say it is not possible to have certain accounts without austerity. So when we decided to turn the page of austerity, they proclaimed that the devil would come there! Now, from 2016 to here, they got tired: the devil didn't come in 2016, he didn't come in 2017, he didn't come in 2018, he didn't come in 2019. COVID was a new opportunity to see the devil, now in the form of COVID — and it came, COVID was even a devil — but it was not the devil for the right accounts, because the right accounts and the budget surplus of 2019 were precious to have the ability to respond, as we answered, to the COVID crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we arrived at the end of 2021 to meet the criterion of having a deficit of less than 3 % and to resume a public debt reduction trajectory. And this reduction in public debt was absolutely essential, because it was what allowed us last year to pay less than EUR 3000 million of interest than what we would have to pay if we had kept the same rates of 2015 and had not recovered international credibility over these years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] War was a new opportunity to see the devil on the right accounts. But, as he did not come, the right, with all his propaganda device, discovered the key! [[PSD laughter.]] So, what's the key? It's simple: we pretend we don't do austerity, but we do it. So we only have certain accounts because we have a hidden austerity!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u51	It's not hidden!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u52	at least they're generous, because they say we're great: "Do austerity pretending they don't! Do not keep on seeking. ” They are agreed once and for all: a budget that makes an extraordinary increase in pensions to 2 million and 300 thousand Portuguese, a budget that lowers taxes on the middle class, a budget that allows young people, in the first two years of activity, to have an exemption of 30 % in the IRS, a budget that increases public investment by 38 % is neither here nor in any part of the world, a budget of austerity! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition, the right has a new tape, that of growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u53	Cassette has your friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u54	No, you guys got frozen in time. They haven't reached the vinyl yet, but they're already in the cassette! [[PS laughter.]] As I said, the right has another tape, that of growth, and in this tape, adopts a trick. The most classic trick is the average of the last 20 years. And why will the average of the last 20 years be used? Essentially, to hide the average of the last six years! This is the essential reason,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because the truth is, for many years, when Europe was 15, Portugal was not overcome by anyone, since it was in 15. the position and who is ultimately never exceeded by anyone who goes ahead. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, what they really want to hide is that in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, not only did the country resume convergence, growing more than the European average,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u55	The tape again!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u56	... something that had happened, throughout the 20th century, in 2009 — by chance, it covered five years in which the government was the PS — as in those four years, we grew, on average, seven times more, I repeat, seven times more than we had grown in the previous 16 years! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our problem is not looking at who's behind us, nor at who's next to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u57	But I should!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u58	Our goal, since accession to the European Union, as well as it has well synthesized, then in a happy sentence, Prof. Cavaco Silva, is to be in the front platoon and, to that end, we want to draw closer to those who are more developed, those who grow up, those who are more prosperous. That's what we want to get closer to! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So fortunately in this year of 2022, we will resume this path of growth and convergence and will grow again more than the European Union average. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u59	For a request for clarification, you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u60	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Prime Minister of Portugal in this Parliament would think that we were talking about another country and another reality. But no. It is even António Costa, with the second largest government ever in Parliament, ready to say to the country: "Now, my friends, it will be. You guys don't miss the chance, because now it's gonna be! Only, as the kids say, « only not». It is only not, Mr Prime Minister, because, yesterday, your Minister of Finance was sitting here, where he is now, and I said this sentence, which I ask him if he acknowledges: "I cannot therefore say in consciousness that the Portuguese will not lose purchasing power. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u61	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u62	I said this in response to my question here in Parliament. To be honest — to be honest, Mr Prime Minister, which is what we ask you to do in this Parliament — you must recognize that the Portuguese will lose purchasing power. And that has a word. When there is a Budget which, in some cases, increases taxes and, in others, reduces expenditure, but has as a result the loss of purchasing power of the Portuguese, this has a word, whether it likes it or not: austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u64	That is the word that Mr. Prime Minister has to say in the Budget! [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why, Prime Minister, I am sorry, but I ask you a 'yes' or a 'no' because there is no possibility for the Prime Minister to say one thing and for his Minister of Finance to say another completely different. The question is very simple: will Portugal or will not lose purchasing power after the entry into force of this Budget? Tell the Portuguese whether or not. It's a very simple thing. Today, we hear you say something that, I think, has done some, at home, to outline a broad smile: "We will improve, as we have done in recent years, the fiscal framework. » What a cool thing to hear in Parliament! [[CH's laughs.]] 'We will improve the tax framework' — but he says this without laughing. How curious it is that even with a mask on, you can say it without laughing! [[CH's laughs.]] Mr Prime Minister, where does the fiscal framework improve with this budget? Is it because of the IRS Young that improves the fiscal framework? Is there two new steps in the IRS that improve the tax framework?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u65	Two now! But what about since 2018?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u66	So let me give you some information that may be contrary to your tax framework. The pensioners in Portugal are one of the least purchasing power they have in Europe — take their tax framework there! Public servants in Portugal have lost 12 % of purchasing power in the last six years — there is its fiscal framework! [[All right!]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u67	In terms of taxes, last year we reached a record of tax burden in Portugal — and it comes to Parliament saying that we have improved the tax framework! [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] And say it without laughing, with a mask placed in front of the face, as if it were possible for the Portuguese to believe it. There is no Portuguese who believes that we have improved the tax framework. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why, Prime Minister, I ask you whether you really speak seriously when it comes to reducing public debt. He said in this House: « It allowed us to reduce the weight of public debt consecutively. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Prime Minister, Portugal today has not one of the biggest debts in Europe, nor one of the largest debts in the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), but 12. the world's largest public debt. And that should embarrass any government and any bench that supports the government! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] We have 12. the largest public debt in the world — I repeat, 12. the biggest public debt in the world! With some grace, I will tell you this: you know what was the last time Portugal had 12. the worst public debt in the world? It was in 2010. In 2010 he was in the government what attacked him and all of us. [[CH's laughs.]] I'm talking about former Prime Minister José Socrates. Remember, it was not a government led by the Steps Rabbit PSD, nor by the CDS by Paulo Portas, nor by the Arrival or the Liberal Initiative, which did not exist. He was a government led by the Socialist Party. Take this warning seriously, Prime Minister. We all know what happened later: Portugal kneeled and had to ask for external help, in the Memorandum signed by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u69	And for your party, the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u70	Portugal kneeled, had to pay off and cut pensions, when it was 12. the world's largest public debt. Therefore, Prime Minister, take this comparison very seriously, because the last time this happened was precisely with a predecessor of your Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u71	On 25 April, Mr Prime Minister took in some way a handful of ears from the President of the Republic when he said that the defence expenses were to be taken seriously. Portugal and Europe face a war in Eastern Europe. We know the difficulties our armed forces, our militarized forces, have had, either in terms of career or in terms of means. And it is amazing that we have a budget that reduces the defence budget by 800 000 euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u72	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u73	Yesterday, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, President of the Republic, said again: « This value does not reach the defense. Therefore, I ask you: is the Socialist Party going, or is it not, in the field of expertise, to increase the values for defense? The explanation we heard from the government was this: "Well, we're going to have more money than we did last year. » Mr. Prime Minister, we understand something about Budgets! The question is very simple: will there be or will there not be a greater amount of money for the defence, as requested by the President of the Republic? It is that in times of war and threat on Europe, it is not enough to make beautiful speeches, with nails in hand, and to go out to hugs with the President of the Republic. We must even honor the Armed Forces, honour national defense and honour our national defense system! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I'm not going to talk about other cases in the area of defense, which we know today, but they'll stay another time. Prime Minister, civil servants have lost 12 % of purchasing power since 2010, of which 6 % during their government. Public servants lost 6 % of purchasing power during their government, and Mr. Prime Minister came to talk about career unfolding, career thawing, etc. Mr Prime Minister said that currently 87% of employees had their careers frozen and were able to evolve. I don't know what country Prime Minister Antonio Costa is talking about. What we see, every day, is: doctors who come in today to win the same as others who entered 20 years ago;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u74	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u75	... nurses who come to earn the same as those who have been there for 25 years; teachers who give what they have and do not have to ensure that education is provided and won sadly, not only comparing with Europe, as compared with their colleagues who have just entered the profession. And Mr. Prime Minister has come to say that public servants are very happy and that they have even progressed in their careers in recent times! I ask you if this is true. Public servants had less than 6 % purchasing power during their government, which means that half of the purchasing power lost in the last 10 years was during their government. Mr. Prime Minister, I am sorry to insist again, but this has a name: it is called austerity in the public sector and in the private sector, made up of the biggest propaganda machine we have ever had in Portugal since 25 April. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I shall conclude by asking the Prime Minister about the expenditure of his Government. Portugal has today the second largest government in its history, or something similar, and we again have more money available for spending with ministries and with the government. For the Portuguese who are seeing us, I ask the Prime Minister if it is normal that, at the time when many are asked — the same ones who, when they stop on a gas pump, feel that they leave all the income available in one month — that they hold the belt, the government and the Presidency of the Republic have more money from the Portuguese taxpayers to spend. I wonder whether the first example should not be given precisely by the government and whether, when we say to tighten the belt outside, we should not be the first to do so. What a bad example of politics and what a bad example of public business conduct! That is the record which is at the beginning of the discussion of this State budget. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u76	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u77	Mr President, Mr Ventura, no, is not « now it will be », it is « now it will continue to be », which is different. [[IL Member's laughs João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] And it will continue to be because, in fact, contrary to what he says, this State budget does not result in greater austerity. In fact, your question has been asked captivatingly. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] I will quote your question: "After the entry into force of this Budget, will the Portuguese lose purchasing power or will they not lose purchasing power? » What you did not ask, and you should have asked, is whether, because of this Budget, the Portuguese will lose purchasing power or gain purchasing power. That's the question to ask! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u78	And what is the answer to the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u79	The Budget does not decree inflation, has a set of measures that either combat inflation or accelerate inflation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u80	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u81	... or increase the income of families and the competitiveness of companies or decrease the income of families and the competitiveness of enterprises. You do not have here to point out a measure that increases inflation or a measure that decreases the income of families or the competitiveness of businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u82	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u83	On the contrary, what you have in this budget are measures which, firstly, seek to control price formation by reducing the tax burden on essential components, particularly on energy costs, and, secondly, seek to improve the income of families, from the pensioners, of all beneficiaries of social benefits and also of the direct and indirect beneficiaries of wages. These are the measures you have in the Budget, those that improve income and seek to control price rise. It also has in tax matters: a very significant reduction in taxes on the middle class, through the deployment of steps; for all families with children, an increase in the deduction from the second child; and the exemption of more than 170 000 families from the payment of IRS by the increase in the minimum of existence. Yes, Mr. Member, with this budget, taxes will fall, they will not rise; wages will increase, they will not decrease; pensions will increase, they will not decrease; social benefits will increase, they will not decrease.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u85	Yes! And non-monetary transfers, such as the free of charge of day care centres, will have a brutal impact —'brutal' in the positive sense — on the incomes of all families with children to enter the first year of day care in September next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u86	Is there a loss of purchasing power or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u87	Mr President, this debate is unequal because I only know the tax matter from the taxpayer's point of view. You already know - you certainly know - in three ways:... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...in the first place, you certainly know her, as a contributor, that I assume she is too;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u89	... secondly, he devoted some years of his life to the noble task of serving the Tax Authority and thus ensuring that tax legality was applied, with justice, throughout the national territory;... [[Whoa, whoa!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u91	... and has a more diversified experience, because from there, he placed an unpaid license in the Tax Authority to devote himself to serving who was on the other side of the counter, that is, who wanted the tax planning services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u92	And what's the problem? I didn't go to the ISCTE!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u93	Exactly, it didn't go to the ISCTE!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u94	Therefore, the discussion is unequal, Mr, because in tax matters I have to make an effort to keep up with your knowledge.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u95	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u96	Nevertheless, at the level at which you put your question, I can answer it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u97	I don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u98	I get it! As you know, the concept of tax burden includes not only tax revenue but also revenue from social security contributions. This government, or rather, my governments have never increased the rate of contributions to social security. We never increased! What has increased significantly over these six years? You know what? Firstly, it was employment, secondly, wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u99	Ah, ah, ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u100	Yes, sir. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u101	It's the IRS! The IRS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u102	If the honourable Member makes an effort...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u103	You don't believe that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u104	... to have a minimum of rigour, the minimum, go see the different components of the tax burden and will verify that when you look at the social security contribution line, we actually had an increase of 1, 6 percentage points since 2015 and when you look at the tax line, we have less 0, 2 percentage points since 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In other words, the tax burden has decreased in taxes and increased in contributions to social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u105	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u106	And it hasn't increased, because we've increased rates, it's increased jobs, it's increased income, and it's made social security contributions more. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, debt is not a matter of shame or shame, it is a matter of policy to reduce it or not. The evolution of debt since I am Prime Minister, was this until 2019 : it actually rose quite well in 2020, it began to descend in 2021 and, as I said recently at the end of this year, will be 10 percentage points below what it was in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Reverse route has made the investment in defense. In 2018, I signed a commitment with NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) to the evolution of GDP-percentage spending on defence. We have set a goal of, autonomously and solely with our resources, to evolve up to 1, 69 % of GDP up to 2024. We are currently according to the NATO report by 1 55 %. We also made the commitment that if we managed to mobilise the necessary European funds we would reach 1, 89 % in 2024. We've been doing this trajectory year after year. Mr. Member, with the exception of Greece, France and the generality of the Eastern countries, Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union which is currently investing more in defence as a percentage of GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u107	So, what's going to decrease?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u108	I give you just the example : our share of GDP investment is higher than that of Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Belgium and Spain. And we will continue to increase the weight of defence investment in gross domestic product to improve the capacity of our Armed Forces, to mobilize our scientific and technological system and to mobilize and strengthen our defence industries.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u109	But will it increase or decrease? The question is simple.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u110	This is a path that we will continue, we will continue to increase the investment in defence and this year also increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u111	You must say that to the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u112	Finally, I would like to tell you that Mr Ventura was part of that right that until very recently he was in government by being captured by the PCP, by the Left Block and he knows who else to rule only for public officials. We were the government of civil servants and against all Portuguese. It was the speech from all right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u113	It's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u114	...some with greater tone, others with less tone. Now, suddenly, we have become the greatest enemies of public servants. Mr President, 'either to the sea nor to the land'! We have fulfilled everything we said about public servants: the end of the pay cuts, the end of the freeze of careers, the maintenance of full running careers for six consecutive years — it has never happened six consecutive years of full running careers, and 87% of the employees have already benefited from at least a progression or promotion. That is why, when you look at the Budget, you will see that the volume of salary in the Public Administration increases by 3, 6 % and not by 0, 9 % of the annual update and you will also see that we have fulfilled the commitment that we had taken to restore the annual update: we assume - it is in 2019, I am completing - it in 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u115	But the employees have lost purchasing power!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u116	In 2021, it was not justified because by 2020 inflation had been negative, but this year we will increase 0, 9 %, corresponding to the total of more than 1 % by 2021 minus 0, 1 % by 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u117	But they've lost purchasing power!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u118	We have honoured the commitment to maintain the annual update and what I can assure you is that, for the year, we will be here again to ensure the annual increase in public service salaries. What's the amount? We will negotiate with the unions, but it will naturally depend on the evolution of inflation up there and also on the financial capacity of the State. That is what we guarantee to the Public Administration and that is what we guarantee to all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u119	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, will remember that three weeks ago when we were discussing the Government Programme, I used the motto « now it will be ». Let me get it back, because that bike was ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u121	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u122	The Budget is coming and I have to tell you that this is not yet what it will be. It is not yet this, for example, that Portugal will start to grow something to see. And before I accuse myself of taking out a tape, you have to know that the modernity of the Liberal Initiative will get a streaming service out of here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u123	Ih...!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u124	I will not look at 20 or 6 years back, I will look forward to asking you prospectively what will happen to this Budget, with the Stability Programme, which was presented, with the Big Options that were discussed last year. What's going to happen to the front? Let me tell you, too, before speaking in tricks, that this story of 2016 - 2019 has that trick, that I have already tried to expose several times and I will repeat here: Portugal has only converged in these three years, because it has given the even more historic coincidence of the three largest economies of the European Union are all in recession... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... or stagnation at that time, lowering the average growth of the European Union. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u125	If not, Portugal had not converged. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Now, looking forward, according to the per capita GDP ranking, in purchasing power parity, the various that exist — whether the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) or the OECD — show us that we have two countries to « bite our heels » : Romania and Latvia. Portugal was 78% of the European average and now it is 74%, and do not say that it is a trick too! In fact, by 2024 the growth rates of both Romania and Latvia will be much higher than Portuguese. I dare say, with great certainty, that, until the end of your term of office, Prime Minister, at least these two countries will go beyond us! And then don't tell me it's easy not to get over it when we're the last ones, because we're almost there... you're gonna make it! It will not be overcome, because it will be in the tail of Europe again. Therefore, in terms of short-term growth — 2023 - 2024 — and even longer-term growth, the IMF has very interesting data. I went to see how the countries will be in 2027 and I looked particularly at all those who are 17, who are below the European average in terms of GDP per capita, and, of the 17, the Prime Minister knows how many will grow less than Portugal? Three! The other 14 or, better, the other 13 because Portugal is here in the middle, will grow more. Underlining : 13 countries will grow more than they grew up in 2019 when they arrived in 2027. This is worrisome! As long as Portugal does not resume this path of strong growth, everything else we have been discussing here will have no solution. With regard to the equation that Mr. Prime Minister is so proud and proud to bring here that it is possible to have certain accounts without austerity, how is that done? How is it that more is spent on social conditions, social rights, and yet there are certain accounts? I tell you and the Portuguese know: charging more taxes! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It is not just the tax burden, Prime Minister, that tax revenues, which have nothing to do with social security, come up regularly and this State budget provides more than 2600 million euros of revenue than in 2019. Where does this recipe come from? It comes from the pocket of Portuguese families and companies... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] So don't tell me that this doesn't leave the pockets of families and businesses empty. [[Applause from the IL.]] The Prime Minister has come here to say that the Portuguese have referred to this State budget. That is, for the first time in democracy, we had an election in which we had an electoral programme to suffrage with an annex that was the State Budget. These Portuguese understood to strengthen the PS position, understood to reduce the banks from the extreme left to a third of what were...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u126	And they did well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u127	...and the Budget remains the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u128	So what? Oh, my God! Isn't that ours?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u129	The Budget is the same! The Portuguese vote differently, and you do the same. So this raises two questions, one of a more budgetary and one of a purely political scope, Mr Prime Minister, and I would like to thank him for a clear answer and for not taking refuge in his half-responses, as is usual. The question of a more budgetary nature is the following: if it is not in this Budget, which benefits from being free from the Left Block and the PCP grids, is it already in the 2023 Budget that we will see the PS return to its least Marxist matrix? The second question, more political, is the following: given what is known today about the position of the CFP in relation to the invasion of Ukraine,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u130	What does that have to do with the Budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u131	... would the Prime Minister have made an understanding of management and maintained the alliance with the CFP today? Say yes or no. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u132	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u133	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, on the last issue, as you know, the understanding with the CFP, and that the CFP did not intend to continue, has always made the identity of each one very clear and this has allowed us to understand what was possible and to disagree on what has always distinguished us, particularly in the field of foreign policy and defence policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u134	So, you'd hang out again with a party that didn't condemn the invasion of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u135	With regard to the questions which you first put in relation to the period from 2016 to 2019 and 2022, if you want, let's see if we understand ourselves once and for all: Portugal, since the beginning of this century, having suffered a triple shock with globalisation, with enlargement to the East, with entry into the euro, has had long years in which it oscillated between stagnation and recession, and has grown only above the European average since 2000, in 2009 and then in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and now as all the forecasts in 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u136	What about Germany and France?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u137	So, honourable Member, there is one thing that is indisputable: only in these years has Portugal grown above the European average and only growing above the European average is that we get closer to the most developed countries. Mr Deputy always wants to pass the idea that the country has become impoverished, but the truth is that GDP per capita has grown by more than 20 %, nominally between 2015 and 2019,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u138	And the others went up 40%!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u139	... and if it is to include the hard years we lived with COVID-19 in 2020 and 2021, you will see that in 2021 GDP per capita was still more than 8 % higher than what it was before, despite the brutal crisis we had to go through. Mr. Deputy, you don't deceive anyone. We are growing above the European average. The country has not come to impoverish, the country has come to enrich.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u140	And the others are growing more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u141	The honourable Member has one point in his favour, which is to say this: others grow faster than we do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u142	That's what I've been saying for a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u143	Well, that is the debate that really matters. So, let's see why the others grow more?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u144	Exactly, why?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u145	Supposed to...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u146	Because they don't have the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u147	The own right theory of the Liberal Initiative, in particular, is hypothesized : because they have investment-friendly policies, because they attract more foreign direct investment and therefore boost their growth. Mr President, I regret to disappoint you, but on foreign direct investment, with the exception of Hungary, Portugal is ahead today and has been in front of the average of all these countries in these years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u148	If you have investment and it doesn't grow, it's worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u149	Let's put another hypothesis just for reasoning, Mr. Deputies. We will admit the following: in today's economy qualifications are absolutely crucial for the productivity of companies and for the competitiveness of the economy. Does he grant?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u150	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u151	All right, Mr, I'm glad you agree. So let's see how Portugal compared to the average of the 13 enlargement countries in 2004 when they joined? I will tell you that in the Portuguese population as a whole we had 25% of the population with at least secondary education, I repeat, 25% of the population. Do you know the average of the population who had at least the secondary education of these 13 countries? 75%. We had 25%, they were 75%. What happened from 2004 to here? Do we feel close to or are we afraid of being away from these countries? I'll tell you, for your great sadness:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u152	It's no sadness!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u153	... since 2004 Portugal has recovered from this delay in all these countries. [[IL protests.]] That is why, Mr, last year, our entire population, including our generation, had at least 55 % of secondary education, when we had 25 % in 2004. They also evolved from 75 % to 87 %. But if it's now seen in the generation that is 20 years old today, that generation that country, families...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u154	They're poorer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u155	They're emigrants!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u156	... you're preparing to be the most qualified ever, you know what happens?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u157	Emigration!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u158	When compared with the generation of 20 years, at the moment, with secondary education, we are practically equal and, in higher education, we already have younger 20 years of age to attend higher education than the whole of these countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Mr President, in what matters, which is the future and the definition of policies for the future, for the productivity of our businesses and for the competitiveness of our economy, what is essential is to have public policies that continue to strengthen qualifications and innovation. That's what we've done, that's what we're doing, and that's what we're going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u159	For a request for clarification on behalf of the CFP, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u160	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Government insists on presenting a proposal for a budget which does not respond to national problems, to the difficulties of workers and the people and which continues to refuse solutions defended by the CFP, which would now become more necessary. Six months later, the Government continues to refuse the general increase in wages and pensions, the defense of the SNS and the right to housing. It is a proposal for a budget that does not advance with measures to control and set prices on energy, fuels and other essential goods, does not assume the creation of a public network of day care centres, nor does it seek to ensure public transport throughout the national territory, moving forward to its gratuity, and continues to refuse to defend national production, family agriculture, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, compromising our national economy. The government's refusal was already serious six months ago, but now it is even more serious. Public administration workers were increased by 0, 9 %, but inflation is now 5 %. Their salaries and careers continue to be devalued due to lack of review of remuneration positions and the Single Pay Table. Career progressions continue to be sustained with evaluation quotas and other injustices. This devaluation also has an impact on the degradation of public services. Private sector workers continue to not see collective contracts being defended that allow for the increase of their wages. In many workplaces, wages above the minimum wage are blocked and do not advance at the same pace. Why does the Government continue to refuse the general increase in wages, of all wages, in the public sector and in the private sector, when it is even more necessary today to deal with the increase in cost of living? The same is true of pensioners and pensioners. The Government continues to refuse a general increase in all pensions, which enables inflation to be tackled and to regain purchasing power. This refusal requires thousands of pensioners and pensioners to devalue their pensions, even though they have been discounted for a lifetime. Even retirees and pensioners with lower pensions who will now complete the receipt with retroactives — the increase of EUR 10 that was instituted from 2017 on the initiative of the CFP — will be doomed to lose purchasing power. In the meantime, the 10 euro has already been eaten by rising prices and we are still in April. Why does the Government refuse a general increase in inflation pensions and value the pensions of those who have paid for years and years? Why does the Government refuse an increase in lower pensions, assuming that no pensioner loses purchasing power and ensures a minimum increase of 20 euros for all pensioners? And with regard to health, why does the government continue to refuse to strengthen the SNS? The problems in access to health have worsened and the SNS situation is worse than six months ago. There are no doctors and family nurses. Complaints of delay and lack of response in consultations, treatments and surgery increase. The output of SNS professionals has worsened. With the difficulties of the SNS, users and professionals lose, but earn the economic groups of the disease business, which hire workers with lower wages and make even greater profits from public resources. Why does the government continue to refuse the autonomy of the hiring by health units and the strengthening of SNS professionals? Why does the Government continue to refuse the application of an exclusivity scheme which provides for the increase of 50 % of basic remuneration and the increase of 25 % in service time for the purpose of progress? Mr Prime Minister, six months ago, the Government's refusal of solutions advocated by the CFP to respond to national problems was already serious. Six months later, when all problems get worse, this refusal is even more unacceptable. Perhaps they will be more questions, but because they result from less answers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u161	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u162	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, yes, this budget is essentially the same as the amendments we have negotiated with the CFP and which we have maintained: the extraordinary increase in pensions, the freeness of day care and other measures. And the rest is essentially the same. We don't have two sides and I know that the PCP doesn't have two sides either, so I'm not surprised at your opposition. I'm sure you're not surprised you've kept the same budget either. This budget, as I said in October and now I can repeat, is a budget that actually responds to the needs of our country. And, if there were any doubts, the Portuguese took these doubts out, clearly saying that they wanted this Budget for 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget was accompanied by an update of the national minimum wage, a clear sign that, in the case of collective bargaining, there should be an increase in income. It is a budget which is due, as expected, to the annual update of wages. It is a Budget that proceeds to an extraordinary update of pensions which, due to the increase in the indexing of social support, not only covers pensions up to € 1097, but already goes even to pensions up to € 1108, covering 2,300 000 pensioners. With regard to prices, we have sought to respond as far as possible. Today I had the opportunity to indicate that, given the existing values and the proposed law that we have tabled, that the Assembly of the Republic approved last week and that it will enter into force tomorrow or after tomorrow, on Monday, we will have a reduction of 0, 20 €/litre either in petrol or in gas oil. If we take into account that the increase in gasoline, from October to now, was 0, 32 €/ litre and that the increase in gas oil was 0, 48 €/litre, we have a 62 % reduction in this increase in gasoline and 42 % reduction in gas oil. The honourable Member can always say that instead of 42 %, it should be 60 %. Power, could, could... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ...but this necessarily meant having less in other expenses or we have to go penalizing taxpayers more differently. So we have to keep this path balanced. As you have said, Mr President, there are many other needs to be met. Look, in the National Health Service — and tomorrow Mrs Health Minister will have the opportunity to develop — the truth is that this budget, as you well know, has a reinforcement of EUR 700 million compared to EUR 2021. And this reinforcement of EUR 700 million this year adds to a reinforcement of EUR 3252 million that we have been doing consecutively, year after year, since 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u163	Go private!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u164	Therefore, it is not EUR 700 million on the Budget that we had in 2015, it is a strengthening of EUR 700 million over the EUR 3252 million that we have been investing in the National Health Service as a whole since 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, this Budget also has other measures, including to strengthen the autonomy of the management of the National Health Service's establishments, so that we can have a more efficient management and a more ready response to the needs of the different establishments. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr President, I respect, of course, your decision to hold the vote against, but I do not accept the arguments you use, because they do not correspond to the reality in this budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u165	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u166	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I recall — and quoting his words — what I promised in the election campaign was 'improvement of income'. Here, we have a budget which, as the Minister of Finance has already acknowledged, has a real breakdown of wages, a real breakdown of pensions and other social benefits. The measures now presented — IRS steps, subscription, IRS Youth and others — were already planned before this inflation cycle and were not even adjusted to the inflation we are living in, so they do not respond to this period. What it promises as a large measure, which is the fall of ISP, in fact, is only the government abdicating a small portion of the brutal increase in revenue that will have with this cycle of inflation. I have heard a lot of talk about certain accounts between the PS and the government and, apparently, they have looked little at the accounts of the document, because they have not even realized that, in the structural investments, there is a downward review of the first document for this State budget. For example, in health, it fell from EUR 251 million to EUR 115 million. The question, Prime Minister, is that prices have already risen four times more than wages, i.e. wages are getting shorter, and as they are not updated to inflation they still shrink. And even though we believe that this inflation is transitional, what the Government here proposes is a permanent real breakdown of wages and pensions and why. The government recognizes that prices can even start rising more slowly, but says that prices will not fall, i.e., a cassette of essential products which, in recent months, rose from €180 to €200 will not fall, will continue to increase. If inflation this year, government figures, is 4 %, next year, government numbers, is 1, 6 %. That is, no one will arrive at the supermarket in 2023 and have the prices as they were in the first half of 2021. They will always be rising and, as wages are not updated to inflation, there is real, permanent breakdown of wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u168	We are going to make the accounts, using the government forecasts, which are, in fact, optimistic—and I hope you're right about inflation. A worker who earns €1250, in order not to lose, in response to inflation, needed an update of €50/ month. The government proposes an increase in the state, which is a sign for the private, of 11, 25 €, which means that the worker who earns 1250 € / month, at the end of this year will have a real salary breakdown of 542, 50 €. We're going to a pensioner. A pensioner to whom the government promises an extraordinary increase of 10 €, if he has a pension of 1000 € knows that this extraordinary increase does not mean that he does not have a real breakdown in the pension because, in order not to have a real breakdown, he needed an increase of 40 €. In other words, the government promises an extraordinary increase and the pensioner actually loses €420 in a year. The cut proposed by the government, the breakdown of income, is real even for the poorest of the poor. A New University study estimated that it would require a monthly support of €40, i.e. €480 / year to the poorest families, so that they would not suffer further from inflation. Now, the government announced a support of €60 for the whole year, i.e. just €5 per month, and it does not even update the indexer of social support to the inflation rate, which means that even the poorest of the poor will have a loss of income with this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u169	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u170	This real breakdown of income, in fact, extends to the whole economy. The Socialist Party's obstinacy not to move into the troika's laws weakened the mechanisms for updating wages in the private sector, as we know, and the decision to break wages in the public sector is the excuse that employers expected to impose pay breaks throughout the economy. Moreover, the representatives of the employers, through the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal), have already said that it was the most important thing to move in wages to respond to inflation and, for this, have borrowed the mantra that the government has been repeating: caution. However, while the government and employers join in the counter condemning the wages of the workers, the managers of the largest Portuguese companies increased their own income by 90 %, outside the profits given to the shareholders. There's no more caution for us! Mr Prime Minister, the question I have to ask you is simple: if, as the Government recognises in the Budget itself, prices will not fall and wages and pensions are not updated to inflation by any criteria, nor even that strange criterion that confuses progressions with wage updates; if inflation will continue and prices will not descend, as it acknowledges, and it is fair that you acknowledge, in the Budget; if there is no update to inflation in wages and pensions, how can one conclude another thing from this Budget than an option from the Government of the Socialist Party for permanent and real breakdown of wages in Portugal? Mr Prime Minister, the arguments I have heard today are very little different from the usual arguments on the right. In the campaign it promised an improvement of income, however, in the first State budget, this absolute majority guarantees the actual breakdown of wages and pensions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u171	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u172	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, today we are discussing the last budget of the previous legislation, which was plunged in particular by the votes of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u173	Quite right, as always!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u174	This is the first of five budgets that we will have to discuss in this Parliament, which will have four more, and complete this year's exercise. This budget proposes a significant set of measures to improve income, including through the reduction of IRS-based taxation to the middle class, for families with children and for young people at the beginning of the activity. There will be a strong reduction in IRS. On the other hand, it has a significant increase in income from pensioners, and it also has respect for the principle, which we assumed in 2019, to restore the annual update of wages in public service. And the annual update of wages is not a small thing, because, as you will know, since the beginning of this century, there must have been, before 2019, only two or three years in which there was wage update. We did it in 2020 and we did it again this year, according to what inflation was in the previous two years, to restore precisely the purchasing power eroded by 2020 and 2021. What's going to happen next year? We'll see. Next year there is one thing we guarantee: there will be annual salary updates again. What's the amount? Of course, we will start by negotiating with the trade union structures within the framework of collective bargaining in the Public Administration, and then we will take into account the effective evolution of inflation this year and what is the effective capacity of the State. The honourable Member assumes that inflation will remain unchanged. If we look at inflation in the last 12 months, it was 2 3%. It is true that with the war launched by Russia against Ukraine, the inflationary tension that had already begun, right, due to anticipation of expectations and, of course, to the breakdown of supply chains that originated in the pandemic has worsened. Everything indicates that this inflation has, in fact, very precise causes and that they are conjunctural and therefore transitional. at this time, to make any increase in intercalar, as I have seen the Left Block defend, translate-CL - it would necessarily be an increase in the costs to be added to the increase of energy costs, the lack of components, rations, fertilizers, of all those products that are currently contaminating an inflationary spiral, aggravating it. That is what we must avoid, and that is what we must be careful of. at this time, any increase in wages would be an illusion quickly consumed by inflation which would necessarily increase by this way. [[BE's protests.]] I make a final note, Mrs. Member, because I have to save time to answer your colleagues too, to signal the following: this New University study is quite interesting, but you have to check the date on which the income data is anchored. They are data from 2015, 2016, i.e. they still do not take into account the great progress that was possible during the years 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and that, despite all, allowed to resist in 2020 and 2021 to COVID-19, also thanks to the contribution of Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u176	Therefore, when looking at this study of Universidade Nova, adding to the income all that Mrs. Deputy should also be proud to have contributed to improve the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. I'm not sorry for myself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u177	For a request for clarification on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor, which has a maximum of 4 and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, can not fail to congratulate us on looking at this budget and seeing that it has to some extent the mark of the NAP. It did indeed accept some measures that we proposed in the negotiation of the past budget, but much remained out of the way. When we hear him say repeatedly that there is still a lot of road to walk, what we cannot, of course, fail to advise is that he is starting to hit the clock pointers with regard to climate watch. This is because we are today, precisely 7 years, 85 days and less than 9 hours from the point of non-return, that is to say, that prevents us from exceeding the planetary limits. As far as budgetary measures are concerned, this is still a budget that does not look at some of the climate issues, of course, in the priorities set. We are very afraid that this budget which is presented to us will cut by 1 % in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment, in view of the budget presented here and which has been dropped, the same with regard to the Ministry of the Economy and the Sea, where it will cut by 3 %, when these should be programme areas in which we should maintain and even increase investment. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to the fight against drought, Portugal cannot have a medium- and long-term plan and vision. We've already said it and said it again. However, when we look at this Budget we find that, although at the beginning of the year more than 60 % of the territory is in extreme drought, this Budget allows the expansion of the irrigation and increases these investments by more than 34 million euros, a value of 6 million euros higher, for example, to what is water management in the Algarve, Alentejo and also in Madeira, areas in our country that we know will be affected by the climate crisis. We ask, then, whether it is available to accept the commitment to have a climate atlas that allows us to identify where in our country we may or may not have the expansion of the stream. Moreover, in the case of dams such as Pisão and possibly the Tejo Project, investments that we know will have irreversible environmental consequences, it is essential that this atlas exists. Before you come to tell us that everything is in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), Mr. Prime Minister, I remember that the PRR is not alibi for what is not executed in the Budget and, less so, for what must be its priorities. I can also mention another issue, Mr Prime Minister, because, for those who talk about a lot of roads, in terms of mobility, there is a short view of investments. We have only EUR 400,000 for the National Mobility Strategy, we have a cut of 11 % in the funds that would reduce the value of social passes and also increase tax incentives for mobility, being not only a social measure as environmentally responsible. On the other hand, we have more than a billion euros once again given to road PPPs ( public-private partnerships ). We also have wide hands, i.e. EUR 51 million, on the road. The question I put to you, Prime Minister, is whether or not you are available to ensure, even if progressively, the increase in the amount of the PART (Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in Public Transport), starting this year, so that, like other municipalities, like the case of Lisbon, we can have trendly free passes. On the other hand, this Budget does not look at the climate clock with regard to the « plate strategy ». Of course, we are pleased that we have finally reduced VAT (tax on added value) of vegetable cheeses, but the other products must also have the same route. We also need to go further in terms of innovation and encourage the production, for example, of vegetable and artificial meat. Is it available or not to innovate and ensure that, from the climate and from the point of view of combating drought, but also from the point of view of animal welfare, we are making progress in this area, Prime Minister? Finally, with regard to the energy transition, which is and must be synonymous with social justice, we now have 2 million people living in a situation of energy poverty, Prime Minister. However, the ambition expressed in this Budget is far from the support we should give. We have EUR 123 million through the PRR to ensure energy efficiency, but this value is clearly lower than the tax bills that are given to perverse subsidies. Is it available or not to increase this value, Mr Prime Minister, to ensure that, from the point of view of direct support, we improve the existing energy efficiency programme, but also that social gas and energy tariffs reach more families, starting with pensioners, so that we can really promote an energy transition in the homes of our families, in particular those most impoverished? It is that, Mr. Prime Minister, the weather clock does not stop, does not want Mr. Prime Minister to stay in the middle of the road.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u179	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u180	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, precisely to correct the clock, let me - let me be quite concise, since this is practically the same budget that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has voted in favour and, therefore, in which she looks. The budget contains, according to the notes I have here, the set of measures we agreed with the NAP. I'm not going to read them all, I'm just going to identify the pages: they're one, two, three, four, five, six, seven and a half pages of measures agreed with the NAP and they're from Budget. The speaker displayed a copy of the State budget. That is certainly why you voted in favour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u181	I voted for abstention!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u182	That's why he abstained. In this field, we will certainly take into account the proposals that are being put forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u183	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a maximum of 4 and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u184	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to begin with a note on inflation. Mr Prime Minister said that she would be temporary and rely on the economists who also said so. I hope so too. I'm not an economist. I'm a historian. Economists like to make predictions and historians have the sad task of then noticing the missed forecasts. Economists don't know how hard war is, they don't know who's going to win the next elections for the U.S. Congress or the White House and, therefore, the obligation of politicians, whether they're economists or historians, is to make policies of caution and responsibility. I therefore understand when Mr Prime Minister tells us that the elections were a referendum on the Budget, because he tries to make the question about the binary budget, as if there were only the government's option to go to 1, 9 % deficit or the choice of other parties to want to go to 3, 2 % deficit, as if it were necessary to say to the markets and the European Union : « Attention, look at us violating the limits of the deficit before they enter into force! Do not keep on seeking. ” But there's a great space between one thing and another. Maintaining a deficit of 2, 5 %, for example, enables us to be comfortable below the limits of the deficit and creates a strike of more than EUR 1 billion to help combat inflation. Mr. Prime Minister tells us about Jorge Palma, who I also appreciate, but I would like to reply to him with Vinicius de Moraes: we do not know whether inflation is temporary, we know it is « eternal as long as it lasts». That is, as long as it lasts, it eats purchasing power, makes the month's end increasingly painful and infernal, because the salary is over and, when it accumulates in years and years of loss of labour income in relation to capital, it lasts too long. So there are two ways to deal with it, one is causing a recession — fortunately it is not in our hands, nor in our wills! — the other is to act on price formation. And there the government, for example, does it through a tax on oil products. I have already said here in debate, and it has not been denied, that it is an analgesic, it is not a cure. All right, there are many occasions when you have to take an analgesic, but cure is to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. Your parliamentary leader designates this Budget as an "an annex" to the last election campaign, and on the front page of this campaign—of course, it was the PS that won an absolute majority! — was: « Trust us, an absolute majority does not change anything in the availability to make commitments». Now, the electorate did not punish just one left that got in the way. My dear colleague Eurico Brillante Dias, let me tell you that "who warns a friend is" and that there is no more trench than an absolute majority. It looks like a very big trench and we don't even see that we're in the trench, but we are. The electorate, particularly the one on the left, has also chosen a European and ecological green left that has made proposals, including the proposal of Programme 3C — Home, Comfort and Climate, to reduce energy spending, help save the planet and give more dignity at home. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mr President, I have no trenches and I do not have, I am on the side of democracy and convergence on the left. We also proposed a fund to support the creation of an ecological school transport network, supporting municipalities, inter-municipal communities, metropolitan areas. We proposed the creation of a mission unit for the new green pact, the study of the four-day week, as is done in Spain, with 200 randomly chosen companies, realizing that the world of work has changed and that there are also gains to be made in terms of reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. I have heard a number of ministers and secretaries of state demonstrate openness to dialogue at this level, which I am very happy about, but now I have to go up to the level. In addition to opening up dialogue, there is a commitment to move to a phase of meetings and discussions, from a technical and budgetary point of view, to understand what the costs are, and can phase them into the Budgets for 2022 and 2023, taking advantage of the fact that this year, in a few months, we are going to be discussing two different budgets? If you answer that yes, then you will be fulfilling the face sheet of your campaign, not with the annex, not with the little letter, but with that part saying « trust us, an absolute majority does not change anything». If you kick to how much that means that, even though you deny it, you are in a trench and there being a trench with 120 Members is still a trench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u185	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u186	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, for me, it was enough for me to have the compulsory military service to meet the trenches, now I limit myself to the bench and arrive. With regard to the specific question on whether we have availability for working meetings, technical meetings, policies, of course, it is only to mark, I will have all the availability. However, there are two points I would like to mention: firstly, there is no doubt that the response to this crisis is actually speeding up and not slowing down the energy transition. The fundamental reason why we are with an inflation rate far below the euro area average is because we have decades of housework done and therefore we already have 60 % of our electricity to be produced with renewable energy. That is why the European Commission identifies Portugal as one of the countries of the European Union, which is in a better position to achieve carbon neutrality. What do we have to do? We must continue this work and continue to move forward. Why don't we have a coal price problem today and only gas? We have no problem with the price of coal because we anticipated, from 2023 to 2021, the closure of power generation plants from coal. If we were already gas-free, we didn't have the pressure. That is why we are fighting in the European Union so that we can decontaminate the price of gas price electricity. If this measure is approved as we have proposed, and by reference to prices in the first quarter of this year, we have a reduction of about 18 % on the costs of our electricity, which is a very significant impact. Therefore, the cure is really going to continue to advance and accelerate the energy transition. Last note, Mr Deputies, benefiting from his status as a historian, it has certainly been a history of how they have been managed — good or bad — inflationary tensions in the past. He certainly found that when they were well managed, they did not generate a spiral and that when they were mismanaged, they generated a spiral that, in turn, generated a recession. It is really this period of history that we do not want to repeat. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u187	Mr Prime Minister, the Bureau records more than 19 entries for requests for clarification, and Mr Prime Minister has already provided the information that he will respond in blocks of six plus six plus seven. Each request for clarification may not exceed two minutes, so, for the first request for clarification, Mr João Torres has the floor from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, the first part of this debate has made it very clear to all of us that there is a fundamental misunderstanding on the part of the opposition in the evaluation of this State budget. Both on the left and on the right, more or less clearly and clearly, accuse the Socialist Party and the Government of austerity. This debate is therefore an excellent opportunity to make it clear to the Portuguese that this accusation is an absolute falsehood. I would say, in fact, that it is an accusation that either on the left or on the right is not passed on to the cotton test and the Portuguese have memory and know - well. They know that austerity is to cut wages, austerity is not compatible with the updating of wages or progress in Public Administration ; they know that austerity is not compatible with the significant increases in the national minimum wage that the Government to which you are President has undertaken in recent years. The Portuguese have memory and know that austerity is cutting pensions, austerity is not compatible with an extraordinary increase in pensions to more than two million Portuguese with effects, in fact, retroactive to January 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u190	The Portuguese have memory and know that austerity is to increase taxes, it is not compatible with the increase in the minimum existence in the IRS, it is not compatible with IRS Young or with the collapse of the steps of IRS that this State Budget advocates. It would, in fact, be interesting if the oppositions, in particular the right, said what is the tax that is increased in this State budget,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u191	... because this State budget does not provide for any increase in taxes for Portuguese or businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Austerity, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the beginning, already mentioned today, of a free cycle of daycare facilities, nor is it so little that tax deductions are allowed for companies that invest most. I would also like to point out that we are living in a cycle of economic growth as we are today, and well, the Banco de Portugal has come to point out.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u192	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u193	We are not in recession, but we also do not run away with the truth to the Portuguese and we know well that this is a moment of uncertainty. We know that the times we live in are not easy and the government — and well! — continues not to promise everything to everyone. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate you on reaffirming the importance of rigor and credibility for our country. It is absolutely crucial that we continue to bet on certain accounts, because it is the same rigour that best protects us in the future, but also better amplifies the government's margin of manoeuvre to intervene and to intervene in the context of a climate of great uncertainty that we, as I have already pointed out, do not deny. Also there the Portuguese know and recognize the government actions that since the first hour have sought to mitigate the impacts and effects of both disruption in supply chains, or more recently within the framework of the consequences of the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. The Portuguese who are at home listening to us have felt and will feel even better in the next few days that, when they supply the fuels, the government is doing its part to relieve the cost. The companies and many of the entrepreneurs who listen to us today, particularly in the agri-food sector, know that the non-payment of VAT, moreover, the total exemption of VAT for the purchase of fertilizers and rations is important to contain and mitigate the impact on prices. This is because the best way to intervene in this inflationary crisis is to control the problem at its root and that is what the government has done consistently over the past few months and with particular incidence over the last few weeks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u194	Mr President, you are inflating your intervention time by almost 50 %. I therefore ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President, I will now be more deflationist. In conclusion, I would like to make the following analogy: if the comparison between an austerity State budget and a social state budget, which is the one you present here today, it would be a hobby to discover the differences, some opposition Members would fail roundly, but will not fail most Portuguese. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, lastly I ask you the following: already here you have undertaken to continue with an annual update of wages, in terms of which you have been used to us, but I ask you whether the other structural commitments in terms of income of the Government's Programme and the Socialist Party's Electoral Programme remain firm in the intentions of the Government to which you are presiding. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u196	Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, in general, informed the House today that he ruled for six years, had a majority, followed by a war in Europe and fired inflation. Finally, everything changes in the world, you change everything, except for one thing that is your State budget. It is a kind of "for the new world Old Budget". Portugal, six years after its governance, is a country that could be described with a phrase: here people go up in the career and as they go up in the career earn closer to the minimum wage. It is the country of minimums, it is the poorest country in which it pays most for everything and falls last. It is no longer worth explaining this to fall last, because we already realize that the PS does not want to understand and Mr. Prime Minister does not want to recognize and will say, finally, that the indicator is what it is. I'm worried about it and it gives me the will to change the country, it doesn't matter to you, it's all the same, it's all right. [[PSD applause.]] That's why the old budget comes, which no longer scares. This is because there came a pandemic that paralyzed the country for two years, but with the country stopped, Mr. Prime Minister, with resources and social availability even to change, the digitisation must have rotted there in one of the PowerPoints that Mr. Secretary of State brought here to Parliament and the ideas of Costa Silva — now vitamind the Minister — were also on the way and were even good ideas of taking public services to the inside. Mr. Prime Minister has to know, I hope, the impact that a public service changed to Sernancelle, to Moimenta da Beira, to Cinfanes, to Resende would have on those lands, but that will no longer have because it brought the old budget without these ideas. It is a worrying attitude, especially for people who are of my age and who are fed up with what the country has been for them. Mr. Prime Minister spoke recently about training. Young people do not emigrate because you are Prime Minister or because I am opposed, young people emigrate because they have been trained enough to realize that out there they have better opportunities than they have in here. [[PSD applause.]] The problem is not having opportunities out there, the problem is not having them in here, the problem is that those inside here are focused here on the imbalance that you have promoted in the country over the past few years. The people who are out there, who are looking at you and who are looking at us, are waiting for your signal to come back and your signal what was it? It was the old budget that took them opportunities and sent them out to look for them. That's the sign that you're bringing in, that's the old budget. [[PSD applause.]] Before, I understood, Mr. Prime Minister. He understood when Mr. Prime Minister had a left leg that doesn't like people making money, doesn't like businesses, doesn't like business, doesn't like development, doesn't like going up in life, finally, likes everything poor, let's say so! ...it wasn't your budget! But now it could be, Mr. Prime Minister, now it could be your Budget. It only seems to be contaminated with the tics of the Portuguese Communist Party, such as the tick known as « negation of reality ». It is good to note that the Communist Party, in the face of the international situation, cannot say « invasion ». You, in the face of the national situation, cannot say « reforms». Mr Prime Minister, please say'reforms'! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] I know it's hard to hear, but you guys support what you shouldn't support! I know one thing, Prime Minister: what you want Mr. Prime Minister to do, the country has to go with you and with your majority. We're on the same boat, therefore, and they gave you the motto, but Mr. Prime Minister insists not to drive the boat anywhere, to leave the boat exactly where he's going to jam. It has a majority, it has responsible and constructive opposition, it has resources, it has social will, it has basically the power to change. The big question is: do you want? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u198	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Rui Afonso, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u199	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, as a result of the pandemic situation, whose effects on the economy are still taking place and will be felt in the coming months or years, aggravated by the situation of the war in Ukraine, with direct reflections on the rise in energy prices, fuel, food goods, Portugal has recorded in March this year an inflation rate of 5, 3 %, the highest since June 1994.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u200	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u201	Core inflation, which excludes energy and unprocessed foods, i.e. goods with more volatile prices, is also 3 % above the European Central Bank ( ECB ) forecasts. To aggravate this situation for the citizens' portfolio, it is expected that the ECB will increase interest rates, referring to several analysts who are expected to raise at least 1 %. in this context, the compression of purchasing power, caused by inflation, brings together the risk of many families entering into non-compliance with financial institutions regarding the payment of loans made for the purchase of permanent own housing. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If not in times of economic normality, in times of crisis where the living conditions of the citizens are worsening, where it is foreseeable that this situation will spread over time, it is necessary to intervene by the State in order to ensure that the basic needs of its citizens are met, as is the case with housing, and to that end the necessary resources are allocated. On the other hand, if the Recovery and Resilience Plan, in the housing component, already emphasizes the need to respond to the structural and permanent or temporary deficiencies in the field of housing, as a way of mitigating the economic and social impact of the pandemic crisis, this demand is now more relevant, depending on the consequences of the war in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u203	Within this framework, I ask you, Prime Minister, if you will not be able to respond to the proposed temporary suspension of the IMI (municipal property tax ), which our party presents, particularly to the middle class, since it only aims to exempt the house from this tax of permanent property value of less than EUR 350 000. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u204	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u205	Mr President, Prime Minister, recently in response to the Liberal Initiative, said that the eastern countries grew more because they had higher education 15 years ago. Then he congratulated himself, and the PS, for, in 15 years, they put education at the same level, and I ask: then why does Portugal not grow at the same level as these Eastern countries? Oh, my God! It is that, in a minute, Mr. Prime Minister managed to give an argument and refute his own argument. In a minute! Open... Today, I have three questions for you about your European affairs. The first relates to the fact that yesterday I was really shocked, knowing that you do not want to come to the House to give clarification as a Minister. I am sorry, but you cannot simply send Mr Secretary of State, because the Rules of Procedure clearly say that they have to be ministers — they are not members of the government — they are ministers — to come four times to committees, including in the State Budget. I am therefore sorry, but if you want the benefits of European affairs and a future path to Europe, you must also have responsibilities. [[Applause from the IL.]] Especially since we are in a war context, the Committee on European Affairs will certainly not remain without a minister, probably dealing with the most important issue of today, which is the war in Ukraine. I therefore ask you very quickly whether you are going to violate the Rules of Procedure or whether you are going to comply with the Rules of Procedure and come to Parliament, whether you are going to accept and comply with the rules or whether you are going to break the rules. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Secondly, in the last approved budget, the Liberal Initiative was able to approve the creation of the More Transparency portal, of European funds, only with the vote against the PS. Unfortunately, that portal doesn't have everything in the law. For example, effective beneficiaries are missing, the level of real-time implementation, among other things. And the very quick question, too, that I address to you is this: when will the government comply with the law and update the portal? Again: will you comply with the rules or will you run from the rules? Thirdly — and I shall finish, Mr President, by trying to fulfil the time available — in the framework of the war in Ukraine, when will the Government make a list of all the associations which, in Portugal, support the Russian regime, some of which have already been denounced by the Embassy of Ukraine? I would also like to know whether or not I agree with the proposal of the Liberal Initiative to suspend all public support, whether subsidies or tax exemptions, to associations supporting the Putin regime. It is that Portuguese taxpayers certainly cannot be financing support for Putin. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u206	For a request for clarification on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, this Budget is the choice of the Government of the Socialist Party. And the Government insists on presenting a proposal for a budget which continues to refuse the solutions advocated by the CFP, which now become even more necessary. The refusal of solutions in public transport and in support of MPMEs (micro, small and medium-sized enterprises) are flagrant examples of this option. With the decisive intervention of the CFP, the cost reduction of the social pass and the integration of the different means of transport was made, the most important measure in terms of mobility and environmental protection. Why does the Government refuse to pursue this path with measures for free public transport up to the age of 18 years and to consolidate the ART, moving forward in reducing the value of the social pass to its gratuity? Why does the Government refuse solutions to strengthen the supply of public transport throughout the territory, including in the regions of the interior, where transport is scarce? It is that the funds for the strengthening of inland transport, the PROTransP (Prosupport Programme for the Densification and Strengthening of the Public Transport Offer) remain far from what is necessary. With regard to the MPMEs, the Government continues to refuse solutions to support micro and small businesses, safeguard their economic activity and jobs, which in some cases have not even recovered their activity in the aftermath of the epidemic and are already experiencing the consequences of the use of war and sanctions by the economic groups. The costs imposed on energy, fuels, banking commissions, insurance — sectors dominated by economic groups — are excessive in the MPMEs, i.e. economic groups that continue to accumulate profits at the cost of activity dynamized by micro and small enterprises. The current situation requires, as the CFP has defended, the increase in wages and pensions in order to defend purchasing power and the internal market, the control and fixing of prices and also requires concrete measures to directly support treasury. Why does the government refuse these solutions and why does it continue to leave the MPMEs at the mercy of the economic groups? Tell us there, Prime Minister, where in your budget are the solutions advocated by the CFP and what is so lacking in the country? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u208	For a request for clarification, Mr José Soeiro, from BE, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u209	Mr President, Prime Minister, who earns the minimum wage of 700 and few euros—in fact, a little more than 600 € of net salary—or a qualified young person who earns, in a company, an average wage of just over 1000 €, or a basic education teacher, a nurse at the beginning of the career, a policeman who has been working for 25 years, already knows what this Budget proposes: that he loses income, compared to the increase in prices. Mr Prime Minister and the Members of the Socialist Party can call you whatever you want. They can call international credibility, they can call prudence, consolidation, they can call Katia Vanessa, but when wages and pensions rise much less than prices, than the cost of living, there is only one name: impoverishment! More prolonged or less prolonged, the right thing, in this budget account, is that, for workers and pensioners, it is a impoverishment budget. These are the accounts that count for people and families. Mr Prime Minister has already repeated several times the same measures — from the steps of IRS to the progressions to which the public function is entitled, from the increase of pensions to the minimum of existence — but these measures, which were already planned, are not a response to inflation, are measures prior to inflation and none of them, as has already been said, has been updated taking account of the increase in prices. For this reason, pensioners will lose purchasing power — indeed, the Budget does not provide for an interim increase, unless it is already planned for January; the private workers will lose purchasing power, on the basis of the example given by the State itself to the Public Administration, and neither the increase in the minimum wage will allow the increase in prices of essential goods; the public service workers will take a cut in their income, and they have already lost 10%, on average, in the last 10 years, which have not been recovered, but will now get worse, because it all increases much more than the salary. This, Prime Minister, is not to strengthen the social state, because the strength, capacity, the qualification of public services that give content to democracy depends on their professionals, schools, hospitals, health centres, social security. It may well come from the Government or the Socialist Party with the overall numbers of public service that everything together always gives much less than the 4% of the projected inflation. One example, among many others: in the last two years, how many times have you asked the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ) to be in the front line, in response to the pandemic, in the monitoring of telework and, more recently, to help Ukrainian refugees? These workers have lost 34% of their income in the last decade. Don't open promotion contests 14 years ago, I repeat, 14 years! And even more inspectors have entered, but who's there knows how they've been treated and knows that they're going to lose income with this Budget. Mr. Prime Minister says, and it is true, that the government does not decree inflation. It is certainly not this Budget that decrees inflation. But this budget has an obligation to answer it, which it does not. In fact, by cutting off Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, I have noted that so far no one from the Government has suggested that we are facing the leftmost budget that Portugal has ever met. It was no longer so, but the appetite and exaltation of the early elections helped explain the delirium, and much less it is now, when, in the face of price growth, the proposal of this Budget is that workers pay the crisis, with the real loss of wages and with the increase of inequality. There, Mr. Prime Minister, we have already realized, after all, that it is that I wanted so much the absolute majority. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u210	To respond to this first block of six requests for clarification, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions. First, to make it clear, as Mr. João Torres has asked, the government is obviously committed to its Programme. And, as we discussed here, during the debate of the Government Programme, this Programme has an original sin, which is that of being the Electoral Programme of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party's Electoral Programme has a decisive commitment, which is the commitment to converge the weight of wages in gross domestic product with the European average. We have come to make this recovery and at present wages weigh 45 % of our gross domestic product. The aim is to reach the European average of 48 %. This would involve an increase of 20 % of wages in order to achieve this goal. It is an ambitious goal, but it is the goal that we are committed to pursue and we will do everything we can to achieve it. We have a law of four and a half years. We never promised that we would achieve this goal in the first six months of our governance. Let us pursue this objective! It is obvious that we are currently experiencing a situation of severe inflationist shock. In the last 12 months inflation has risen by 2, 3 %, but in recent months it has risen by 4 %, 5 %. What's going to happen next? What all international institutions say, and even national forecasts, is that this increase in inflation is transient, temporary and will start to reduce, for example, the IMF which is already 1, 5 % next year, and not 4 %, as expected for this year. It means that we are living in a transitional situation and, as such, we cannot adopt definitive measures for what is transitional, compromising the collective effort that Portuguese society has to make, on the basis of the social dialogue of collective bargaining, of social dialogue, in order to achieve this objective: to have a share of the wages in GDP equivalent to the average of the European Union. And this is decisive, for two fundamental reasons. First, to combat inequalities, there is greater equality in the distribution of income and to value work in the whole of national wealth. But there is another central reason, which is that we have a great design. And the great collective design that we have to take is to ensure that this new generation — so it makes a difference in relation to the 13 countries that have come before us, in qualifications, in 2004 — is the most accomplished generation in Portugal, and has here, in our country, as many or as good opportunities as it finds outside of it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the plan we must pursue. And this effectively implies not only a wage valuation, but also an approval of the decent work agenda — which is already on May 11 will go back to social consultation, and then come to the Assembly of the Republic — and adopt a set of measures that have non-monetary transfers, but which are decisive in improving and giving opportunities to new generations to live in Portugal as a new generation of housing policies, a free manual programme. Now, with this Budget, we will start with the daycare free process, beginning this year, with the first year, then with the second year, then with the third year. And we send a very strong message to those who have left Portugal to be able to return, which is precisely the Return Programme. This programme allows for five years an exemption of 50 % of Portugal's income in order to make available income compatible with available income in other countries, while at the same time giving businesses time to be able to adjust to a new reality they have to assume. It is that if they want to be competitive today they cannot be competitive only at the time of sale, they must be competitive at the time of hiring, because the hiring of talent and qualified human resources is absolutely crucial for the future of these companies. It is a joint work that the State has to do, between public policies and business fabric, to achieve this goal. Reform, yes! We need to make reforms and the biggest reform we have had in recent decades, Mr. Deputies, it was even this: to have reduced early school dropout,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u212	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u213	... which was more than 13 % in 2015 to 5, 9 % last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was the largest structural reform the country had. Mr José Soeiro and Mrs Paula Santos are both right. In fact, we have here the measures we agreed with the CFP and we do not have the measures we did not agree with the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u214	You don't have the ones you need!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u215	The difference remains and Mr Soeiro is right: we repeat the measures. Do you know what's called that? It is called consistency and respect for the commitments we have made with the voters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u216	So we moved on to the second block...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u217	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u218	I beg your pardon, Mr Bernardo Blanco, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u219	Mr President, I just wanted to make a point of order to the Bureau because they are requests for clarification...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u220	A point of order for the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, in what sense, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u221	Mr President, the requests for clarification, while they are called 'clarification'... It is that we asked three questions and we had zero answers and, therefore, unless we changed the name of'requests for clarification' to'requests without clarification'... The point of order was in this sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u222	The Bureau's understanding is that of the Members. Members are sovereign in the questions they ask and Mr Prime Minister is sovereign in the answers he gives. About the second block... [[IL protests and PS counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u223	Three questions! Zero answers! It's the absolute majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u224	At least before, they were trying to disguise!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u225	With regard to the second block of requests for clarification, the first Member is Mrs Jamila Madeira, of the Socialist Party, to whom I give the floor, asking them to create conditions for us to hear the honourable Member. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u226	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, other members of the Government, Dear Members, this is indeed the Budget of the Commitment, is a budget based on ambition, prudence and the commitments we have made during the election campaign that brought us until 30 January. It is the Budget that the opposition has rejected and that the Portuguese and Portuguese have asked for and with which the PS has committed itself. It is a document with present and future, with commitment and with certain accounts, with the strengthening of the sustainability of the social state and with guarantees of international credibility. It shows ambition, in the line that has always been the grip of this government, since 2015, never giving up believing in our country and building paths that ensure that no one stays behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u227	Just the Algarve!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u228	Only by supporting people, companies, reducing unemployment, strengthening the fight against poverty, restoring and increasing incomes, promoting investment and economic growth will we continue to improve people's living conditions. And so this budget is a fair budget. It is a budget that has since January an extraordinary pension increase of €10 for pensions up to €1108 ; provides for the guarantee for childhood for 123 000 children; strengthens the family allowance for 400 000 children; increases the minimum existence; creates two new steps of IRS and IRS Young ; increases the deduction for the second child ; and ensures the free daycare in the first year, strengthening and extending the daycare response; has more investment, plus PT2030 ( Portugal 2030 ), plus PRR. It has essential elements for convergence and for us to continue to grow. But it is also a prudent budget and, therefore, as at the beginning of the pandemic, I assume that we have uncertainty—and we have a lot of uncertainty—but we keep the focus on consolidating public accounts and on the right accounts, so as not to lose all the effort of the path we have made so far. To be prudent means to be active in the emergency and this budget incorporates EUR 1800 million to mitigate the geopolitical shock. We naturally have to follow these measures and evaluate them, supporting and continuing to support the most vulnerable families, energy billing, all the energy impact and all the impact on the food chain. And what does the right tell us? What brings us right? What do we know on the right? We know that the parties that now preach great concern about safeguarding workers' and families' incomes were those who, a few months ago, even in the election campaign, defended that this had to be resolved first for the supply and then for the demand.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u229	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u230	And it's important to remember that, since you guys are. Members are clearly forgotten about this. First, they said it was necessary to strengthen production and only then eventually reduce and move into the IRS in the last two years of the Legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u231	Exactly! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u232	Those who said that the investment was short, or who now say that the investment was short, announced that it was better to review the PRR. And we all know how demanding is the schedule of compliance of the PRR and all the risks of uncertainty of its compliance that this would introduce. But we also remember that in 2012 with 2 % inflation rates and 124 % public debt levels, the right in taxes. The right, all this right, without exception, suspended the holiday allowance; he cut Christmas allowances; he cut public officials; he cut pensioners; he increased the VAT rate of the restaurant and many other products; he froze wages; he reduced deductions in IRS; he created an overtax; he promoted the so-called state reform, cutting, cutting, cutting! He cut more than 1000 million in SNS, assuming he was going to cut more than 600 million in pensions. This is the austerity that you are afraid of, but that was even the austerity that you would apply. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not the PS recipe! The PS revenue is a revenue of economic growth, it is a recipe that safeguards the living conditions of families, keeps the accounts right and ensures that we have a budget with present and future and that, of course, has the confidence of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u233	For a request for clarification, Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u234	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr President, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. Mr. Prime Minister, not deviating from the Budget, but deviating from the central topic that has been examined, I wanted to talk to you about internal security and I wanted to talk to you about the SEF (Foreign and Border Service) and its extinction project, which has been dragging itself for months as a government intention, already from the previous and that it has not yet been able to complete. I would like to talk to you about this because still yesterday this Parliament approved a proposal from the Government, in the sense of a further postponement of the extinction of the SEF. I would also like to talk to you about this, because Portugal and Europe are in the arms of a humanitarian crisis, a refugee crisis. Portugal has already had to accept 33 000 Ukrainian refugees — and very well — and by doing so, of course, it has made this issue of the greatest importance, also with a budgetary framework. And I would like to congratulate you on this, Prime Minister, because I am actually convinced that you will enter history. If we know that the holiday period legis, which is that period between publication of a law and its entry into force, has a maximum of 45 days, this law, which you approved here, five months ago, and for which, yesterday, you have requested an extension for another period of time, is already in 157 days. I believe, therefore, that you will be included in the Law History books with the longest holiday period leis. [[PSD applause.]] [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u235	But let's ask ourselves why. Why is the government taking all this time to bring this policy into force? It says the government is because of the COVID-19. Strange, Mr Prime Minister, because, when you approved here in November, this restructuring, which is in fact an extinction of the SEF, there was already COVID-19, in fact, in November, until it was over. But now the government says more recently than not, which is because of the lead of the State budget. The argument may even seem logical, but strange, Prime Minister, because when you approved the extinction of the SEF, the State budget had already been dropped and at the time they wanted in the same 60 days. In the meantime, they asked for more 180 and now more than necessary. [[PSD applause.]] This, to say that, in fact, Mr. Prime Minister, is not one of these arguments. The only argument is that you did not have a real conscience of the undertaking you were applying for. The truth is that you had no idea what this meant in terms of changes in the internal security system. And I must say, Prime Minister, that the PSD well warned—and I said well here—that 60 days was insufficient. The words were more or less these. I don't see how you gentlemen in 60 days can do this. We were right and you were proud to think you could do this on a stalemate. And what happens so far is that, unfortunately, we are watching, postponement after adjournment, the clear manifestation of the government's impreparation on this matter. But, Mr Prime Minister, why is the government doing restructuring, reform, extinction of the SEF? Why? I will use, if I may, your own words here in the Government Programme. Mr. Prime Minister said — his words — that the extinction of the SEF was neither an imposition of the Left Block, nor an inspired idea of Minister Eduardo Cabrita, « (...) was a measure that included the Election Programme of the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party in 2019. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u236	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u237	But it's not, Mr. Prime Minister! I'm sorry! It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u238	Oh, yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u239	And you know why it isn't? Because here is the Socialist Party's Election Programme and, if you like, even here is the Government's Programme. And I'm going to read, because they say the same thing. It says: "Setting a very clear organic separation between police and administrative functions. » That is, you ask yourself... [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u240	Take it easy! Are you speaking here, somewhere, how should I say, if that was the intention, in extinction of the SEF? Nothing! Nothing! [[PSD applause.]] Are you talking here somewhere about transferring skills to other police forces? Nothing! What we're talking about here is just an organic separation between two types of functions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u241	And what is an organic separation?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u242	... which is the subject to which you have been neglectful—are there more amusing, now, to want to interrupt my speech—and that it is even perceived that it is transversal in this Parliament. The problem, Prime Minister, is that the PS Electoral Programme, as well as the Government Programme, was « hidden cat with tail outside ». In other words, you have used—in fact, your stamp—an euphemistic semantic to extinguish the SEF, which is what you have always wanted to do, and you have never had the courage to recognize that it was what you wanted. [[PSD applause.]] And I must tell you that it remains the same in terms of the State budget. [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u243	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u244	I will finish, Mr. President. What did the State Budget drop in October last year say? He said (...) the process in progress with the restructuring of the Foreign and Border Service. Do not keep on seeking. ” I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. What does this State Budget say now? It says (...) proceedings under way with the termination of the Foreign and Border Service. Here's your strategy, here's what you always wanted, here's, so that everyone knows that they were saying something in the Government Programme and, in fact, they always wanted to do something else. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u245	I greet the ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the members of the Government and I give the floor to Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u246	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, promises, promises and more promises are what we have withdrawn from the reading of the State budget that this government has presented us for defence. In recent years, between what is promised or, if you prefer, budgeted and what is executed, in defense and not only, there is an abismal difference. The war in Ukraine has shown that the defence remains a current issue, that cannot be neglected, and we note once again that the government promises, promises, promises, but does not comply with it! To that end, it is enough to think of the commitment made to NATO of 2 % of GDP for defence, which we do not know how or when Portugal will meet. What is your government's timetable for honouring our commitments to our allies, Prime Minister? And don't talk about the increase in defence, because just look at the value of GDP and confront it with the defence budget, so that we can see that what I said recently is not true. In defense, in addition to the material and organizational deficiencies, which is consensual to be one of the problems and challenges of the Armed Forces, these do not prove attractive as a career. That is why, Prime Minister, I question myself, and I ask you, too, how this government wants to value people in the service of national defence, prepare the Armed Forces for future challenges and promote a culture of security and defence. I also found the reference, in the State budget, to the invitation for weeks of exercise for the younger. Mr. Prime Minister, let's be serious: the Armed Forces don't even have enough money to run their operational exercises. So I ask you: will you continue to insist on the same strategy and expect different results? More than 6000 military officers are missing in the Armed Forces, but this is not even poured into the money for salaries. Mr Prime Minister, I ask you: does the Government really want to value the Armed Forces and their human resources? And if so, how will you recruit and pay those soldiers? Mr. Prime Minister, it is not enough to whip these people with promises and leave them with a hand full of nothing. I challenge you to answer my questions and not do what you did to my benchmate Bernardo Blanco. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u247	You have the floor to ask for clarification by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, this budget continues to refuse central solutions to the country's structural problems. This is an example of the refusal of measures to combat poverty that give fundamental answers to the problems of poverty affecting children, workers and reformers. It is not with social assistanceism that confronts this social scourge, nor the present moment, in which families are confronted with a brutal increase in the prices of essential goods and services. Combating poverty requires the fight against its structural causes and, without prejudice to social emergency measures that must be taken at the same time, it is necessary to act at the root of situations of poverty. It is urgent to fight structurally against children's poverty by valuing their parents' wages, ending with precariousness, guaranteeing employment with rights and combating speculation in goods and services, which fills the pockets of the economic groups at the expense of the impoverishment of our country's families. It is necessary to strengthen social protection, particularly in the contribution scheme. Unemployment benefit must be valued to be an effective social protection for workers in this situation. And, in addition to fixing the minimum threshold for this benefit, it is necessary to improve the conditions of access, increase its values and prolong its payment time. Why does the government continue to refuse these solutions, Prime Minister? Family allowance, which is not a provision to combat poverty, is a right of the child, still does not cover hundreds of thousands of children. The denial of the universality of family allowance is the denial of a right to these children and the guarantee for childhood does not resolve this, Prime Minister. It is essential to realize the freeness of day care centres, which has been in the law since 2021, but it is necessary to invest in the creation of a public network of day care centres, a decisive measure to respond to the shortage that exists and which goes well beyond the 10 000 places that the Government proposes to extend in the social and solidarity sector. Why does the Government refuse solutions in all these matters? Why does the government refuse these solutions, which are urgent for the children of our country, for the parents and for the working mothers of these children, many of them subject to impoverishment, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u249	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Costa Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, have already heard and will hear in this debate good speeches on the condition of youth. I already said Rui Veloso, «Being young is not a place». But there are many diagnoses, what needs are solutions and that is what this Budget offers to our generation. I know that they say « now it is», ignoring how in six years we have reduced young unemployment, we have reduced early school dropouts and raised wages, or say that « failure to meet », as if it were not normal and even desirable that investments such as public housing would be well thought-out, structured and executed, but what they will not, of course, be able to say is that this is a budget without concrete and meaningful measures for young people. Are you going to tell a young man who needs a master's degree in order to realize his professional dream that doesn't make the difference the master's scholarships multiply by three? Are you going to tell a young man who wins 1000 € / month that, at the end of the year, the 400 € that will win with the IRS Young make no difference? Or say there that young families will have no other perspective on having children, when they no longer pay for day care or benefit from more family allowance, more deductions from the IRS. Say that they will be indifferent to the investment in homes and housing, in public transport or mental health, the reform of Gate 65, the extension of the Return Program. Of course, at the end of this, they will say « not enough, do not solve». But does anyone think that problems with these complex, cross-sectional, rooted, settle on one sitting alone? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u251	12 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u252	For some, in fact, problems always have the same answer: taxes are lowered and abracadabra! It's liberal illusionism! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u253	Mr. Prime Minister, the country has to thank you for not just saying that young people are the future, moved from words to action and presented real and relevant answers for our generation, and we are still only going into the first budget of this legislature. I ask you, therefore, whether, in the specialization process and in the next budgets, you are available to continue to reinforce this answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u254	You now have the floor to ask for clarification from the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Sérgio Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u255	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as a member elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira, are motivated by my desire to contribute to a logic of greater cooperation, solidarity and understanding between the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government. The political and ideological differences that naturally exist between both governments should not be hampered by this desire. Above these differences should be the conjugation of the defence of national interest with the defence of regional interests. this conjugation and balance will result in a strengthening of the national unity and the bonds of solidarity between all Portuguese, constitutional objectives that we should all pursue. In this regard, I recall the solidarity of the Republic, on the occasion of the devastating and tragic floods in Madeira in 2010, embodied in a law of means that allowed the reconstruction of our region. And register, recognized, the relevant contribution made by the then Secretary of State, Fernando Medina, so that the law of means had been a reality. It is this logic of solidarity, of partnership and cooperation, which must prevail and which has failed, it must be said, Prime Minister, in the context of the greatest crisis in our lives, caused by the pandemic. If the national GDP fell by about 8 % in Madeira, the fall reached 14 %. After the Algarve, we were the region that suffered the most impact of the pandemic. And, Prime Minister, in the face of such economic and social devastation, do you know what the Government's response was? Not a single endorsement of the Republic was provided to deal with the region's keen loan to deal with the pandemic crisis. But, Prime Minister, in this new political framework, we are now confident in another position, so I ask whether there is an opening by the Government in the context of the speciality discussion to be dealt with favourably with some issues of relevant interest to Madeira. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u256	To clarify, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u257	Mr President, I welcome Mr Adam Silva for the new functions within this House which allow us to have a smaller dialogue between us, but certainly ensure a high quality of the Presidency of the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. André Coelho Lima, it is true to note that the PSD disagreement is not in relation to the fact that there is an organic separation between the administrative functions and the police functions, but that the PSD would accept that there was another police officer, called SEF, and does not trust that the Public Security Police, the Republican National Guard and the Judicial Police are in a position to assume the police functions currently carried out by the SEF.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u258	So why aren't they already? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u259	I am amazed, perplexed and curious: why is it that the Judicial Police are unable to assume the competences of criminal investigation that are exercised today by the SEF? Why are the Public Security Police or the Republican National Guard not able to perform the border guard functions currently exercised by the SEF? Why aren't you capable, sir? Explain! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Patrícia Gil Vaz asks the question of not knowing the commitment we have made with NATO. It is strange, because it is a commitment that was presented in writing in 2018, which has a calendar, and this calendar has been fulfilled, as I could remember recently. The commitment we made was that we first reached 1, 66% of GDP at national defence costs by 2024. Depending on our capacity to mobilise European resources, we are committed to reaching 1, 98 % of GDP in 2024. This is the compromise we have signed, which we have timed and which we have come to fulfil, and which, as I have already had the opportunity to remind us, now puts us at 1 55 % of GDP, in accordance with NATO, very ahead of the generality of the European countries, except for France, Greece for its own reasons and the generality of the countries of Eastern Europe. It is true that we have a problem and we must be careful about making the military career a more attractive career. Fortunately, in recent years we have managed to have in either 2021 or 2020 a growth of 1000 cash/year in the Armed Forces. In the two competitions we have opened in the last two years, we have had more than 10,000 candidates for a total of 3000 admissions. But we know that it is necessary to find motivation measures for this career and there is a set of measures that have been adopted, in particular, a fundamental one, which is to align training within the Armed Forces with the national qualification system, so that those who conclude the contract can resume their civil life, having duly valued the qualifications obtained in fulfilling the contract in the Armed Forces. Secondly, the need for intermediate-duration contracts for specific functions and even the establishment of a permanent framework of squares, for some technical functions which are not justified solely under contract. As you know, until now only the Navy has permanent frameworks and what is contained in the Government Programme is the creation of permanent frameworks both in the Air Force and also in the Army. With regard to what Mrs Diana Ferreira has said, I would like to stress the following: the fight against poverty is a priority and it is a priority which must mobilize the whole of society. And it is an endless fight, in addition to more because the poverty threshold itself is evolving, fortunately, because of the overall increase in income. The poverty threshold is 60% of the median income of an equivalent adult and therefore only between 2015 and 2020, rose from €5269 to €6653. The measure of the free-of-charge of day care centres, which was approved at the end of 2021, is already planned in this Budget, in accordance with the agreement with the CFP. Let's start next year with the first year...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u260	What about the public network? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u261	... in 2023 / 2024, with the second year and, in 2024 / 2025, will be covered every three years. As for the Guarantee for Children, which is planned for the first time in this State budget, it will recover from the situation of extreme poverty about 123 000 children.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u262	This does not solve structural problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u263	With regard to the income of parents, the measures envisaged, whether in the form of social benefits or the value of wages, are also intended to do so. I draw attention to the fact that the national minimum wage has risen 6 % and therefore even in the worst inflation increases scenarios for this year, it has risen above this inflation scenario.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u264	10 % of workers are in poverty!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u265	To combat this rate of poverty at work, it is absolutely essential to combat precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u266	Eradicate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u267	... which will result from the legislative package of the Agenda for Dignified Work, because, as you know, this situation occurs because there is intermittent, throughout the calendar year, in the exercise of labour functions. With regard to the last question, very quickly, because I have already exceeded my time, I just want to tell Mr Sérgio Marques that the opening is complete, but the formulation of some questions requires a supplement, which is to know what the issues are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u268	We will move on to the third and final block of requests for clarification to Mr. Prime Minister. To request clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u269	Mr President, I would like to point out, firstly, that this question was put to the Bureau that Mr. Prime Minister did not answer the questions put by Mr. Bernardo Blanco, of this bench. So I will repeat these questions, so that, if it has been for distraction, Mr Prime Minister can now answer. The first question I would like to ask again is whether the Prime Minister is going to violate the Rules of Procedure or whether he is going to attend the hearings as a Minister with the European affairs portfolio. The second question I ask is whether the government will comply with the law and update the Transparency portal. The third question I am also asking is whether the Portuguese State will suspend tax subsidies and exemptions to Russian entities or organizations because we believe that it makes no sense to finance Putin's regime. Then we spoke here very much — and with particular enthusiasm, in the case of Mr Costa Matos — about youth, young people, the wonderful horizons that open up with this government for young people. I would like to present some figures, Prime Minister, and ask you the following: since the Regressar Programme was put into practice in 2019, I believe that it was in July, how many applications were approved during this time, which goes for almost three years? By continuing to talk about young people and radio horizons, I read the budget report, with regard to the sustainability of social security, and I also had the opportunity to exchange some impressions with the Minister of Labour and Social Security, at her hearing, when she was here, and what is clear is that several measures have already been taken. Mrs. Minister likes to focus on what has happened in recent years, but I would like to look at the future. What the report says is that, from 2030 onwards, social security will have a deficit and will start using the Financial Stabilization Fund ( FET ) to cover the hole that will be dug and also states that by 2050, there will be no revenue from social security covering the expenditure and that the Stabilisation Fund will be exhausted. Therefore, I would like to ask whether this magnificent horizon designed for young Portuguese people is that of returning to or continuing in a country that, in particular with regard to social security — for those who are today twenty-eight years old, thirty or forty years old and are in the middle or early career — has no resources to pay them the reforms from 2050 onwards. Is this a prospect that Mr. Prime Minister considers encouraging? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u270	For a request for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u271	Mr President, Dear Members of the Government, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is by the Portuguese that widely recognized that local democratic power is one of the greatest achievements of April and one of the greatest successes of our democracy. The proximity, contact, knowledge and adequate response, from the governor to the governor, does not find a better model in our country than that of the relationship between the author and the citizen. For this reason, Mr. Prime Minister, for the Socialist Party, there has been, and well, an increasing increase of competence for the authorities in noble areas, in key areas such as education, health, housing and also social intervention. This is the necessary reform, it is the reform that loosens centralism, it is the reform that strengthens the quality of the local public service, it is the reform that increases the scrutiny and changes the paradigm. That is why we are complying with the Local Finance Act, so we are decentralizing, with more means, with more resources, universally, providing for a Financing Fund for Decentralisation which is budgeting at EUR 832 million this year and which will reach EUR 1 billion in a full year, approaching the European average. The transfers from the State budget to local authorities thus show an increase of 24, 2 % as a result of this transfer associated with the Fund. It is also emphasized that there has been an open, frank, permanent dialogue with the Portuguese municipalities, with the ANAFRE (National Association of Freguesias ), who participated and actively participate in this reform, having full respect for the independence of these associations, which have an intransigent defence history of the population, the decentralization and the autonomy of the local power. The history of ANMP (National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) and that of ANAFRE speak for themselves. We are therefore ensuring closer proximity, as a key element in affirming equal opportunities, social justice and solidarity in policy development. Mr. Prime Minister, in a contextual framework which is guided by uncertainty and inflation, the importance of the updating and adjustment mechanism enshrined in Article 82. the State Budget, which aims to update, throughout the year, the values for decentralization? By concluding the process of achieving decentralization in 2022, it is true that it will continue the path of consolidating the transfer of competences to the authorities, because this is the way that better serves people, their concrete problems, and this is a budget of concrete answers that makes us move forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u272	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u273	To deepen the areas of decentralization, identifying new domains for the CIM (intermunicipal communities), for the municipalities and for the parish is the challenge that is required, by more local power, for better democracy, for better Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u274	For a request for clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u275	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government tells us that this budget is adjusted to the environment, which prioritizes young people and social cohesion, but this is a budget that keeps most of the problems of education. It is true that the government has decided to call teachers and allow time to be completed to respond to the 28 000 students without teachers today. It recovered, and well, a recognized proposal from the CFP; it could have done it sooner and reduced the damage to the pandemic. By now, I could also take advantage of the balance sheet and take other measures to which the CFP has insisted. For example, link even the 5000 teachers, instead of doing renovations; value the teaching career; integrate teachers with three or more years of service; build another national competition; review wage conditions and evaluation; bottom line, solve the problems of public school instability. The public school is in a situation of rupture at various levels. With regard to the employees in need, the government "washs hands like Pilates" and transfers responsibility to the municipalities without the corresponding means. With regard to specialized technicians and technicians, such as school psychologists, it is incomprehensible that this budget fails, considering all that is known and all that is involved in the mental health of young people. In higher education, it does not go beyond the minimum with the compensation of the financing corresponding to the difference of the charge in propines before its reduction. But this does not solve the problem of underfinancing, it does not allow to end the tips nor solve the lack of social action at school. On residences, the question is the following: what is the credibility of government announcements after the provision of the National Housing Plan to date? A word on culture: we are still much less than 1% of the Culture Budget, an urgent one. This proposal does not aim to create a public service of culture, does not encourage its democratization, does not create conditions of stability and work with rights, does not value the arts. In both culture and education, we have to ask, Prime Minister, how can you refuse the answers, the really relevant measures, in the face of problems that are so obvious. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u276	For a request for clarification, Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u277	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are the negationists of the pandemic, there are the negationists of the war, but there are also the negationists of the Community funds, those who question the role and the good or bad management of the Community funds. But the fact is that the country has facts, studies and objective data which demonstrate, very clearly, the very positive impact of the Community funds on the country and the improvement of the quality of life of the Portuguese. Portugal has been recognised by the European institutions as a good example in the management of Community funds, specifically under the leadership of the Prime Minister. At present Portugal 2020, Portugal is in the leadership of countries with a higher volume of implementation of European funds compared with those with programmes with more funds. With regard to the Recovery and Resilience Plan, according to the European Commission, the PRR is, and I quote, « a robust and ambitious plan », with strong « control mechanisms »...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u279	...and with reforms. So the challenge now is to realize, and that is what is being done. The PRR is on the ground and it is even strange that no one has really talked about the PRR so far. It's a sign that we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u280	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u281	And so we have the positive history of the country. But the largest package of European funds ever for Portugal, which Mr. Prime Minister successfully successfully negotiated in Europe, is an added responsibility. We'll all collectively have to do even better and better. This is a responsibility which calls on all: to convene the Government, the institutions that manage the Community funds and also public and private promoters in the implementation of the candidatures. But it also calls on the political parties, who must make their contribution. That is why, yesterday, a proposal from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for the establishment of a specific subcommittee for the monitoring of Community funds was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Yes, scrutiny and transparency are priorities for Portugal to continue to be an example in the application of Community funds and, in particular, of the RPP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is about the PRR, Mr. Prime Minister, that I leave two questions to you for consideration: first, what is the situation of the implementation of the PRR, which is already on the ground, with several open and ongoing warnings? Secondly, how can the PRR make Portugal a more competitive, more cohesive country in a more future country? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u282	For a request for clarification, Mr. Paulo Moniz, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u283	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the island of São Jorge, in the Azores, debate, two months ago, with a strong earthquake-vulcanic crisis, with adverse effects from the economic and social point of view, and with the displacement of people, and the rest of the year will, predictably, be extremely difficult. It is therefore essential to take immediate measures that can mitigate and mitigate these effects, among which I stress the exemption, even this year, from the social contribution of companies and entrepreneurs with fiscal residence in São Jorge. The budget we are discussing here is less than EUR 20 million compared to the previous one, as far as the Azores are concerned. It will tell me that it is the failure to comply with the law of regional finances, and it is true, but it is an unfair circumstance, in view of the need for economic recovery from a pandemic. This undoubtedly proves what I said last time, i.e., the revision of the regional finance law is absolutely imperative. With regard to the replacement of submarine cables, the Regional Azores Assembly unanimously approved last week a draft recommendation for this process to move forward rapidly, not only in connection with the continent but also in connection with the islands. I remember that both this project and support for the University of the Azores, the construction of a new chain for Ponta Delgada, the increase of the Horta track and the decontamination of the soils and aquifers of the Third Island emerge, Budget after Budget, inscribed in articles—some will alternate and disappear—but without the corresponding words for its realization. This is a budget of austerity for the Azores, a strict budget that does not help us recover, contrary to what Mr. Prime Minister said. By paraphrasing the intervention that you made, from the rostrum, when you said that this budget had concrete measures for people in more than EUR 1300 million, the question I leave to you, Prime Minister, is the following: with this statement, with this value, how does it interpret the reality that I spoke to you, and in concrete terms for the Azores, it does not include anything? To that end, I would like to make our firm intention to propose the necessary amendments so that what does not have cabimentation is properly guarded and contemplated. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u284	You now have the floor to make requests for clarification on behalf of the PS, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by commenting on Mr Sérgio Marques' speech, which is very timely, firstly, to tell you that it is welcome to the debate on cooperation and dialogue. The Government of the Socialist Party and its Members have always called for such dialogue and cooperation over the past few years because we are sure that the results are always better when the dialogue is frank and honest in the context of negotiations between the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government. Let me also tell you, Mr President, that you are wrong when you only identify the solidarity of the Socialist Party's Government with the media law. Yes, it was built by the current Minister of Finance, but curiously—I do not know if this House and even the Country will know—, at the end of 12 years, it has not yet been fully executed. It was so much money that, at the end of 12 years, EUR 1000 million had not yet been executed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr President, this solidarity is not exhausted by the law of the media. It is worth recalling, for example, the payment of the debt by former Prime Minister Antonio Guterres, worth EUR 500 million. It is also worth recalling the solidarity of the Portuguese State in 2017 when fires in Madeira amounting to EUR 100 million — matters that are still being executed, it is true! We still need to remember the hospital, a commitment of EUR 150 million that is being met by the State, that is to say, by the Government of the Socialist Party. And we must also remember — because you have forgotten! — the RPP for Madeira, which is a significant contribution of almost EUR 1 billion to the Madeirans. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand that you have deliberately concealed in your speech the law on regional finance, which you are not aware of. Members have already brought up a final debate. I understand that you did not bring her to this House, because, being true that it brought a reduction of 15 million euros, it is the responsibility of your party, which in 2013 made a law...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u286	In 2007!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u287	... and has changed -a. That law, which is having negative consequences for Madeira, has gone - no matter how much, Mr President! — voted in favour of the Members of the Madeira PSD. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u288	That is absolutely regrettable! We didn't want that law. The PS voted against, but you voted in favour of a law which is, of course, negative to Madeira. As regards the endorsement, Mr President, it is necessary to clarify that the endorsement that the regional government wanted, in the context of the pandemic, was requested almost at the end of the year, more or less in November. Now, the deficit in Madeira's public accounts for this year was EUR 70 or 80 million and anyone knows that it is very difficult to spend EUR 400 million, Mr President — I repeat, EUR 400 million! — even if it was to cover a deficit of EUR 80 million in two months. The truth is they didn't spend it. In other words, you had an endorsement of 250 million of the State budget, which, as a whim, did not want to use, and in 2022 you are already paying this loan, because you did not use it, with a debt service of 600 million euros for Madeira! That was a whim that harmed Madeira and Madeirans. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, allow me now to ask the questions which I have prepared and which I think are relevant. The PSD decided to bring the issue of austerity to the debate and it would be useful if the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group could make a contribution to helping the PSD itself understand this issue. While Mr. Members of the PSD spoke about the matter, I tried to find a figure, a drawing, to see if it would be easier for PSD Members to understand what this matter of austerity is, in fact, that — I think it is consensual — it means lowering expenditure and raising taxes. Well, what did I find more appropriate? I found the State Budget proposal for 2013, and I read some articles : in article 26. it is basically referred to as « remuneration reduction » ; in Article 27. it speaks in suspension of payment of the Christmas allowance; in Article 28. it refers to ‘suspension of the payment of the holiday allowance’;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u289	And so it was for several years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u290	... in Article 151. it speaks in « updating the moderate rates », implemented in Law No. 66 - B / 2012, which basically hinders access to the National Health Service ; in article 75. this is referred to as « suspension of payment of the holiday allowance or equivalents of retirees and pensioners » ; in Article 79. it speaks of the reduction of retirements and reforms; in Article 181. it speaks of the « Amendment of the Code of Tax on the Income of Collective Persons », i.e. a colossal increase in taxes, as you well remember ; and in article 185. we have the « Change in the Value Added Tax Code ». Mr Prime Minister, the first question I would like to ask you about this is the following: it is possible to find in the State budget this year an article with this characteristic and with this austerity dimension, with which you are able to find in the State budget this year. Are you guys so angry? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second question I wanted to ask you has to do with the companies, because I think it is very important to ask the Prime Minister whether Portuguese companies have ever had access to such a robust, versatile and well-funded programme to respond to what the right-wing Members also talk a lot about, i.e. the diversification of the Portuguese economy through innovation, but also through cooperation between universities and businesses and national and international cooperation—as is the case with the mobilization agenda programme, which is currently under way. So, as regards business-related issues, I ask you: was it the selective tax reduction strategy, that this government has been implementing, especially in relation to structural investment, alongside the creation of a business capitalisation mechanism—which was absolutely essential, following what the right and the PSD did, at the time of the previous crisis, which completely decapitalised companies — with consistent support, which generated historical maximum financial autonomy in businesses and foreign direct investment, as Mr. Prime Minister pointed out, and provided the significant increase in the production of investment in GDP and the proportion of exports in GDP? Curiously, that's what you guys are. Members on the right are always saying. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u291	Finally, to ask for clarification, Mr Bruno Aragão of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u292	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, being the last, may allow me to say that, after the way this debate took place and despite the last six years, there has been, in the opposition, an irritant pessimism. And perhaps it is this irritant pessimism that explains many of the criticisms made to the Budget, especially in the absence that it could have in support of companies and the competitiveness of the economy. In rigor, this narrative has nothing new. She was tempted in other contexts, such as that of the PRR, already mentioned here, but for these days and about the Budget, she always wins a new breath: more or less state? In fact, this is a rather convenient simplification, between more statisation or liberalism, ignoring, in fact, the objective of public policies. And let us give a concrete example: public investment has always leveraged private investment in research and development, but the opposite has also been absolutely true! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The opposite was absolutely true. Some, very close here, will remember-CL- it particularly and others, younger, make an effort to ignore it. In order to achieve 3% of GDP in research and development, strengthening the competitiveness of the economy, we find direct and concrete measures to encourage companies. There are proposals in this State budget such as a more favourable tax regime for patents — or patent box, if you prefer. In this State budget, there is a proposal for a review of the stock tax system options for technological start-ups, allowing even other prospects for its workers. So, Prime Minister, the question is concrete: is there, or is there not, in these policy options capable of placing Portugal — using its own expression — in the front stage of fiscal competitiveness for innovation environments? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u293	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I say the answers that the Liberal Initiative so much liked me to give to your questions: no, the government does not violate the Rules of Procedure ; yes, the Portal More Transparency is kept up-to-date; no, we do not finance Putin's regime. With regard to the really relevant issue which Mr Rui Rocha has raised, which has to do with the future sustainability of social security, this sustainability is ensured by public policies that promote employment, which promote improved income, which allow for increased contributions to social security. That's what's happened over the years and that's why, between 2015 and 2021, the social security revenue increased by 50%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even in those years of crisis, between 2019 and 2021, social security revenues continued to increase and, thanks to this increase, we extended the sustainability of the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security over 26 years. This means the following: these 26 years are the point where we are today and we will continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u295	We got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u296	We must continue to ensure that, when this generation arrives in turn — not only those who are 40 years old or 30 years old, but the generation of those who are 20 years old or 10 years old — have the right to social security, as my grandparents have, as my mother has and I hope my generation will also have. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by Mr Rui Rocha.]] On the question of culture, put by Mrs Alma Rivera, it is a great effort that the country has to make. I draw attention to the fact that, as I said in 2015, it is not enough to have a Ministry of Culture, it is necessary to have a government of culture and therefore we have a budget for culture that does not run out in the budget of the Ministry of Culture. That is why, even by withdrawing the funds for RTP ( Radio and Television Portugal ), which they have decreed, ope leis, that they are not words of culture—when much of it obviously has to be—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u297	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u298	... we must combine the investments made in other ministries and which are eminently cultural. From the Camões Institute and the policy of language to artistic training and education, which are central components of investment in culture, which has increased, over these years, with the goal that we have set by 2023, of 2 % of the discretionary expenditure of the State budget. Moreover, with greater ambition in the current Government Programme, we have extended this target to 2, 5 % of the discretionary expenditure of the State until the end of this legislature. Mr Nuno Fazenda asked us about the implementation of the PRR. At present, the implementation of the RPP already has 100 % of the investment contracted. All of the 38 2020 and 2021 milestones and targets were met, which in fact led the European Commission last Tuesday to approve the payment of the first payment tranche of EUR 1, EUR 16 billion. projects of a total value of EUR 4324 million are currently approved. Mr. Paulo Moniz raised a general question. As you know, cooperation with the Autonomous Region of the Azores has always been excellent, both with the previous governments and with the current ones — or, I would say, with the present ones, because the region is already going into the second government — and so on. This year, because it has to be now, the competition will be launched for the installation of the submarine cable that will bind the continent to the Third Islands, São Miguel and Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u299	The other side is missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u300	The other submarine cable connecting the islands has a longer duration, and therefore the competition does not have to be launched immediately. With regard to the questions raised by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Mr Bruno Aragão and Carlos Pereira, our fiscal commitment to promoting innovation and encouraging the creation of a favourable climate for business investment is indisputable. In conclusion, Mr Carlos Pereira, in fact, this budget is very different from what he has read. With the reading of this Budget it is clear what a austerity budget is and what it is not, but let us be very frank: if there were any doubt, there would be no better proof that this is not an austerity budget than the fact that the PSD has already announced that it will vote against it. [[PS laughter.]] It was a austerity budget and would be voted in favour of the PSD and the Liberal Initiative. Not only would it be voted in favour of what would be approved by acclamation, because what they really like is an austerity budget. Thus, what they do not like in this Budget is that it is not austerity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u301	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the stage of the talks. You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A quarter of the illiterate population and less than one person in every ten in high school, this is the heavy inheritance of the New State that we still pay. Our teaching system has been expanding for 48 years in a struggle against this lost time. Over the past 30 years, we have recovered a 50% early school dropout rate for a rate of less than 6%, but we could also talk about access to higher education and how in six years we have increased the number of students in universities and politics, even in pandemic crisis. To talk about these data is not to talk about numbers, it is to talk about life projects of people, men and women, and how the social state works and is lacking in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are years of investment, years of a clear bet on a country that knows that it has in education the foundations of its society. A society with freedom to choose, of all and not just of some, that faces inequalities, with freedom to err, to be, to challenge, without fear of the rule, of difference or irreverence. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been the real structural change of our society and we have done our part. Since 2015, the education budgets have grown by more than 30% and with this State budget the evolution is again in the order of 8%. In six years: we hired teachers, operational assistants, psychologists; we intervened hundreds of schools; we defrosted careers; we forced the autonomy of schools; we put an end to unnecessary association contracts; we started the process of decentralization of skills; we faced a pandemic; we launched a learning recovery plan; we invested in the future. Some are frightened by this future, whether by gender ideology, cultural Marxism, indiscipline, facilitation or "formerly it was good", in a school expression as an announcement of the apocalypse, of those who feel that the new times are always worse than the past. There are those who view school as a space for divisions, when it is a place for encountering differences. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u303	There are those who see at school a battlefield, when it is a community space. That is why we defend a social pact for education, around a plural, open, democratic, mobilizing vision, beginning, from the outset, in the fight against the lack of teachers. Let us be very clear, we do not expect consensus, but we hope that all those who ask for structural reforms will be open to change, that we understand, for once, that the country is required to be able to intervene on the teaching career without such a result in the impossibility of any advanced measure and that we can have a basis for understanding on essential issues for our education. We have already said what we saw: intervene on the recruitment of teachers, the initial training and the organization of the network, as well as improving the conditions of career activity. This is the way that we are in progress and that we renew with this State budget, with a desire to continue to build public school, in dialogue with a more just country, a country of science, culture and knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u304	Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u305	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The expression 'true accounts' has been constantly repeated and serves as a slogan for the Socialist Party, but in practice these certain accounts which the Socialist Party is claiming are only in a model and in a vision of State budget in which expenditure must be heavily covered by revenue. In practice, the true accounts of the Socialist Party in this State budget are only because it is charged with revenue and taxes, representing something that means financial repression. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, still days ago, in this same House, we celebrated April 25 and the end of political repression, but today we have a State Budget which clearly points the way for financial repression. The practice is very simple and has not changed from Government to Government of the Socialist Party: the whole economy that moves is to tax and if it continues to move, then it gives to increase the rate. It doesn't change much! Actually, it doesn't change much. As for what Mr Prime Minister said, that inflation is not included in the State budget, I must say that it is, yes. It is included in the expenditure and taxes that the Portuguese pay. Inflation is registered there and goes directly to the Government's pockets. What is not at least reflected there is the cost of inflation for Portuguese or the need to support classes that are in fact the most disadvantaged. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a government that feels comfortable to announce €5 per month for the food cabaz, when, a few days ago, Deco Proteste said that, between 6 and 13 April—only that week! — the increase in the food cabbage amounted to €6, 75. This is a government that feels comfortable with a heavy state budget—yes, heavy—but that weighs on families and not on Portuguese pockets. This is a government that feels comfortable and believes that inflation does not reach families, who have been expected to announce the free of charge of day care. However, then, no family with a child at least 2 years of age can access this free of charge unless it is on the first or second steps of the allowance. The measure actually turned out to be much shorter. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, remember your former parliamentary leader, Carlos César, when he announced specific cases such as the one of John and Mary, a couple, and remember the distinction he made. Now, if you have to rent a house, John and Mary will simply have enormous difficulties, because your Housing Base Law has failed. If John and Mary have a 2-year-old and want to put her on a daystand, your policy in this State Budget does not reach them. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in practice, if they try to have a housing response from this government, the only thing that John and Mary will find will be constant transfers from the Social Security Stabilization Fund to the National Building Rehabilitation Fund. These are constant transfers of EUR 50 million, which are also reflected in this State budget and which amount to a total of EUR 300 million, which are withdrawn from the future of the reforms of John and Mary and what should be used to build a housing offer. [[PSD applause.]] What has the National Building Rehabilitation Fund built so far in terms of housing? Zero, zero houses, that's said by the president himself. He built nothing, but yes, helps to compromise the future of the reforms of John and Mary. In practice, this State budget continues to have interesting information, raising several doubts. We know that there is a question to be clarified, whether or not it has helped to deal with the future employment of the former Minister of Finance John the Lion. We also know that expenditure should be carefully verified in a number of areas. What is happening with many institutions and with many people that the Socialist Party has gone away, for example, with the former director and former leader of the Vaccination Plan, which was fired by VV. Ex., but that goes on in a deficit institution, like the Red Cross Hospital, wasting Portuguese money? What's the point of this? You called this "social protection". But listening to Mr. Prime Minister's words is nothing but the protection of socialism. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, estimated members of the Government, Prime Minister : This is not social protection, it is all less social protection. This is also not a State budget that takes care of companies, when we see that support for internationalisation and export is decreasing in value. Mr Prime Minister has pointed out, for some days now, in this House, the objective of reaching 53% of GDP in exports, but we have found that in this State budget there is no exit step in terms of context costs, which are pointed out as a critical problem for the competitiveness of companies, because every day, they raise resources to businesses and workers, whether in justice, licensing or the tax system, with the State creating obstacles and withdrawing income, money, workers and businesses. [[PSD applause.]] You want to crystallize the government as it is, you want to crystallize the public administration as it is and you say you want to take care of the companies. Don't! This is to protect the system that you conceive of from the state. This is to have a state that in practice is weak for companies, which could be much stronger and much more competitive. at this moment we have an opportunity that is being wasted. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a context where we have a flow of European funds and flexibility in European rules so that we can actually produce these reforms, your action does not exist and this missed opportunity, which is being played by this State budget, will have a brutal cost. That cost will, in fact, be enormous. This cost and this loss of opportunity are the main deficit they are leaving for the future, but you are unable to talk about the future. So far we have heard Mr. Prime Minister quote Cavaco Silva! But what a fixation with the past, which already goes to Cavaco Silva and even praises you. [[Risos from PS member Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no commendation for doing what would be necessary in this State budget, which is the policy of the future. And you know why? Because you have no policy for the future. They deal with the country, because it has potential and could not stay behind, in the tail of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u306	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u307	But what is being done is a revisionism of the past and today you have only proved that you have no project for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u308	Mr President, the Bureau shall record an entry for the formulation of requests for clarification. To that end, Mr José Rui Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I confess that I was amazed to hear this speech by Mr Nuno Carvalho,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u311	...because I don't think he lives in the same country I live in, certainly! [[PSD protests.]] A little while ago I heard Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho — I don't know if it's because he's also Carvalho! — to speak in a country I do not know when, referring to Sernancelle, Moimenta da Beira and Cinfanes, councils of my district, which, curiously, is the same as where he was elected, suggest to the newly imprisoned Minister of Economics that he open up new public services. Interestingly, it was precisely in those councils that the PSD Government closed the courts and stations of the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ). [[PSD protests.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand that the honourable Member was already born in 2015, when the Prime Minister was present, then candidate, committed to reopening the courts if he was elected. And so he did: he reopened the courts and—more! — after privatising the TTCs, it was even possible to make a commitment to open stations even in the municipalities where they did not exist before. This was also done, still recently, even in Penedon. I do not know whether Mr Nuno Carvalho knows where he is, but a CTT station was reopened there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u312	He's from Setúbal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u313	Therefore, with this intervention, I could not understand what country we live in. Then I also said Mr Nuno Carvalho that there is a major failure in the area of housing. I was speechless!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u314	Oh, yeah? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u315	So, we're doing 50 years on April 25, we've got the biggest revolution in the area of housing, we're going to have 26 000 new houses, we've got the biggest investment in housing history, and the gentleman is going to the pulpit make a statement of these? Oh, my God! Something's not gonna be right. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, if I had said that we could not achieve the goal, because we are going to have difficulty building so many works at the same time, it would certainly be good for you. This difficulty, the government will assume-CL- it! But to get up to that pulpit and say that we are not fulfilling, when the greatest revolution of this country is underway in the area of housing, frankly, does not suit you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I also do not know where this idea was found that in relation to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security, there were no huge steps taken to extend its sustainability much more years than when we arrived at the government in 2015 when the situation in which the Fund was located was catastrophic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u316	The money's coming out!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u317	Between 2015 and 2019, with measures taken by the Socialist Party, always with PSD against, more than 20 years of sustainability in social security were guaranteed. [[PSD protests.]] It's hard for you to admit, but it's true. It was the Socialist Party and this Prime Minister who have won all these victories for our country. I do not understand how you cannot see these truths. You have access to the numbers! Only those who don't want do not see that today we have much stronger sustainability than we had in the four years in which VV. Ex.as were government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Much more would be said, but I say only to you, Mr President, that you need to study this State budget better, which is excellent. It is no less than the Budget with which the Portuguese decided to give our Prime Minister and the Socialist Party an absolute majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u318	To reply, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u319	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the clarification requested, but I will do something unprecedented in this Parliament, which is to respond by another Member. My name is Nuno Carvalho, not Hugo Carvalho. I was elected by the district of Setúbal, not by the district of Viseu, but found this deception very funny. [[PSD laughter and applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Deputies is fantastic! It starts by responding to the State budget with a mistake, but I will correct it now. First of all, I'm not from Viseu, I'm from Setúbal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u320	I know, I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u321	Second, Article 106. That of the State budget, there are actually EUR 50 million outs that will stop at a fund that builds zero houses. Repeat: zero houses! You didn't say how many you built, but I'm informing you that it was zero. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u322	That's the second information I give you. Mr President, it was good to have your policy in mind for something that is distressing to this country. Mr. Prime Minister spoke of the young people who start their lives, but I ask : do you think that a young person who begins his life in the large metropolitan area of Lisbon or Porto has the conditions to rent or buy a house? Have you ever looked good at the real estate market? Oh, my God! [[It's true!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u323	Mr President, I will propose a second challenge to you, and this will succeed. Try to find out, in this government, who has a rented house at the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. Do you want me to help you find out, or will you answer me about that? Who, in this government, has a rented house at the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa? Oh, my God! Mr President, we believe that everything the State can do to help reduce the cost of housing should be used. Your vision is different and that is why I have talked about something very important, which is the last lesson that you are taking home today to study. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u324	Social protection, for you, is socialist protection, and this is not the country we want. This country, therefore, is not for young people, it is not for babies, nor is it for old people. This country is for socialists! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u325	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosário Gambôa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u326	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first objective of a democratic cultural policy is access to the use of culture by all citizens. The State budget under consideration in this House, as far as culture is concerned, is based on the continued commitment to this objective, in the light of a new context. Thus, after two years of strong constraints to cultural activity, with drastic failures in demand, it is now urgent to promote a strategy of recovery of the sector, promoting a new cycle of more sustainable and inclusive growth. And because there is no culture without its actors, the first step in implementing this strategy is through the stability of its professionals. According to Eurostat, employment linked to the area of culture represents 3, 6 % of total employment in Portugal, a tenth of the European average. Data from the study commissioned by DGArtes (Direction-General of the Arts) at the Portuguese Observatory of Cultural Activities confirmed the following reality, that the pandemic crisis had brutally triggered: precariousness and informality are dominant in the sector. More than 7 in every 10 professionals in the independent culture work exclusively on their own and, among them, 4 in every 10 work the green receipt. The Staff Regulations of the Professionals of the Culture Area, in force this year, was the structural response to another future which the Government has drawn up, in dialogue with the sector, over 80 meetings. This is an unprecedented diploma in our history, a global legal regime applicable to all professionals, which provides for a set of measures to combat job insecurity and creates a system of social protection for these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u328	The Statute is in deep harmony with the objectives guiding the State Budget for 2022 and with the spirit of the Dignified Work Agenda, combating precariousness, promoting labour stability and social justice as basic conditions for social and economic development. It is time to carry out and follow. Careful monitoring of the new legal regime was provided for in the diploma of its establishment, through a committee itself, consisting mostly of representatives from the various sectors. This is the privileged instrument of its scrutiny and improvement and must produce results. The new cycle of growth that, in relation to culture, the Budget of the State projects has as its main focus support for cultural activity in the network, according to a cross-sectional view, enlarged and integrated, in which the culture extends and adds throughout other ministerial sectors. It is a vision based on the recognition of the role of culture in personal training, citizenship, the deepening of democracy, the development of economic activity and territorial cohesion. In fact, the Portuguese Theatres and Cinematories Network, the result of the partnership of the central State with independent authorities and entities, together with the support supported to the arts, now in a new model, opens a real potential of cultural decentralization, attracting and setting groups and people in the territories. At the same time, the PRR, which is dedicated to the modernization of the technological infrastructures of cultural equipment—I refer to theatres, museums, libraries, cinemas—and to the digitization of the contents of arts and heritage, such as cinema, music or archives, is the complementary link necessary for the realization of programming strategies in network and culture circulation, open to new audiences. When we talk about audiences, it acquires particular meaning to implement the National Strategy for the Promotion of Accessibility and Inclusion of Museums, Monuments and Palaces. Cultural democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is concrete in participation, it is built in the daily of projects and experiences. The launch, in 2022, of routes in the territories of Knowledge Fazer Portuguese is another integral dimension of a policy that aims at more inclusive and plural cultural practices, valuing cultural diversity and the action of the communities themselves. But it cannot be ignored that it is in education that resides, in a soberly demonstrated way, the support of a democratic culture where culture has a central place.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u329	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u330	The OE for 2022: continues to implement the measures of the National Plan of Arts, notably through public funding for Art-Education-Community, developed in partnership with cultural entities and authorities; reinforces the National Plan of Cinema, through initiatives to promote literature in cinema with the school public; consolidates LEME (Literacy and Education for the Online Media) and affirms its importance with the school community, in combating misinformation and dissemination of false content; continues and expands the National Plan of Reading, at a new stage, from 2017 to 2027, in a clear assumption of reading as a political priority, since it constitutes the basic competence for access to knowledge and cultural enrichment, essential to the exercise of active citizenship and the social and economic development of the country. Mrs. Members, throughout these years, from 2015 to the present, we have turned a route, started a new course, faced a pandemic and built structural policies, but, as someone has often said, in this Parliament, there is still a lot to walk. Let us make the dialogue and the desired democratic convergence the map of the path we wanted to go together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u331	Mr Luís Gomes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, signed up to request clarification from Mrs Rosário Gambôa. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u332	Mr President, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, the culture sector, which you have just mentioned, is indeed quite important, but over the years the investment that has been made has fallen short of the expectations of the sector itself and the promises that the Government and the Socialist Party have in particular been making. We recall that, in this respect, there is a clear feeling and claim on the left, of the Socialist Party in particular, that expenditure on this sector should reach 1 % of the value of the Budget. However, we know that the budget we are discussing is very short of that percentage. Moreover, the percentage of investment in the area of culture is about 0, 5 % of the budget value, considering that the value of RTP is still included in this heading. The questions I would like to ask Mrs Deputies are the following: do you understand that the value entered in the Budget corresponds to the true claim of the left and the Socialist Party, in particular? Do you understand that this value is fair, in view of the European Union's own guidelines on this sector? Do you understand that the conditions for strengthening the culture sector are created? The Socialist Party and, in particular, the Government undertake or fail to make a commitment to achieve, in terms of the PRR, the value of 2 % for the culture sector, which is the true recommendation on the part of the European Union? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u333	To answer you have the word Mr Rosário Gambôa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u334	Mr President, honourable Member, in fact, the debate is done this way and, in the House of Democracy, it is always welcome when we can share ideas. I would like to begin by saying, Mr. Member, that unfortunately the Social Democratic Party should be that, in this House, with a smaller bearing on me to raise this issue, because since 2015 budgets for culture have grown progressively. In PSD time, they didn't exist. More: the Ministry of Culture did not even exist, there was a State Secretary! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u335	May it come from the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u336	Referring specifically to the question of the budget for the culture and the measures presented there, I would like to say that everything is properly budgeted, including the beginning of the new status of cultural workers, through transfers from the Ministry. Mr President, I recommend that you read well, because in addition to the map for culture, there are other maps with transfers. In fact, it has already been focused — recently in the gallery, I have just stated — that the consolidated budget of culture implies the existence of other dimensions that come together in culture...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u338	... and that they are carried out through other policies in culture. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] I have just mentioned, as one of the central things, for example, the National Reading Plan, which is a commitment between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u339	The National Plan of Arts also has these commitments, with money coming from two or three ministries, as well as from Culture through the Camões Institute. There is nothing in the budget for culture that is not properly budgeted. There is another question that I would like to mention, Mr, which is the following: we are working and we will continue to work so that the budget of culture will grow every year and that we can fulfil our social commitments with the workers of culture. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u340	To comply with the workers of culture is to comply with the culture and with a concept of cultural democracy that we defend, which was not in its Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u341	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u342	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister : 'The word given is an honest word. You're right! » I've heard this for 28 years, coming from the mouth of Antonio Costa. He was António Costa, now Prime Minister, candidate for the City Hall of Loures when he appeared with the donkey and Ferrari and said the Metropolitan was going to arrive at Loures and Odivelas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u343	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u344	Twenty-eight years later — a month and a half ago, at most two months — Prime Minister António Costa was in Loures presenting the Metropolitan. But, metropolitan, don't even see him! In fact, there isn't even enough money to do it. There's absolutely nothing going on!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u345	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u346	The Minister of Finance, sitting next to him, laughs when he knows that responsibility is also hiss because of how he managed the Lisbon Metropolitan Area and how he encouraged the Metropolitan not to be for Loures. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The word given is an honest word! Ladies and gentlemen, it comes from the Government Programme that there is a need for greater motivation for public servants. This, with an increase of 0, 9 %, when the expected inflation rate is 4 %. They want to build a motivation when the evaluation system continues to be the SIADAP (Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration ), which, when much, can make career progression from 10 to 10 years. That's the motivation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u347	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u348	Much easier will be to make a career in Socialist Youth. They will rise much faster and more assertively. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But the concerns on the left in these debates have always been the same, particularly the great capital. on those sides, on those benches, we heard more about the Doce Pingo than about the needs and emergencies of the Portuguese. It's the case to say, but who brought it? Oh, my God! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] A few days ago, the President of the Assembly of the Republic interrupted a Member and said that there are no collective responsibilities, but I want to say that they exist, yes. It's your responsibility! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The collective responsibility is of the whole left, which has ruled over the last few years, making Portuguese lose purchasing power and also the process of progression in careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u349	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u350	When we think, for example, of what you are thinking about for Portugal, about the issue of regionalization and decentralization, as much has been said – and the truth is that the money needed for the municipal chambers to be able to do the work and the tasks that the government is currently de-responsing – we realize that Portugal is not only Lisbon. We could talk about several municipal chambers and localities, thousands of sites scattered throughout this country. We could go from Carrazeda de Ansiães to Santa Comba Don, and it's not worth anybody to fall from the chair now— don't be nervous, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, because this has no association, be calm! — but where we want to get to is the issue of mobility for the interior and what is described, for example, in Decree-Law No 15 / 2017, for doctors. What VV. Ex.s have maintained, since 2017, a 40 % increase over the career base value. Mr. Prime Minister, in conclusion, on this issue that you want to be more close to the country, I just want to ask you, yourself and the PS Parliamentary Group, if you know, for example, how much it costs a dozen eggs currently and when it was in 2017. Do you know what the increase was? It was 143 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u351	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u352	Do you know how much oil it cost at that time? You now come to Ukraine and all this justification... i.e. basically, you have not only withdrawn purchasing power as they affect the State budget more indirect taxes on products already completely inflated. Very, very ashamed! [[Congrats from the CH.]] In conclusion, I recall that in his first speech in this Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister told Mr. André Ventura that he would certainly be participating in a television casting. Today, looking at you, I have no doubt that you almost dare to replace Fernando Mendes IN the Right Price, because that is what happened here, i.e., only you know the envelope. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u353	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u354	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: When, in 2021, the situation in the country was already extremely serious, the Government presented a Budget in October which did not respond to the serious problems faced by the Portuguese. From then on, these problems were accentuated and new problems arose. The difficulties in the lives of workers, pensioners, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the productive sectors are greater and the prospects for the immediate future are worse. In view of this framework of greater urgency and urgency, the Government submits a proposal for a budget which is even more distant from the necessary responses to the country's problems. This budget does not meet the requirements of the actual increase in wages and pensions, the effective fight against rising cost of living and price control, the strengthening of public services, from the National Health Service onwards, and the defence of the right to housing, against eviction and the escalation of income. In all these and many other fundamental matters, the solutions for the country are further away from the Budget now presented. The government says: the PS had an absolute majority, it goes from there, the people want this Budget. The government decides to increase wages and pensions below inflation and to explain to us what it does, because that is what people want! Mr. Prime Minister can tell people that they will lose purchasing power because the absolute majority of the PS so decided, which is not to say that people have chosen to have less purchasing power.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u355	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u356	When inflation was low, wages were not increased because it was not necessary, but when prices fire, wages are not increased because of inflation! However, the dynamization of the internal market for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is dropped and public services are degraded with a chronic shortage of staff, with workers often leaving and opting for other jobs, or even for other countries, seeking better wages. The government's political option is to put above all, as 'absolutely essential issue' — in Mr Finance's words, the highest priority of the deficit. The government's objective in October was a deficit of 3, 2 %, but now with an increase in the cost of living and a rise in problems, the government puts the target of 1, 9 %. The government chooses to subject workers, the Portuguese people, to added difficulties and choose not to move forward with answers — yes, essential — to the country’s grueling problems. For what? In order to achieve the ultimate objective of reducing seven percentage points and remaining debt by 120 % of GDP. That's what the government says, it's going to protect us from new telluric shocks at interest rates. You cannot build hospitals or public day care facilities because of Euribor. The blackmail and speculative attacks of abutres, pardon, of markets, are no longer happening if Portuguese workers go hungry, if small businesses fall to ruin, if the tenants continue to be expelled from their homes, if the public services go into ruin. This is the government's profession of faith. But for some, the money can't be missing. There is no need for money to: increase road PPPs to EUR 1555 million in payments; increase tax bills and benefits and subsidize profits to large economic groups; tax exemptions to imports to finance NATO and war. This budget extends the VAT exemption scheme for materials used in NATO military missions to the European Union. They're options! It is 23 % VAT for the electricity that families pay and 0 % VAT for missiles. They're options, but they're not ours! by placing the primary balance as the alpha and omega of budgetary options, the Government made an option. Between the deficit and the country, the government chose the deficit. The old question with which Almeida Garrett was still questioning us, with the present, but gains a new expression and new variables: how many poor are needed to produce 0, 9 % deficit? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country must not be condemned for these supposed inevitability. There must be a response to the problems and needs facing the country, mobilising all the possibilities that exist today. It is necessary to substantially strengthen public investment and to implement it, to defend the productive apparatus by replacing imports with national production, creating jobs, reducing external dependence and exposure, by dynamizing the economic fabric, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is necessary to strengthen public services, the National Health Service, the public school, transport, culture, the promotion of public housing supply, the public network of day care and other equipment. Portugal is not a poor country. The country has the potential and resources to face the current situation and can continue to rely on the PCP to intervene and fight to ensure solutions that integrate the global response to national problems, an indispensable path to the country's life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u357	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Anne Bernardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u358	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that Mr Bruno Dias may not have time, at least today, to answer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u359	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u360	...but I'm going to leave a comment and I hope it can be a useful contribution to continue to reflect on these issues. Let me begin by referring to the different vision that we have of this Budget, which, for us, brings concrete proposals for the Real Country and for families, immediate proposals to respond to emerging problems, particularly with budgetary measures and allocations that will mitigate the impacts of the pandemic and respond to the emerging situation resulting from the war in Ukraine, but also with future measures, including of families. Some of the measures have already been pointed out, but I cannot but mention them: improvement of pensions and social benefits; measures to relieve the tax burden, either by extending the number of steps, or by a very concrete response to the need to address the reality of young people through IRS Youth; and also a very important and concrete number of measures to combat poverty and inequality. I cannot fail to mention the unequivocal commitment in public services, with a strong investment in central areas such as health and education, essential services not only at this stage of pandemic, but to ensure better protection of people, to ensure better living conditions for people and to ensure cohesion and equity. It is a budget that promotes investment in general and creates the conditions for us to have stronger, more sustained economic growth and promote job creation. And here, of course, it is to be noted that today we have a much more favourable framework in terms of employment and working conditions, as a result of choices made by this Government in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u361	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u362	There is a commitment to combating precariousness, combating false independent work, improving working conditions in general, and some measures, in particular, come from the framework of a tripartite social agreement which the Government has been able to enhance. But let me also point out that significant steps have been taken in the implementation of commitments made at the Social Summit in Porto, in particular by seeking to implement the European Pillar of Social Rights, in the background, with the presentation of an important process on the Dignified Work Agenda and Youth Valuation in the Labour Market.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u363	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u364	It is an agenda that integrates important measures, which we continue to consider essential to move forward. The CFP may not find these measures sufficient, it may not like the headquarters in which they were proposed and discussed, but it should not undermine the progress already made and the agenda that the Government has in the field of work, in fact, an agenda and concerns that are clear to the Government Programme which has been discussed in this Chamber. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u365	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u366	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Paula Bernardo, I thank you for the questions you have raised. The honourable Member was thinking that I did not have time to answer, and by the way, for no reason, she did not give me any, but we still have time to address the issues she raised. When the honourable Member very much appreciates the immediate proposals of this Budget for families, I think there is a question that we can not fail to ask, which is: which families? Repeat : which families? It's just, for example, if it's the Amorim family or the Mello family, [[Mr Pedro Santos Frazão's laughs.]] ... or the Soares dos Santos family, there is no doubt that there is a set of basic options in the economic policy underlying this State budget that these families will naturally welcome and applaud. The problem here is the families of the workers of the companies whose families I mentioned are the women. We speak of the vast majority of the Portuguese people, we speak of the workers on behalf of others, we speak of the workers of the Public Administration, we speak of the pensioners, pensioners and elderly who, confronted with these options of the government, are penalized with the loss of purchasing power. It's not just that we're just getting to what would be necessary to do justice, to recover power of lost purchase in the past, no, people are losing purchasing power now, they're facing difficulties now. Many micro and small businesses have already closed their doors during the time of the pandemic crisis, because they felt no concrete response by the government, since the responses to the pandemic covered most large companies, but only a small percentage of small businesses. [[Protests from PS MP João Torres.]] I shall repeat, most large companies have been entitled to support the simplified layoff, almost 60 % of large companies. Do you know how many micro and small companies had access to this support? Three percent! [[Exactly!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u367	We are talking about a multiple situation of companies watching the announcement of support to which they had no access, because bureaucracy was closing the door to concrete support. And it is this country, it is this economy that comes out with deep difficulties from the pandemic crisis that we are facing, which now faces these new and worst economic difficulties that the government ignores by saying "we are with growth prospects, this is in the right way" and goes on to : 1, 9 % deficit! Therefore, it is precisely when the problems are worsening that a more substantial response would be needed, from the point of view of defending the rights, interests and living conditions of workers, populations, reformers, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, productive sectors, exactly in the opposite direction of what the government is doing. When the honourable Member mentions the strong bet on public services, it is important for the Members of the PS's absolute majority to know that the managers of the public companies under the protection of the government are having great difficulty in keeping employees who are recruited, but who are leaving soon. Why? Because wages aren't coming. It is no longer just the central issue of the right of workers to a decent life, a fair reward, a prospect of the future in their careers, working conditions, is, more than that, the ability of public services not to break into failure, as they are now entering. So the problem here is to move from theory to practice, because the words are very beautiful, but then, as the other said, in practice, the theory is different. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u368	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Czech Republic, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u369	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers and Mrs. Members: In recent years, the Ministry of Health — and we have to talk about health, we cannot spend today without talking about Portuguese health — has left us with less 4, 5 million consultations, surgeries, emergencies and hospitalizations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u370	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u371	It's true. The Ministry of Health seems to have been, in all, dedicated to COVID-19, leaving all these Portuguese behind, all these medical acts behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u372	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u373	The State budget of 2021 had budgeted €12,564,000 and now, for 2022, we have €13,578,000, only 5 %, 6 % compared to the provisional implementation last year. Mr Prime Minister, this budget is indeed not a last-minute exercise, as I said earlier in the rostrum, this State budget is an exercise in the recycling of consumables and an improper recycling. For lack of human resources, responds with requests for full dedication to the public sector, asks professionals for more hours of work, almost without additional pay. But what health professionals do you want to pick up for the SNS? to the nurses, for the valorization of their careers, promise only a resuscitation of the points already gained in evaluations of previous years and which were in a deep coma, were cryopreserved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u374	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u375	But weren't these points more than due? Oh, my God! What is the effective appreciation of the nurses in the National Health Service? Moreover, the technical assistants promise again a technical career that was in gestation without due date of birth. Is it this time that the child will be born and will fulfill the word?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u376	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u377	For health, the Government promises the most professional Portuguese, but they put a labour standard in the State budget in Article 39. the, which says, and I quote, "Contracts made cannot imply the increase in the number of workers...". That is, they promise more health professionals, but they tell hospitals that they cannot increase the number of workers. How can more professionals be promised to ban the increase of workers? It also promises technological innovation, but what is expected is the increase of 15 % in telemonitoring and telehealth, i.e. an innovation that brings medicine away, i.e. a telemedicine to send waiting lists. And we already know that Dr. Marta Temido, Minister of Health, has a great experience in sending waiting lists! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It also promises more extended care, but, by promising them, it throws the skills to the municipalities without the proper financial envelope, which most municipalities are not accepting. It promises more health units without taking into account the enormous inflation in the construction sector and the huge increase in the cost of construction materials. Promise everyone everything, everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u378	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u379	Mr Prime Minister, in conclusion, this State budget, which was intended to save the SNS, will continue to leave behind those who cannot use the social sector and the private sector by their own means.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u380	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u381	What this Budget will do is keep the most vulnerable waiting. This is, yes, a new form of austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u382	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u383	It's a new way of having the right accounts. And, Mr. Prime Minister, do you no longer remember when he said, "Austerity kills"? Mr. Prime Minister doesn't remember, but we remember. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u384	For an intervention, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the party, Mr Pedro Pessanha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u385	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have heard His Excellency the President of the Republic speaking in this House about the importance of our Armed Forces as a guarantor of our security, and in this sense that there has to be an investment commitment. We have also heard Mr. Prime Minister say that he shares this concern, but the fact is that we do not see this government announce anything new or structural. We need to move from words to actions. We see reference countries in the European framework strengthen their defence budgets and we see other countries, previously neutral, abandon this status and equalise an application for accession to the Atlantic Alliance. And what does the Portuguese majority government have to present to this Parliament and to the Portuguese? The State budget it has to present to us is only a copy of the October budget. Over the past two months, as I said, we have seen other friendly nations take concrete action and adjust budgets. But the Government of Portugal does not want to move in the Budget, because it was already done. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Dear members of the government, the world has changed, there needs to be a radical change in the politics of the Armed Forces. In the Government Programme, a copy of the programmes that preceded it have also referred to the intention of valuing people. On this subject, she says the Minister of National Defence that it is not only necessary to attract how to retain the good frames of our Armed Forces. For what we see is that we are training young people to then go to the private sector two or three times more. This situation is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u386	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u387	One of the greatest scourges of the Armed Forces is the successive abandonment of the permanent military—and this in all classes. What about promotions, even automatic promotions, which, since the time of the troika, only happen at the end of the year? They are even nice to apply retroactivity in antiquity, but do not apply retroactivity in lost wages. On the salary table that came into force in 2009, couldn't this table have already been revised to improve the attraction and retention of the most qualified in our ranks?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u388	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u389	Much more could be said about the valorization of people and the retention of our talents, but, on this occasion of the discussion of the State budget, those I mentioned could already be poured out in this Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u390	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u391	Mrs. Members of the Government, as former military officer, I assure them that without a well-trained and well-motivated troops of nothing the equipment, which in this case also presents weaknesses, which will be discussed in the field of expertise. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, with humility, if you really have a commitment to do something by the Armed Forces, show us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u392	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u393	They can begin by showing the compromise in this budget or by adopting it in the final vote. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u394	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u395	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I did not want to start here, but there is a reply from Mr José Rui Cruz to a PSD intervention that I cannot make clear. The honourable Member comes to this House to fill the chest, in another act of political propaganda,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u396	One more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u397	... to say that in the last 50 years, this is the Budget that most supports social housing in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u398	It's 48, it's not 50!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u399	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u400	So let me tell you, Mr, that this statement that you are bringing here is shameful. And I will tell you why: only 1 % of social protection expenditure is for social housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u401	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u402	And I also add: we are once again in the tail of Europe, we are the third worst country in Europe in this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u403	Arrival has a special INE (National Institute of Statistics )!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u404	It is good to have you in these discussions. Ladies and gentlemen, begin to speak the truths that the Portuguese want to hear and not your election campaigns.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u405	Well, that's it, the campaign is over! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u406	Still in this area of housing, the government plans... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mr. Deputy is very nervous, but be calm. Sometimes they also have to be attacked. The Government provides for an investment of EUR 1200 million in the Housing Access Support Programme for 26 thousand families up to 2026. Let me tell you, Mr Prime Minister, that, given the economic and social impact this pandemic has caused on Portuguese families, but on Portuguese families, mainly on those who worked and who, because of this pandemic, have lost their jobs, we are very concerned about this issue of social housing and we are concerned that these dwellings are well distributed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u407	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u408	Ricardo Salgado could go to those houses!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u409	May they be distributed by whom you have worked, by whom you have lost your jobs, and not by the custom, which have Porsche, Ferrari and Mercedes at the doors of these social homes. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u410	But are you making an intervention or a question?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u411	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, on this issue of housing which, once again, this Budget disregards, I ask you what the Government's measures are to mitigate the impact that the average convergence of new housing credit contracts for up to 30 years and the expected rise of Euribor and inflation will have on the family budget. I also wonder when this government will finally have the courage to end the most ridiculous tax in Portugal, which is the IMI. When are you going to end these taxes, taxes and taxes that only hurt? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Finally, Mr President, leaving this question to the Government: did you know that, on average, when a Portuguese buys home, 40 % are taxed? Repeat: 40% are taxed! in a house of 100 thousand euros, 40 thousand euros go directly to the state safes! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u412	The Bureau no longer requests for interventions. As agreed, there is a system of communicating vessels between today's grid and tomorrow's grid, according to various criteria that are all met. Therefore, negative times will be discounted on tomorrow's grid and positive times will be added according to parliamentary groups. Tomorrow we will have the continuation and closure of the debate on the Proposal for a State Budget Act. We shall have several votes. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are several elections for external bodies tomorrow, such as the Council of State, the Higher Council of National Defence, and others, so I ask everyone to participate. Elections shall take place from 10 a.m. to 16 p.m. in the Senate Chamber. There is also information that the Secretary of the Bureau has to disclose, so I shall immediately give her the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u413	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 60 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 61 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 62 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 63 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 64 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which fall to 10. the Commission. Mr President, if I may, I inform the House that you are. Deputies Miguel Cabrita ( PS ), Inês Barroso ( PSD ) and Eurídice Pereira ( PS ) accompanied our work by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-28.u414	Thank you, Mrs. Member. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 26 minutes.]]
