ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] Today's agenda has two major moments: firstly, the discussion and vote on the rules avocados; secondly, the closing session of the debate. I remember two other important points. The first is that from now on and until 12 noon, the voting period will take place in elections for bodies outside the Assembly of the Republic. I therefore ask all the ladies and gentlemen. Members exercising their right to vote. The election will take place at the Senate Hall until 12 noon so that the results can be ascertained and communicated during this session. The second is that today we will have two times of voting and, therefore, two times of quorum verification, one time when we will proceed to the vote on the rules avocados and the other when we shall proceed to the overall final vote on the proposal for a State Budget and the subsequent legislative votes. I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. If there is no record to read, we will start the debate on the rules of law. On behalf of the Socialist Party, to discuss Article 242. that of the bill and the rule that was avoked for this discussion, has the floor Mr. João Paulo Rebelo. I call on all the essential silence to be heard by the speaker. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u2	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party wants to welcome this State budget, which we are going to vote for, of course, many measures, but in particular for a measure that I would like to highlight. I'm talking about the tax incentive for recovery. In fact, in recent years, the government has supported companies and families, even in difficult times, either the terrible pandemic or the war context in which they live. It is essential to create conditions and provide security for companies to invest in, and may have a reduction in collection if they do so in innovation and investment and, very, very important, maintaining jobs. This is another measure that effectively guarantees what companies need: aid to continue to invest. And, of course, Portuguese need to work in more competitive and innovative companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] therefore the satisfaction of this bench by the measures that this State budget brings to the country this year of 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u3	For an intervention on Article 256. o -A— Provision of the IRS in favour of Youth Associations, Mr Tiago Soares Monteiro of the PS is followed by the use of the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a Youth-centred Budget and a friend of the young people. from children to students, from young entrepreneurs to young families, in the particular dimension of associationism, it was always with the PS that youth associations advanced and that is what we intend to do again in the first budget of this legislation. It was in Portugal that we promoted the world meeting of ministers with the responsibility of the youth folder. We have reviewed the law of associivism and are already concluding the new National Plan for Youth, to meet the needs of young people, but above all, to realize their rights. It is in associationivism that younger people begin to gain skills and responsibilities and begin to respond to challenges and initiatives. It is in associationivism that we promote the identity of the territory. We therefore consider it extremely important to implement this measure, which the law already provides, so that the youth and student associations can have more means and capacity for initiative, for the benefit of the future. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not thinking about today, we are ruling for tomorrow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u5	To discuss Article 259. o — Complement Guarantee for Children, the standard avowed by the PS, has the floor to Mrs Cristina Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Government, it is a priority to combat poverty and promote equal opportunities, ensuring dignified living conditions for all children and young people. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State Budget adds a set of new measures directed towards families, with the aim of strengthening support for the income of family aggregates with children and young people up to 18 years old. This is a Budget which contains the allocation of a supplementary benefit to the family allowance up to 1200 €, to remove from extreme poverty about 123 000 children and young people. This is a Budget that includes strengthening the family allowance of the 1. o is 2. the steps up to 600 € per year and covering about 400 000 children.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u8	But this is also a Budget that supports children and young people with family allowance above 2. the step, which, with the Child Guarantee complement, is guaranteed the support of 600 € annually. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are real measures to support children, young people and families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u9	To discuss Article 248. o — Special contribution for the conservation of forest resources, a rule by the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor Mr João Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the PSD does not believe in the forest of the Red Capuchin nor in the kindness of the owner/producer to replace the state and produce forest or environmental services of ecosystems without the necessary material and financial balances. The production forest is necessary to the country—I would say it is fundamental! — it is also a forest of landscape and conservation, as it fulfils the environmental objectives required and necessary. It will have to be well implemented and ordered to become resilient to fires and profit, in order to be able to exist. I repeat, without fear of words: resilient and lucrative, so that conservation does not overlap with production, and vice versa, because otherwise it will be their total abandonment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u12	The transition from the forests of the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action does not hope for anything good in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the destruction that the forests have been targeted, particularly in 2017, a certain and constructive attitude was expected from the Government for their rapid reorganization and for immediate and effective reforestation. In fact, the government's forestry reform — still in theory — and to which it wants to dedicate many million euros of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) has had the benefit of the PSD's doubt, although the delays in its implementation are unacceptable. The territories burned in 2017 can be seen and it can be seen that little or nothing has been done for their rehabilitation as territories of forest vocation, of forest production.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u13	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u14	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u15	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, herbaceous vegetation and invasive species — finally, uncontrolled and disordered natural regeneration — are making those territories into authentic powder barrels that, with minimal ignition, can turn again into the inferno of Pedrogon, with the material and human consequences unfortunately known. Let us hope that this time the blame will not be attributed again to the autarchs or firefighters because of the State's inaction in these territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u17	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, taxing or taxing, directly or indirectly, a sector in great difficulties, even without the investment necessary for its recovery, is to contribute to giving it the final slaughter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u18	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u19	This is what the Government is doing, with the complicity of the PS majority, by introducing this tax into the State budget in Article 248. o — Special contribution to the conservation of forest resources, as you can see. The forest line is tributated for the conservation of forest resources itself, which is, at least, absurd. The aim is to penalise all owners and the entire industrial sector of wood products, which has contributed greatly to the economic growth of the country and to employment, with about 100 000 jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u21	Sectors such as paper, cork, pallets and other derivatives and furniture, which place Portugal in the front platoon of technological innovation—and why not scientific! — and exports, will be highly penalised in natural competition in international trade. It is for these and others who are watching the relocation of important investments, particularly for Galicia, as I said yesterday, that they could and should be made in Portugal. And the owners and the forest producers, which are more than 400 000? Oh, my God! As I said yesterday, it is the bells of the party, the mussels, as the people say, because at the end of the chain they are paying, since these costs with the new tax will reflect on the final price of the raw material, reducing it. In the background, it is to take the owner/forest producer into the form of subsidy or compensation for any ecosystem services. [[Protests by PCP Deputies Bruno Dias and João Dias.]] It's paying them with their own money. This means, my lords, more abandonment, more depopulation, more desertification of the interior and, consequently, more rural fires. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, I renew our call for common sense, for the interests of the sector and for the national interest, voting for the withdrawal of this Article 248. the, as the Social Democratic Party proposes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u22	To speak on these issues that we have been dealing with, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the issue of family allowance and the protection of children has been addressed. Family allowance is a right of all children, assuming itself as a sign of the duty of protection of the State to children and young people in promoting their most elementary rights. Therefore, in this State budget, we have tabled proposals for the universalization of family allowance and also for the strengthening of their amounts, in the sense of this right of all children to be effectively met, creating conditions for greater coverage of this social protection. We have also proposed that emergency responses for children, particularly in the provision of supplementary family allowance, should be further than what is included in the State budget, in view of the brutal increase in the cost of living and the difficulties experienced by families. The fight against child poverty, which was much talked about during the discussion of the State budget, is also inseparable from the significant appreciation of the wages of working parents and mothers as well as the promotion of children's rights. at a time when it is crucial to strengthen social protection and to promote social rights, the path is not through proposals that can promote discrimination, hatred, racism or xenophobia. from the PCP, we brought the discussion and voting proposals that strengthened the social protection rights of children and young people, pensioners, workers, families, people with disabilities, groups with special social vulnerability. This was also the contribution we have made to the State budget, contributing to the vision and construction of a more just society and social progress. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u24	In order to intervene on the rule avoked by the Parliamentary Group of the Party, concerning a possible Article 262. o -A, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u25	Mr. President, in your person I welcome all those present. Today, when we get out of here, we can all start by — like what was done at the beginning of the pandemic, but now in relation to the older ones, our grandparents, our parents — make a home call to apologize. You have to apologize! On the way from here, I remembered that when I was young, when we all cried out for mother and grandfather to help us tighten our shoes—for everything and something else—a time when this Parliament had men like Álvaro Cunhal, Mário Soares, Sá Carneiro, Adelino Amaro da Costa, Ribeiro Telles and when politics were discussed for the sake of the country, regardless of the ideological difference that could exist. Excuse me! They apologize, because ideology has taken account of Parliament and VV. They do what they want without negotiating with anyone, without respecting diversity. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We all believed one day, when we were younger and looked at these benches, that we would come here to change the world and do something that could change the world. Arrived to this Budget, VV. They come, with hypocrisy, to say from the rostrum that they increased 10 € to pensioners, but forget that yesterday they again dropped the end of the subsidy in accumulation with the pensions for the usual ones. It's a shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We continue with this shame. Since they should leave here and apologize to the older ones, when they come to aunt's or grandmother's house and they serve you the Portuguese cooking or cod with grain, leave a note, because those 10 € do not come to them to pay you the food and the dish they put you on the table. I asked today to talk to you from this place because it was here that the Arrival entered the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u27	Today we are 12 and I am absolutely sure that these measures will make the Portuguese open their eyes. We will be the majority soon, and at that time we will resume the honor and dignity of our flag, our homeland, Portuguese and older, which you should respect. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u28	I ask the PS Parliamentary Group whether the inscription they have now made to intervene is on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u29	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u30	So Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, very telegraphically, it was relevant that, when making proposals, they should take into account the constitutional order and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which, twice on this matter, produced jurisprudence. First — this in 2016 —, saying that the proposal presented by the Arrival would be unconstitutional for breach of the protection of trust. And then in 2018, in relation to the rule that is in force, he came to say « no, this is compatible ». In other words, the norm that allows the size of pensions to be restricted according to the condition of resources is perfectly compatible with the Constitution. To approve the proposal of the Arrival would be to restore unconstitutionality, to keep the law as it is in force would be to keep it without unconstitutionality. By the way, who regulated the vital grants was the Socialist Party's bench in 2005. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u32	In order to speak on the same subject, Mr Bruno Nunes of the Hague has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u33	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, you invoke constitutionality when you do, and come with these measures. [[Rices and protests from PS Members.]] We could even come to discuss the question of metadata and you could bring the opinions. In fact, we also have opinions concerning certain rules, such as in the case of the draft law on the marriage of minors, in which the Supreme Council itself came to say that children are emancipated with marriage. That is why there is a lot to discuss, but there is one thing that we are sure of: as I have said recently about certain parliamentarians who have passed through this House, we do not hide, from the beginning of the previous legislature, that we want a review of the Constitution. You don't want to, either, not to end these subsidies. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u34	To intervene on Article 262. o -A, a rule avoked by the Liberal Initiative, has the floor Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Liberal Initiative today advocates its proposal for the effective implementation of the More Transparency portal. You may ask: Why advocate a rule that was voted in favour of yesterday? Why avoking a matter on which we had already been able to pass a rule in the Budget last year? Why should we advocate a matter in which we have also been able to set up a submission to the Economic Commission to follow the PRR throughout this Parliament? Why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because this instrument is the maximum example of what we have been saying, that this absolute majority needs absolute scrutiny. This is the subject that needs absolute scrutiny. It is sad, but it is true, that if it were not the PRR, there would not be a remnant of reformist spirit in this Budget, a reformist spirit which is presumably imposed by Brussels, because the PS would certainly not be there. It is sad, but it is true that if it were not the PRR there would be no prospect of medium-term growth in Portugal. They account for the growth of PRR investments and nothing left. More: it is sad and true that, contrary to what many find, sooner or later, these funds will have to be paid by the Portuguese. Sooner or later, they'll have to be paid for our taxes. But even sadder, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this process has already gone wrong and shows the PS at its worst. The PS believes that the state is the centre of everything, not only because it allocates a small percentage of the PRR to private and business, but also because, when it is called to attention to this fact, it says cynically that many of the funds that are allocated to public bodies and to the State end up, by contract and subcontracting, in private. So -- look! — for the PS it is equally a company or a private decide how you want to make investments and a private person to wait for the state contract to do something with RPP funds. This says a lot about the vision of the PS about what the state and the central role it has in our economy. The PS also believes that it can centralize all these matters in the Prime Minister and that it does not have to account for them to Parliament — it does not come to the Committees. On the basis of an opinion already dated, the Prime Minister may call for responsibility in the case of European funds—and the PRR in particular—but he does not have to answer for them in Parliament. It can't be! It is sad and we have already brought in a draft revision of the Rules of Procedure which seeks to change these things. It is also sad and true that the PS believes that it can ignore the repeated warnings from October, either from the Court of Auditors or the Public Prosecutor's Office, or from other entities accompanying the PRR, about the repeated delays and difficulties in verifying the effective suitability of the decisions that have been made. And the PS believes that, in the midst of this confusion, it will be possible to apply two to three times more annual funds than so far without this causing a huge failure. The PS finds this all and the Liberal Initiative feels bad. What the Liberal Initiative believes is that the PRR is the maximum example of what has to correspond to an absolute scrutiny of this absolute majority that you think everything can. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proof of the strengthening of the Transparency portal corresponds to the practical application of the principle that an absolute majority must be an absolute ballot. on the side of the Liberal Initiative, the PRR is the maximum example of what will happen in this legislation in this field.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u36	In order to speak on the same subject, I give the floor to Mr Rui Paulo Sousa of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u37	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, transparency cannot be just an intention or a word that is used precisely for lack of it. in this sense, the arrival requires more transparency, publicity of government acts and public accounts, more information for citizens, more confidence in institutions. To that end, we want in particular that the results of the audits to the Government be made available through the Transparency portal, such as final reports by the Court of Auditors on budgetary control so that all citizens or anyone else can have access to them. It is not only this Assembly of the Republic which is responsible for monitoring the action of the Government, that any elector should have the opportunity to do so. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u38	To speak on the same subject, Mrs. Joana Lima has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, welcome to the debate on transparency! [[All right!]] [[IL Member's laughs João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u40	Mr. Deputies, we in the PS are here and we have an inclusive budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u41	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u42	Including: when the Portuguese participated in it, when we accepted the proposals from the other benches and because we are here to present the best budget that the Portuguese need. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u43	Except for me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u44	Mr President, the PS does not receive transparency lessons.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u45	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u46	He well knows that even in the last legislature, we introduced the National Committee for the Monitoring of the PRR. You know it was the PS, sir. The PS also has other mechanisms of action, both at the government level and at the level of other institutions, so that we all measure transparency. That's how we're in politics, that's how we're serving Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore approve your proposal because it is against the action of the government and this bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u47	To speak on the same subject, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, transparency is always important in a democracy. It is even more important when billions of EU funds will be distributed. From that point of view, we are voting in favour of any step which strengthens transparency and requires that it be implemented properly. But there are things that are not well implemented and the example of the More Transparency portal, in the way it currently exists, so it demonstrates. For example, when you catch up with the General Data Protection Regulation and say that, because of its existence, the names of the persons who are responsible for contracts or for contracting State projects in the More Transparency portal are removed, this is unacceptable and incomprehensible. The General Data Protection Regulation has served to protect people and their private data, not to hide information that is necessary to political parties, this Assembly of the Republic and also to citizens and citizens to monitor the use of Community funds and public funds. Is it possible, therefore, to do more to the questions? Can this government do more for transparency? », the answers are unequivocal: it is possible to do more and this government can do more. First of all, and above all, by not inventing legal or bureaucratic excuses to fail to comply with the transparency that is required by all in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u49	It follows in the use of the word, to present the legal standard relating to an article 262. o-B — Suspension of public support for associations linked to entities sanctioned under the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u50	Mr President, I would like to point out very quickly that, in the previous intervention, the PS said it had more means of supervision. Not the Parliament, but the PS, which had more means of monitoring. Today we give the PS an opportunity to correct what yesterday could only have been a lapse in the vote on the proposal to suspend public support to entities sanctioned during the war in Ukraine. Only PCP and PS voted against. I would say that the vote was already expected, but the PS is obviously surprised, especially given that, even last week, Mr Prime Minister was in Ukraine with interest in support — and well! — as well as condemnation of the Russian regime. That is why, as the PS is certainly not an incoherent party, we give it today the opportunity to correct yesterday's vote, which can only have been a lapse. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u51	She is registered to speak to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u52	Mr President, before I refer to the two issues that we have in this favour, both transparency and funding for associations that may have links to Russia in Putin, I can only remind you that today 40 years have been signed on the decriminalization of homosexuality in our country. Despite the way we are still going, we must not forget to be proud of being an inclusive country that promotes equality and that effectively respects the human rights of all people, regardless of their sexual orientation. [[L.]] With regard to the subject under discussion, particularly the More Transparency portal, this has undoubtedly been an important step in the State budget for 2020. We have achieved precisely this by means of dialogue with the NAP, but we must go further in this scrutiny. We will therefore follow the proposal of the Liberal Initiative because we understand that there must indeed be transparency and improvement in the functioning of the portal. The NAP has put forward two proposals in recent days, adopted by a large majority of this House, which aim precisely to achieve substantial improvements in access to information by citizens, in particular in the implementation of the budget. As already mentioned, we will have access to millions of euros not only from the PRR but also from Portugal 2020, which will be fundamental for us to develop the country, but it is absolutely essential that our citizens can know how these same funds are being used, for more in an absolute majority context, which cannot have an absolute shield and opacity in the use of these money. More: when combined with the use of money with the flexibility that occurred from the point of view of public procurement, we see the emergence of measures that improve the Transparency portal. But there will also be a section — and this is fundamental to the improvements that we have made in recent days — on tax benefits, so that we can understand, in a broad sense, these same benefits, and so that each citizen can know simply how our tax expenditure is being used. If we talk so often in fiscal budget, it is also important that we know where this money goes and, indeed, what contributes to this same burden of public expenditure. It is important to know whether it is going, for example, for companies based in tax havens or for companies promoting good practices in the area of transparency or social, environmental and so on. More transparency will always be synonymous with greater and better rigour in public accounts and in the implementation of Community funds of own tax expenditure. The Liberal Initiative brings forward a proposal that adds further improvements to this portal, particularly in the section on European funds. This proposal is, to some extent, similar to what the NAP also brought and which, incomprehensiblely, the Socialist Party rejected, but we are going to follow it, leaving the challenge to create a focus group, as the NAP had already proposed, which is composed of representatives of non-governmental organizations and activists who may be related to transparency and the fight against corruption, and the Government can simplify the citizen participation tools in these matters. As regards the suspension of support to entities linked to the Putin regime, I cannot fail to say that this measure enjoys the full support of the NAP. It is essential to say that this budget, on a proposal from the NAP, establishes a mechanism that will enable this measure to be implemented through transparency of funding to private associations and entities. Portugal has an obligation to ensure that none of our cents will finance Russia's invasion of Ukraine, war, because we cannot go wasting taxpayers' money in this kind of matter. We have the moral duty to do. We will therefore follow these proposals from the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u53	Before giving the floor to the next inscribed speaker, I would remind the parliamentary groups that we are approaching the end of the debate and, therefore, the first moment of quorum verification. I would ask the services to open up their system, so that the Members may. Members who understand this may be able to register. Mr Rui Tavares of the Free Party has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, dear and dear colleagues, all welcome. We have discussed several legal standards which, as a whole, allow us to see how this Parliament can, in various respects, through various political groups, work in favour of constant improvements in the relationship with citizens, but at the same time also allow us to see the shortcomings of our public and political debate in what we really need for the rest of the decade, that is, a new national project to change the paradigm of the Portuguese economy. The Free will, at least in part, accompany the Socialist Party's project on deduction from the collection of companies that use their profits, within IRS (tax on income of natural persons) for reinvestment and we believe that it is necessary to monitor it well, so that there are no deviations from these investments for expenses that are not properly invested. We are pleased that companies that make collective redundancies or distribute profits over the next three years cannot have access to these benefits, but the question remains: when will the same be done for independent workers, who have enormous costs with their own training, with the development of their professional activity and who do not have this type of support? We also follow the PSD measures in relation to the correct remuneration of services to ecosystems. But we ask: from when will we begin to have a whole vision that not only values people and knowledge, but also our territory, so that we can pass from a paradigm of agriculture based on quantity to that of another based on quality and precision? We follow the CFP's proposals for family allowance, but we also believe that in Portugal a consequent left should not be content only with humanizing what we have today in a neoliberal project, but must counter an alternative, which must be of high added value. Let us hope that together we are also fighting for a high value added knowledge economy of decarbonisation, which allows small and medium-sized enterprises, with an injection of knowledge and technology, to work together so that Portugal can be a state-of-the-art economy within the framework of the European Union and not outside that framework. Finally, because we are talking about the European Union, it is of course necessary to have transparency in the implementation of the funds, but dear colleagues of the Liberal Initiative need much more than that. Transparency alone is not enough. When we had the crisis of 2007 - 2008, with the almost collapse caused by the deregulation of the financial sector, the truth is that many of the instruments that led us to this collapse of 2008 were, in practice, transparent. We could ask for the prospects of those complex financial products that led us to this collapse in 2008, but they were not tools that citizens could control, of which they could appropriate, because transparency alone is not enough. When transparency is not accompanied by simplicity or regulatory action by the State, what happens? The end result is that only those who have at their disposal large legal offices or the cumulative strength of companies and financial and economic power can take advantage of this transparency. For this reason, in previous European funding packages, we have seen that Portugal has made an important path in modernising its economy, but it has not decidedly changed the relationship of power between work and capital, between those who have less and those who have more. I couldn't change it because many of these instruments, however transparent they could be, were not at the service of ordinary people. [[Pause.]] Mr President, I do not know if it is possible, however, to ask that all speakers have the same conditions, at least with regard to some audibility of what they are saying. I feel that it might be advantageous for the Bureau to allow me the same conditions as other speakers had, because otherwise it would be very difficult to continue in my speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u55	The honourable Member in the use of the floor calls for the necessary silence conditions to be heard. It is a pity that this request has to be made because everyone should meet these conditions without the need of the Bureau to intervene or of the Member to make such a request. Mr President, please finish your speech by assigning the President up to one more minute to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u56	Mr President, I thank you, but I won't need any more time. I just need that the time available for the Free will, however little it may be, can be used in conditions. Finally, everything is summarized as follows: we are not only here to alleviate inequalities. This is also the project of a libertarian, ecological and European left in Portugal, but, above all, we are here to ensure that, through a paradigm jump of the Portuguese economy, all ordinary people, the middle and low classes, the youth of this country, more than living with attenuated inequalities or with the humanization of a neoliberal project, can have access to a greater life. That is our commitment and must be the objective of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u57	You have the floor to speak on these issues, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u58	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as the Socialist Party's bench says no, this is the most ideological budget in recent years. They may say no, they can say that it is your Government Programme, but, no, it is ideology and proof of this is that 309 proposals from the Arrival were rejected by this bench. That only proves one thing: ideology! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is a Budget that little or nothing says about fishing, little or nothing says about the rural world and agriculture, little or nothing says about the security forces—just as necessary, as it has recently proved the crime that has existed, with almost daily punchings in various parts of the country—, little or nothing says about the firefighters, little or nothing says about the Real Country. It's your Budget. There's no doubt about it. It's the budget of the owners of all of this! You want to be the owners of all this, but you will always count on the firm opposition of the arrival bench. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u59	To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, there is no doubt that the associative movement, whether it is youth, sport or cultural, goes through and has experienced great difficulties. But the norm that the PS brought the debate cannot be more demonstrative of indifference to the association movement, because the norm of the provision of 0, 5 % of the IRS, which the PS has advocated the plenary—may even have a positive impact, but it will indeed be very limited—is a curious proposal. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has proposed an amendment to the State Budget so that the Government of the Socialist Party will do something that the law of youth association of the Socialist Party has provided for years, but that the Government has never regulated. The question is this: why does the government need an article in the Budget to regulate something that should have been regulated at least since 2019? Maybe it's more to distract on what he doesn't and doesn't approve, besides. For example, the free constitution of youth associations, which stems from the same law, is simply reduced to a possible refund of €200 or €300. Question : What young people will have 200 € or 300 € to advance the constitution of a youth association? Besides, that's not going to meet the spirit of the law. Why have these proposals been approved? Oh, my God! But the government could have done even more, even in this State budget. If you wanted to know about youth association, you would have approved the proposal for financial support for the resumption and dynamisation of the youth associations that the CFP brought to the Budget and the discussion. The lack of sensitivity and concern of the PS with the associated movement and its various expressions, not only the youth association movement, is expressed in too many ways, such as when it votes against: the extension of the exemption from IRC (tax on the income of the public) for non-statutory activities; a programme to ensure the safeguarding of the archives of associations and collectives; support for the implementation of self-protection measures in sports facilities and associative buildings; in the case of sports associations, the refund of VAT(tax on value added) of material and sports equipment to non-profit associations; the freeness of training of trainers, which are thus impossible to exercise because they do not have title; the increase of money for the programme for the rehabilitation of sports facilities. All these measures have in common an opposite vote and an absolute indifference of the Socialist Party. It is for these and others that this budget does not serve either youth, associations, or the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u61	Serve, serve!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u62	One final note, just to say that support for the association movement cannot be made on the basis of discretionary criteria such as nationality, because this is xenophobia. Besides being illegal and unconstitutional, it opposes the spirit of our country's associative movement and contrary to the values of April, which we struggle to maintain in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u63	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, very telegraphically, on the proposal submitted by the Liberal Initiative for the addition of Article 262. o-B, concerning the suspension of public support, the reason why we did not follow the vote yesterday concerns the wording of paragraph 1, for reasons that have much to do with our constitutional order, that is, who recognises associations, how that procedure should be. What distinguishes us from States that are not states of law is that we preserve and cherish freedom of association. Therefore, of course, we have nothing against which to find out and which practices are illegal and which should not take place, but we must also not throw the baby out with the bath water, we must maintain and safeguard the preservation of freedom of association. Thus, if this amendment was possible, we would only ask that the wording of paragraph 1 should end precisely where the investigation is requested, i.e. that it should end where it is read 'the High Commissioner's electoral college for Migration', so that it is clear that it is in accordance with the national legal order that the amendment is being carried out and that it is in fact the rules that are in force internally. thus, we will have no difficulty in following up on these three numbers with this small amendment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u65	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, to whom I give the floor, is inscribed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u66	Mr President, just to say that we agree with this amendment in the sense of the abolition of this final part of point 1, following 'Migrations', and to thank the Socialist Party for opening up, which at this time proves that lawyers are essentially a very important instrument in the discussion of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u67	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a proposal was made orally by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group so that paragraph 1 of a proposal avoked by the Liberal Initiative would end with the phrase "High Commissioner for Migration" and the Liberal Initiative will therefore make that correction. This must be taken into account when we come to the vote on Article 262. the proposal for a State Budget Act. With no further requests for a word, we shall proceed to the voting period. The parliamentary groups are informed that there was a lapse in the script, which has already been corrected, so there is a new version of the script that everyone will have. Despite our quorum, I ask the services to present the results of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register electronically. [[Pause.]] You have not been able to register. Sérgio Sousa Pinto, PS, and Carlos Eduardo Reis, PSD. There are 218 Members present, which, with the 2 Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen I have just mentioned, I make a total of 220 Members. Ladies and gentlemen present. Let us, then, start the voting process. We begin with Article 242. o the proposed law — Tax incentive for recovery. We shall vote for Article 1. the ( Subject) of Annex III — Tax Incentive for Recovery, as contained in that Article of the Budget. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the PCP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We turn to the joint vote on Article 2 ( a) and ( b ). the ( Subjective scope) of Annex III, as set out in the same Article of the Budget. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the IL and the NAP, against the PCP and the BE and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on Article 2 ( c ). Annex III, as set out in Article 242. o [[When put to the vote, the votes against the PCP and BE and the PS and CH abstains were adopted, with the support of the PS, the IL, the PAN and the L.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1125 - C of the PS, in the part in which Article 2 ( d ) is amended. Annex III — Tax incentive scheme for recovery, as referred to in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL and the PAN, against the PCP and the BE and the L abstention.]] The vote on Article 2 ( d ) shall be adversely affected. Annex III, as contained in the proposal for a law. We now vote on proposal 1125 - C of the PS, in the part in which Article 2 ( ( e ) is amended. Annex III — Tax incentive scheme for recovery, as referred to in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH and the PAN, the IL, the PCP and the BE and the L abstention.]] The vote on Article 2 ( ( e ) shall be adversely affected. Annex III, as contained in the proposal for a law. We shall vote for the body of Article 2. Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, IL, PAN and L, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD and CH.]] We then jointly vote on Article 3 ( 1 ), 2 ( a ) and ( b ) and 3 ( 2 ). the ( Tax Incentive) of Annex III — System of the Fiscal Incentive for Recovery, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote on points ( a), ( b ) and ( c) and on the body of Article 3 ( 3 ). Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L.]] We shall vote together on paragraphs 4 and 5, 6 ( a ) and ( b ) and 3 ( 6 ). Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L.]] The vote on Article 3 ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) shall follow. Annex III — Tax incentive scheme for recovery, as referred to in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken and the votes against the CFP, BE and L and the PS, CH, IL and PAN abstained.]] Together we vote for Article 4 ( 1 ), ( a ) and ( b ) and for the body of Article 4 ( 2 ). the ( Eligible investment expenditure ) of Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PS, CH, PAN and L were adopted with votes in favour of the PS and IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 4 ( 3 ). Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the CFP and BE and with the abstentions of the SDP, the CH, the NAP and the L were adopted with the support of the PS and the IL.]] We shall vote on Article 4 ( 4 ). Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against the PS, CH, IL and the NAP were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote on points ( a), ( b ) and ( c) and on the body of Article 4 ( 5 ). Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the IL and the L, against the PCP and the BE and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the NAP.]] We voted for Article 4 ( 6 ). Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the CFP and BE and with the abstentions of the SDP, the CH, the NAP and the L were adopted with the support of the PS and the IL.]] We turn to the joint vote on Articles 4 ( 7, 8 and 9 ). Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L.]] We shall vote for Article 5. Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL and the L, votes against the PCP and the BE and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote on Article 6 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). Article 7. Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the IL and the PAN, against the PCP and the BE and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the L.]] We now vote on Article 8. Annex III, as set out in Article 242. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the body of Article 242. o — Tax incentive for recovery, contained in the bill. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L.]] We turn to Article 248. o — Special contribution for the conservation of forest resources. We shall vote on proposal 873 - C, submitted by the PSD, to delete the same article. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1021 - C, submitted by the PS, adding an article 256. o -A — Provision of IRS in favour of youth associations. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We turn to Article 259. o — Supplement Guarantee for Children. As there is agreement, we shall vote in bloc all the article of the proposal: paragraphs 1, points ( a ), ( b ) and ( c ) and the body of paragraph 2, paragraph 3, paragraph 4, paragraphs 5 and 6. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on the proposal 809 - C, tabled by the IL, for the addition of Article 262. o -A— Update of the More Transparency portal. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 812 - C, tabled by the Czech Republic, on the addition of Article 262. o -A — Prohibition of the accumulation of pensions by holders of political positions and high public positions and reduction of maturity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u68	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u69	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u70	Mr President, for this article of proposal 812 - C, I call for the breakdown of the vote of paragraphs 1 and 2 together and paragraph 3 separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u71	As there is no objection to the proposal's proposal, we shall first vote on paragraphs 1 and 2 of this proposal 812 - C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] We now vote on paragraph 3 of the same proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the IL, the NAP and the L.]] The vote was followed by the vote on proposal 1127 - C submitted by the CFP on the addition of Article 262. o -A — Amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September ( Establishes the financial arrangements for local authorities and intermunicipal entities ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u72	Mr. President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u73	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u74	Mr President, I would ask us to vote on the proposal in two groups. in the first group, we would vote on Articles 16 together. o, 19. o -A, 40. o, 49. o, 52. o is 54. in the second group we would vote on Articles 25. o, 36. o is 55. the, contained in this proposal 1127 - C.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u75	Having no objection to the CFP, we will then vote on proposal 1127 - C in two blocks. First we vote on Articles 16. o, 19. o -A, 40. o, 49. o, 52. o is 54. o [[Subject to vote, votes against PS and IL and votes against PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We now vote on the block made up of Articles 25. o, 36. o is 55. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We proceed with the vote on proposal 806 - C, tabled by the IL, to add Article 262. o-B — Suspension of public support for associations linked to entities sanctioned under the Russian invasion of Ukraine, with the amendment proposed by the PS, ending in « High Commissioner for Migration. », and accepted by the proposer. [[When put to the vote, the PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L were voted in favour of the PS, and against the CFP.]] We therefore end the voting period. We will allow time for the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs to remodel the government bench. To do this, we're going to make a little five-minute interval, and then we're going to move on to the closing period. In the meantime, I recommend to the Members. Members who have not yet voted, like me, to go to the Senate Chamber for this purpose. [[It was 11 hours and 13 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please fill your seats in the benches. [[It was 11 hours and 27 minutes.]] Let us begin point 4 of our agenda, with the closure of the discussion, in the speciality, of the Bill No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u76	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, Faces and Dear Colleagues : Portugal has an alternative. It has an alternative that goes through the rearrangement of our institutional work to reach a more qualified, more value-added economy that allows for raising wages, strengthening social security and, through a more fair, progressive tax collection, financing excellent public services that make the country more attractive. The country we have is not the enemy of the country we want. In a small country on a global scale, medium on a European scale, with the geographical position that gives it access to globality, we can make an elite of European and Atlantic services which sets young Portuguese and foreign, which allows us to bring this value added; we can reorganise the relations between work and capital, representing the precarious majority and giving it conditions for training and creating inclusive productivity; we can, with small and medium-sized enterprises, change our production paradigm, injecting knowledge, technology, teamwork, accountability, autonomy — an economy of knowledge which is now isolated in some academic departments, in some state-of-the-art companies, but which we can spread by the economy in general and lead it to agriculture, investing in precision agriculture and agroecology, making small family farms sustainable, giving them the opportunity, through quality and not quantity agriculture, to position themselves in global markets. Portugal has an alternative! The country we have is not the enemy of the country we want, I said, but sometimes the policy we have is the enemy of the country we want. For a different country, a different policy is needed, particularly on the left — and for this it serves a liberal, ecological, Europeanist left, as represented by the Free in this Parliament — a left that wants to discuss, at the same time, the great visionary changes in progress, which some say are unrealistic, but which we have brought to debate in this Budget, from the unconditional basic income to ecological and free school transport. These are proposals that have unfortunately been on the way, but we hope to be able to get along with them in this Parliament and which have further support. But it is also necessary to make changes that make the difference in people's lives: to extend unemployment benefit to victims of domestic violence, to provide social support to couples who move inside and to workers and workers who want to form and qualify and bet on a house renewal programme, to which we call 3C — Home, Comfort and Climate, which goes up to 100 % reimbursement for the lowest income levels, which gives more comfort and dignity to people in their homes, which lowers the bill of energy and allows us to help save the planet and give energy sovereignty to Europe. The Freeman worked to make this budget better than what was presented to us, which means that the country is better than what we had before the last elections, so that we can take a path, which is a difficult but constructive path. That is why the Free will will not vote in favour of this budget, not being able to follow its overall strategy, but will not vote against either, because some path has been made and we hope that, on the way we have to the 2023 budget, many of these ideas will come true.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u77	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, again, the pleasure of attending our work is that of the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Guinea-Bissau People's National Assembly who, under the chairmanship of Mr Higino Lopes Cardoso, Chairman of the respective Committee on Legal Affairs, Constitutionals, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, are visiting our Parliament. I greet you again. [[General applause, stand up.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u78	Mr President, I begin by greeting the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present here, as well as all attending this session. I cannot fail to thank the services of the Assembly of the Republic, the directors of the Committee on Budgets and Finance and also the advisers of my own office, as a single Member, for the inexhaustible and always exemplary work you have done this week. As regards the discussion of this State budget, the NAP has always said that it was a marathon and that, more important than discussing the shortcomings that it pointed out in the version in which it entered, here in Parliament, we should discuss what we really wanted to make the difference, with the introduction of substantial improvements in the version that would leave here today. Although there has been some delay in the government in the negotiation process and it has not gone as far as we wanted, the truth is that there are very important advances arising from the NAP's hand, advances that result in a budgetary commitment amounting to almost EUR 100 million and that bring more intergenerational justice and, above all, a greener, more ecological and more sustainable budget, which ensures that future generations can in fact inherit a more committed planet with well-being and quality of life. When, yesterday, we read news of the impact climate change is having on Somalia, which faces the worst drought in four decades, in areas vulnerable to climate change, we cannot ignore that Portugal will be one of the countries most affected by the climate crisis and we need to have Budgets and public policies strongly committed to the crisis of our lives. It is thanks to the NAP that we have a greener budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u79	Thanks to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u80	We have proposed, and we have achieved, EUR 20 million for public transport in the interior. We have proposed, and we have achieved, EUR 40 million to make the homes of people who live in more comfortable energy poverty and, above all, climate-friendlyly more sustainable. We want more resilient and more guarded forests. We have managed to keep an eye on nature, we have managed EUR 5 million to ‘deeucaliptar’ Portugal, and we have also managed to increase the percentage, up to 15 % this year, to promote organic farming. We have also achieved the so-called "free rivers" so that they can run freely and there is a depollution of them. We see autarchs tearing cycloviae, but we have achieved EUR 1 million for the National Strategy for Cycling Active Mobility in our country. Also in the defence of human rights, no one has been left behind: we have proposed the fight against trafficking in human beings, the national network of breast milk banks, Portuguese gestual interpreters. More: at a time when the state of New has fattened in this Parliament... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u81	... and in which preservation is increasingly pressing, we were able to approve the transformation of the house of Aristides of Sousa Mendes into a museum. And thanks to the NAP, we have an empathic budget for all animals, an budget that gives EUR 13 million for animal welfare measures, which include the construction of a public veterinary hospital for those who need the most and a national contingency plan, together with advances, for example, with centres for the recovery of wild animals. in this marathon, it is true that we have come to an end without seeing a remarkable set of measures approved, such as the renegotiation of New Bank contracts, the end of tax bills to the pollutant industry, the reduction of VAT in essential cabaz or veterinary services, but we have made a path, and that is why the NAP will abstain in this global final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u82	Vote for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u83	But, Prime Minister, you called here so many times that there was still a lot of road to walk. We hope that, during this legislature, the government will not come with its compressor role of the absolute majority asphalt this same road because, with the serious commitment we have achieved, with the dialogue, with the negotiation, won the country, gained democracy and, above all, won the environment and won future generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u84	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, I give the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u85	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget was, in the electoral campaign, the most left of all. It wins the absolute majority and reveals the Budget of the « after all, no». After all, it does not improve income; after all, it does not protect the social state; after all, there is no dialogue in the absolute majority. Nothing surprises us, but let's go. No. 1. the May one month ago, the Prime Minister announced: we will « continue the objective of increasing the weight of wages in GDP (gross domestic product ) ». Two days later, the Presidency Minister explained that she did not. The Budget does not update wages or inflation pensions and no one will have the courage to say that inflation is a passing thing. The price gallop is cutting wages and pensions in a very real and no transitional way. Even if inflation is slowing down — as we all expect — prices will continue to rise and wages will be lost. The rise in energy price began a year ago. There's no news, and no one's caught by surprise. The government has chosen, yes, to lose those who live in their work, at a time when the economy is growing and productivity is increasing. It's just the wages they're picking up. The government does not update wages because — it says — it fears more inflation, but refuses to control the profit margins, which, yes, cause inflation. The government even opts to let millions speculate. The most recent report by Oxfam is clear: with the pandemic, a new multimillionaire has emerged every 30 hours and, every 33 hours, 1 million people have become at risk of extreme poverty. In Portugal, Galp, Pingo Doce, Continent announce the distribution of millionaire dividends. Meanwhile, those who work, and even those who work there, live in pain to pay for fuel and supermarket.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u86	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u87	Therefore, organisations such as the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) have come to defend the taxation of excessive profits and countries such as the liberal United Kingdom or Draghi Italy are moving forward to tax 25 % of these dropped profits from heaven. On the other hand, the Portuguese Government rejects any measure that limits profits and introduces balance in the economy. He promised to improve labour income and reduce inequalities, and even admitted a special rate, but he reached the Budget and — surprise! — after all, no. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The same is true in public services. In the debate of the Government Programme, the Prime Minister proclaimed, looking at that bench on my right: « the future is not liberal. The future is of the social state. » I agree, the government is that, after all, no. In health, the National Health Service ( SNS) can spend on hiring with privates which cannot invest in its functioning and can pay more to external service providers than in wages. In the first quarter of this year alone, it spent 34 million euros on jobs, which would give more than 1000 permanent professionals, which, after all, the National Health Service continues to be unable to hire. Very liberal state, little social state. In education, this school year ends with 7,000 students without teachers; the next one will start with tens of thousands in this situation and there is no answer to counter the rapid aging of the teaching body. You know, next year the court will open with the usual complaints that, without means, there will be no justice. In culture, accounts made, support programmes, so-called sustained, have less budget than they had. The climate transition continues without program or planning. In social security, not even support for the poorest of the poor is updated by inflation. And in the housing, public response commitments have disappeared, but they continue to see gold, benefits for non-usual residents and real estate funds, deregulation of local housing. Very liberal, little social status. [[Congratulations from BE.]] No one's wrong about the accounts. Tax revenue will increase with inflation. The budget for public services is that it loses to inflation. The old mantra to do more with less. Everything — they tell us — to comply with the rules of a budget treaty which Brussels has decided, well, to suspend, not only this year, but also at least next year. In March, the Prime Minister said, and I quote: « we must ensure that deficit and debt reduction paths are responsibly adjusted to the circumstances we are living in ». But in May, after all, no. In the midst of a crisis of inflation, the government faces one of the lowest deficits in the whole of the European Union, as if that restrictive choice were adjusted to the circumstances we are experiencing. Finally, no, this is not the budget of the absolute majority of dialogue that Antonio Costa promised in the elections. The budget comes out of Parliament as it has entered. The PS has twisted the Rules of Procedure and played the concessions, but it has not changed anything significant. Public services will have little budget and low wage workers, but, judging by the concessions, we will see a second half full of studies, training, reports, pilot projects of pilot projects and campaigns that you do not know how or who will do. The PS even agreed to study what he had already said in his program that he would study. It approved to rename energy efficiency programs, being greater commitment to changing the image of sites and forms than the program itself. It's all very efficient. And he even approved to give information on the products to be distributed, but whose distribution has led. Confused? Not at all! Nine out, nothing's nothing. It would only be loaded if it were not a deliberate maneuver to discredit Parliament and, with it, to confront the political alternatives. And that was the only dialogue in the Budget of the « after all, no ». [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, both in the general vote and in the final vote, the Bloc refuses to be complicit in a plan to break wages and pensions, in a country of precarious employment and low wages, with public services deteriorating. I know that the Socialist Party comes to this debate installed in the comfort of the absolute majority, but the applause of the bench does not replace the confrontation with reality. The evaluation of this budget has not been made in the elections, it will be made by the country in the coming months. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u88	To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have brought up more than 300 proposals with solutions to address the problems affecting the lives of workers and the people. The intervention of the CFP is distinguished, rather than by the number of proposals, by the content of what I wanted to see in this budget. We have prioritized the recovery of wages and pensions; the regulation of energy prices, fuel prices and food goods; the valuation of public services and their workers, the National Health Service, the public school, social security; the extension of the supply of public transport; the guarantee of access to housing; the creation of a public network of day care; the relief of taxation on low and intermediate incomes and its increase on large capital; support for SMEs (micro, small and medium-sized enterprises), small and medium-sized farmers and fishermen. Justice, security forces and services, defense, science, support for youth, sport and popular associative movement were the target of our intervention. We tried not to leave any problems behind and presented solutions, solutions that the PS refused, as it had previously refused, but now with aggravated impacts, when urgent measures are needed to deal with the loss of purchasing power. The fact that the budget discussion is taking place in May would allow it to suit the reality of the past few months, but the PS has wasted this opportunity. The PS refused to value workers' wages, as proposed by the PCP, allowing a galloping inflation to turn into pay cuts. The PS refused the extraordinary increase of all pensions by 5, 3 %, and at least 20 €, as proposed by the PCP, imposing on the vast majority of reformed purchasing power losses, in contrast to the last five years. The PS refused to adopt measures to control and set prices on food, fuel, electricity and gas, as proposed by the PCP, leaving undamaged speculation and profits of economic groups. The PS rejected the implementation of the exclusive dedication scheme and the extension of incentives for the establishment of health professionals in areas lacking, as proposed by the PCP, which renders the government responsible for more than 1 million and 300 thousand Portuguese without a family doctor, for the postponement of consultations, surgeries and treatments, for the continued bleeding of health professionals of the SNS and for the transfer of public resources to the business of the disease of private groups, when they should be channeled for investment in the SNS. The PS refused to respond to the serious problem in which access to housing was transformed, choosing to leave families and young people unprotected and to the mercy of a liberalized market, which excludes a large part of the population from accessing a home. The PS refused the creation of a public network of day care centres and the extension of the free day care centre to finalize the process initiated with the proposal of the CFP. There is a huge distance between this Budget and the previous Budgets, which confirms that the advances achieved in recent years have only been possible by our persistence, and so many times against the will of the PS. This is a budget that passes alongside the structural problems of the country. in it there are no measures to ensure fair redistribution of wealth created, combat speculative prices, value public services, promote national production and support for productive sectors. It passes alongside the problems of youth, its autonomy and emancipation. It goes along with the rights of parents and children and a policy that guarantees their full development. from the discussion of the State budget for 2022 we can draw three conclusions. The first is the confirmation, for those who had doubts, that the absolute majority of the PS will not serve to respond to the problems of workers, the reformers, the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u90	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u91	The PS wanted elections to get rid of the CFP, and the first consequences of the absolute majority are disregarding the problems of workers and the people, and greater submission to the European Union's taxes. [[PCP applause.]] Secondly, the absolute majority of the PS, by refusing solutions to value wages and pensions, by removing the control of prices of essential goods, is responsible for a de facto cut in wages and pensions, for speculation and impoverishment on workers, pensioners, young people, the Portuguese people. The rhetoric of the Budget more to the left of always is no more than a joke. Finally, the absolute majority of PS not only faces not only how it embraces the interests of economic groups, an option in which it is not alone. It is symptomatic that in the rejection of the proposals that call into question the interests of the capital, the PS had as allies the PSD, IL and the Arrival. The discussion of this Budget still makes it clear that the cherished dialogue of the absolute majority is a farce. of the approved proposals, the overwhelming majority has no budgetary impact and will hardly have any translation into the lives of our people, being nothing more than an illusion, an illusion that the government very much appreciates. When the country needs a firm intervention to respond to what is most necessary — wages, pensions, price control, public services, investment — the PS is right with the NAP and the Free to divert attention from the essential to the accessory, approving proclamations. in what is serious and decisive for the country, remains the PS with an approved budget, but the problems of workers and the people will not have in it. The rhetoric of the right accounts conceals the disaster of family accounts when wages and pensions do not reach the end of the month. Certain accounts, as we have seen in these months, are the millions of euros of profits from Galp, EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), Sonae, Jerónimo Martins, of the generality of the private bank. This is the reality that the government should worry about: a more unfair, unequal and dependent country. The government says that safe and sustainable steps must be taken because war and sanctions are there, which also support. But by refusing the solutions presented by the CFP, the government not only does not guarantee the present as negates any prospect of the future. These are the reasons why we are voting against this budget. Mr President, the proposals we are making in this Budget are not a list of measures, they are part of a patriotic and left-wing alternative policy, a policy that confronts this absolute majority, but also the retrogression projects that PSD, Arrival and IL are taking the lead here. A policy that values work and workers, that breaks with external dependence, that promotes national production, support for productive sectors and MPMEs. A policy that defends the public services and social functions of the State, from health to education, from social protection to housing, from culture to justice. A fair fiscal policy. A policy of cooperation and peace among peoples and which does not promote war. from here we reaffirm: the workers, today in struggle with the Assembly of the Republic, count on the CFP. They count on this strength, that do not give up fighting for a Portugal with a future! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u92	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to those who, by chance, have not yet been able to exercise their right to vote, I remember that the polls will be open until 12 noon in the Senate Chamber. To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: After two years of many lives at rest, tired people and in emotional wear, a weary economy of the pandemic and delayed by years of bad choices of this government, in which Portugal continued to stand behind, in the tail of Europe, we now face the return of war and inflation. The world has changed, but there is something that remains: a budget in which the government shows lack of vision and lack of confidence in people and businesses. In companies, because it does not invest truly in the conditions of economic growth and business fabric, and in people, because it does not relieve them of the burden of taxes, it fails in basic functions and believes that the increase in tax revenue from inflation is better applied by the government than being returned to people's pockets.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u95	This is a bad three-dimensional budget: it does not contribute to improving businesses and growth; it does not contribute to public services; and it does not contribute to restoring the purchasing power of families. In the first dimension, does the Budget make it possible to prepare the economy for the future, by betting on businesses and economic growth? Don't! Our young people continue to have to emigrate to liberal countries to fulfil their ambitions, to have a better life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u97	The government says that the focus is on recovery and resilience. Well, the dictionaries have been in fashion these last few days. And what is resilience? It is the property of a body to recover its original form after suffering a shock or deformation. Now, the original form of PS governance, before the pandemic, was that which led to mediocre growth, to the deterioration of the school, to the broken social elevator, to the endless waiting lists in health, to the growing public expenditure, to the record tax burdens. So I ask: is this the state we want to maintain? Retrieve, recover? Yeah, that's what I'm saying, no, we don't want that. Mrs. Members, resilience is in us; resilience is in whom it has low wages; resilience is in young people who stay in Portugal, despite the calls of countries where they can fulfill their dreams; resilience is in whom it does not get a family doctor and in whom it expects, far beyond reasonable, for consultations and surgeries;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u99	... resilience is in the Portuguese taxpayers, permanently harassed by a government addicted to taxes; resilience is in the entrepreneurs who take their business forward — not that « Avante! », attention! The government seems to have only two objectives: to resist reforms and to spend millions of funds. But the objective of the State budget should not be so ambitious. Preparing for the future of a country is not to resist change. Preparing for the future is not avoiding reform. Above all, preparing for the future requires courage, requires strength of will, forces to give more importance to the country than to the party. What we should see in this Budget were measures to : prepare the country for the following generations; prepare a country turned for growth, and not for the growth of the state machine; prepare a country friendly to companies, investment friend, and not a country superburocratized, complicated, drowned in taxes; prepare a country that allows people to grow and feel that it is possible to improve their lives through work, without being crushed by marginal tax rates, which punish the success of those who work. Bringing a future to our country is not to resist change. And this is even less justified when you are faced with the greatest volume of funds ever and when you have the most formed generation ever. This government has no ambition to transform or reform and therefore this is a bad budget. We know that the pandemic was not our choice, we know that war was not our choice, we know that inflation was not our choice; but we also know that the government could have chosen a different attitude,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u101	... could — could! — have chosen different policies. As regards the second dimension, does this budget actually prepare the State for the functions that are essential? Here too, the answer is negative. Let's look at access to health. We have one country and two systems: one for whom you can pay or is a state official and one for all others, where health is an adventure—or misfortune! In 2021, we reached the highest maternal mortality rate of the last 30 years—which before the pandemic tended to grow—to add to waiting times, to surgeries carried out over time, to Portuguese without a family doctor. No, we do not want to recover the pre-pandamy situation, we need another state of health, one that is effectively for all. And, no, it is not the liberals who treat ill health or health professionals. I talked about health, but I could also talk about education: asymmetry of rankings, lack of indicators of implementation of the learning recovery plan, an education that is failing children and teachers. As for the third dimension, at least they bet on families? Again, the answer is « no ». We have introduced an IRS reduction measure that would help improve the lives of millions of Portuguese people, of those who struggle every day to arrive at the end of the month before the end of the salary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u103	We have heard in this budget that the government does not lower the IRS for those who have less because it can benefit those who have more. What a twisted logic! We're condemning those who earn less. The government, in practice, increases taxes by not updating the IRS steps and inflation has already increased by 7 % in April. To the enormous loss of purchasing power, the government joins an increase in taxes and, with inflation, it will charge more taxes. We have a government addicted to taxes, and those who pay that addiction are the taxpayers. In practice, the government is saying that it knows where to spend the unexpected profit of taxes instead of putting it back in the Portuguese purse. The Liberal Initiative relies more on businesses and people. This State budget does not contribute to the improvement of businesses and growth, it does not contribute to the fundamental areas, it does not contribute to the purchasing power of families and, therefore, our vote could only be against. We have tried to contribute proposals to improve each of these areas — reform and fiscal simplification for businesses, solutions for family doctors and waiting lists, tax measures for families — but, of course, this is not our budget. Five proposals were approved by the Liberal Initiative: two in the area of freedom and human dignity, in the field of domestic violence and freedom and sexual self-determination; one for the improvement of the Portal More Transparency, because there is a public duty in the management of public money; one for the anticipation of the Statute of the Bolseiro, which was approved unanimously and which rests concrete dreams and financial relief for these students;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u105	... and, even today, one for the suspension of public support to sanctioned entities that are linked to the Russian regime. We contributed to making a difference. In each of these measures are liberal values, it is work that we are proud of. But this is not our Budget and knows little about the country. It is that the country needed a change, but this government chose to resist. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u106	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u107	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members and Members : The film of this Budget was made before it began. The new legislation consists of an absolute majority of the Socialist Party, which has chosen the PAN and the Free as its appendices and will continue until the end. The arrogance of chuming everything to all and promoting two new partners, now to lose the left, now to undermine the right, is the always strategy of the Socialist Party. Such a compressor roll that would be a dialogueal majority leaded things like the exemption of IMI (municipal property tax) for firefighters, because it was a proposal from the Arrival, and leaded things like the VAT of restoration, even though this Prime Minister, who is here, had been the one who most announced that he wanted to lower the VAT from the restoration. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the Socialist Party has led to the privilege that politicians today have to accumulate vital pensions with their retirement pensions. For those at home know what I'm talking about: Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, former President of the Assembly of the Republic, who is probably seeing us at home and complaining from the plenary,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... has a pension of 3400 € per month. They heard well, €3400 per month, which adds a perpetual and permanent vital grant of €2635. In total, Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues receives more than 6000 € each month from the taxpayers. It was a measure against this which Parliament has led, and only the Arrival had the courage to denounce! [[Congrats from the CH.]] All this, in the country where there are pensioners who receive 278 € and where the general average is 474 €. But for politicians, for these, we are always here to give everything and this House is always here to give everything, even falling down what all the sense would be approved. But this is not only the Budget that maintains privileges, it is also the final and final budget of the state's fattening and political customers around it. It is the Budget that cannot give to families or businesses, but it can give to the same as ever—to the Government, to its appendices, to the Public Administration and to those who live next to the political system. Today, many Portuguese will ask why we have not been able to lower the VAT of restoration in one of the most difficult moments of their lives and why we have not been able to lower the VAT of fuels at a time when we leave a huge part of the salary when we go to the gas pump. You know why? For the same reason as always: we are feeding the greatest government in history and we are feeding a group of people who don't want to do anything in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] This, Mr President, is the budget of contradictions and absurdities. We have a government that, in the Budget, has thousands of euros spent on cars and drivers, but cannot finish the tolls for the transport of patients made by firefighters. See the contradiction of the country, in which we have more and more cars and more vans at the service of the state, but do not exempt from tolls those who carry sick every day. It's the opposite country! It is that country that maintains vital subsidies, but has led, by the hand of the PS, the special complement to the former fighters, who fought for this country and who have made it what is today. It's this curious country! Open... [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is a country on the contrary, a country contrary to what should be, in which the police—and some are here on duty—will now receive money to have training on LGBTI (Lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and intersex) but do not have a decent risk allowance for the exercise of their task and their work. See what is important to the Socialist Government: money for training on LGBTI. But there is no money for risk allowance for those who give life every day for us! [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the opposite country of the socialist government. It is the Socialist Government in which this Prime Minister moves to Ukraine, sometimes in military uniforms, sometimes without military uniforms, to announce that he will support Ukraine with EUR 250 million. We are all and want to be solidarity with Ukraine, but we cannot walk the world outside to give 250, 300 and 400 million and not have money for Portuguese pensioners, or for consumers, or for those who work in Portugal. This is what this government needs to understand. An absolute majority can give the appearance that they can do whatever they want, but reality is not replaced by any parliamentary majority. The government, at the time we are talking here, cannot contain EUR 1000 million of waste in many ministries, as is the case with health, as is the case with education and as is the case with justice. It's EUR 1 billion in waste! Meanwhile, at the time we are talking here, young unemployment reaches 24 % and a third of the young people with higher education receive less than € 767 per month. Tell me whether this is a country or not! A country that says 'yes, sir, we can maintain all these privileges, we can fatten the state machine, we can fatten those who live on account of the state machine and the political machine, but it is better for our young people to emigrate, because that is where they can have a future'! It is the opposite of what should be done in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Prime Minister, allow me to address you to ask ourselves why, in this continuing impoverishment of the country and in this loss of systematic purchasing power, nevertheless, our entrepreneurs, our businesses, our small businesses say that there are no people to work. We all know the answer and we're all afraid to say here, in this House. Why is it that in this systematic impoverishment, in this loss of constant income, there is so much lack and so many people that they do not want to work? Why do business and business continue without people to work? We all know why! The alliance between the PS and the Free, here in Parliament, was clear: subsidies for everyone, both those who want to work, and those who do not want, subsidies — they win what they earn! — and even pilot projects for weeks of four working days! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Whoever heard us from outside would think that we are at the top of the world's income scale and that, therefore, we can afford to play with the economy and with the money of the Portuguese. Only not, we can't. And who is watching us well knows what it is that we want people to work and not find, what it is that we have to support with the IRS and VAT all the expenses, fantasies and proposals that the Socialist Government wants to carry out. This is the country that will soon approve a universal basic income for all. Very likely, we will still pay Joseph Socrates anything, because, in fact, he is a good citizen, even though he has bullied our Prime Minister. [[Congrats from the CH.]] My dear ones, what we have today in Portugal is probably never seen and will hardly be seen in other countries of the European Union. But as long as we do not understand that it is not the State, that it is not the political customers, that it is not the positions appointed for the Public Administration, that we do not understand that it is not those we have to support, that it is not those we must always be subsidizing, that it is not those we must always be handing out, the country will never have the energy it needs to regain the path we are making. Today, the Minister of Finance has finally come to the House, and I do not know if he has come from Brussels, if from anywhere else, to attend the vote and the crowning of the Budget with an absolute majority. But by the time Fernando Medina sits here we know we have 12. the biggest public debt in the world and it is also known that we are at risk of becoming the 3. the poorest country of the European Union. And that is what the government here is saying, at the same time as it wants weeks of work, allowances for those who do not want to work and the continued fattening of the state machine. Many Portuguese people who are at home today ask: Are we on the right track? Clearly, we are not on the right track. We're on our way to bankruptcy, we're on our way to destruction. And I am almost sure, even without reading in the stars, that this government will take us to the same bankruptcy that the last socialist government has taken, and we will then be here to pay. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u108	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u109	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members: What became clear in the Budget was that the PS approved proposals from all parties, including those from their new partners, and only dropped all proposals from one party. That party is enough. For us, that's neither a curriculum nor a record. It is a great pride to know that today there is only one party in this House that effectively faces the Socialist Party! It is a great pride to be able to say it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Finally, Mr. President, with a sentence, adapted, of Francisco Sá Carneiro... [[PS and PSD protests and CH counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u110	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us create the conditions for Mr Ventura to finish his speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Sá Carneiro is one of them all, my friends! I end with a phrase by Francisco Sá Carneiro that makes all the sense in relation to what the arrival is today in this House, with all the blockade of the Socialist Party and the other parties: "We never felt so alone and we were never so sure that we were so sure of what we are doing". That is how we feel, ready to fight the Socialist Party. Long live Portugal! [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] [[PS and PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u112	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor. [[Pause.]] I ask for silence in the hall. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u113	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic today will vote, almost in the middle of 2022, a State budget for this exercise, which is, in fact, a budget dated 2021 and recapitulated, or, to use a more forward term, recondicated, since, in practice, it is the same document that, in October last year, the previous Government of Dr. António Costa has negotiated with the Communist Party and with the Block of Left. If at that time the PSD considered that the proposed Budget did not respond to the country's needs and emergencies, for most reasons, this applies to a Budget that ignores, ostensibly, that from there the world has changed, the Country has changed and the needs, concerns and hopes of the Portuguese are now others, knowing that none of these changes have occurred in a positive sense. The government did not take advantage of the atypical circumstance of having a State budget voted almost half a year to adapt it to the demands of the present time, shaken by a war on European soil, which had not happened long ago. Nor have the effects of the economic and social upheaval caused by the invasion of Ukraine by Russia been sufficient to lead the Government to rethink the objectives and priorities of the main governance instrument, which is the State budget. The Government looked at one hand and saw the proposal for Budget that had been rejected, looked at the other hand and saw the absolute majority, meanwhile conquered by the Socialist Party and then concluded that it was not worth trying to present to this House a Budget consistent with the current reality, since it could be trusted by the weight of the absolute majority, it was only a small step. The Government argues that this budget proposal is exactly what was taken to vote in the legislative elections, as referred to by the voters. This would be good if the circumstances had not changed since October 2021 and did not demand this change, but it is wrong when that happens. This little credible socialist declaration of loyalty to voters is — it is noted — made precisely by the same ones that, only three months after the elections, are already flagrantly failing to fulfill the promises they made during the election campaign. [[PSD applause.]] It is clear: it took three months for the government and the Socialist Party to give the floor for not saying. Everyone recalls that in the election campaign, the Socialist Party promised to increase Portuguese incomes, not only the minimum wage — indicating up to a concrete value of €900 in 2026, that now Mr. Prime Minister refuses to say whether he is up to date in nominal terms – but also the average wage, particularly as a result of the increase in salaries of civil servants. Today, everyone already realizes the ambush, inflation has become a harsh reality that has entered into the lives of the Portuguese inside and the legitimate expectations that income would be protected, thanks to the increase in promised wages, have been completely undermined. Today, the Portuguese know what they can count on: inflation in 2021 was 1, 3 % and the government expects 4 % inflation in 2022 in a very conservative projection, as confirmed by reality until almost half of the year, but updates wages only by 0, 9 %. Only here, at best, will public servants already lose 4, 4 % of the purchasing power and not even expected an update, according to inflation, of the lowest salaries of the public service or lower pensions. This lack of updating cannot — it is noted — be justified by the need to contain inflation expectations, considering that this budget is now not voted for the following year, but already in the middle of the budget year, in which this inflation is a harsh reality. As the Portuguese are already noticing, their loss of income is not a fallacy invented by the opposition, it is real and effective and has been aggravated by the divergence of our creation of wealth in relation to the European average. Over 20 years ago, the per capita GDP of Portuguese was 85% of the European average; when the PS returned to the government in 2016, after the recovery of the bankruptcy it had created, it was 77 %; today it is 74 %. This is, in two decades, we have lost more than 10 percentage points of per capita income in relation to the European average income. We have embarked on an endless process of relative impoverishment. And these years, which interrupted almost half a century of convergence, were years of socialist governance, except those few in which the PSD ruled to remove the country from bankruptcy for socialist governance to shoot it. [[PSD applause.]] The loss of the purchasing power of workers in general and public officials and pensioners in particular is therefore the result of the fight against the promise with hard reality. The PS promised something just over three months ago in an election campaign, but in the government it does another, diametrically opposite. The representative assembly of all Portuguese cannot make clear this obvious breach of commitment of the Socialist Party and of Dr.António Costa. Moreover, it cannot be concluded that the promise of increased income has already been made with the awareness that it is going to fail, because the government already had to know that inflation was rising and that it came to remain indefinitely undetermined. The Government itself acknowledged it in form and with publication in the Journal of the Republic, just as this Budget is being discussed, because it then approved a special regime for revision of public contracts due to inflation, in Decree-Law No 36 / 2022, in which a true role of galloping inflation in the construction and labour sector can be read out in the preamble. But more perverse than everything is that, with the current level of inflation, the State is relieving its financial needs and, in this sense, enriching while the State workers impoverish. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u114	The socialist state enriches, the workers impoverish. [[PSD applause.]] We understand the government's intention to reduce debt, even because it was the socialist governments who created it, but in a year in which much more nominal terms will be achieved, in which debt will decrease by percentage of GDP for the same reason, it cannot be accepted that it will be done only at the expense of impoverishment of public workers and unmet promises. The correct image, therefore, is no longer the prime minister, who is to draw on a copy of the State budget proposal, as he did at the end of the debate of the last election campaign. The image that has now been clearly revealed is that of Dr. António Costa waving, yes, but with a true compendium of promises not fulfilled. [[PSD applause.]] The budget debate has shown that the government has simulated apparent dialogues and openness for negotiation with some parties. At the conclusion of the discussion and vote of the Budget, it is clear, however, that it was clearly a simulation, with real marginalization of the opposition by an absolute power. With a single exception, which aimed to eliminate blatant illegality and unconstitutionality, we had the full rejection of all the proposals submitted by the Democratic Social Party, without justification, even those proposals that reproduced literally promises made by the Socialist Party itself a few months ago. The compressor roll of the absolute majority rejected the updating of public service salaries to cover only part of inflation; the updating of the steps of the IRS, which will lead to even higher tax burden, which was already, in 2021, the highest ever in Portugal ; the reformulation and increase of funding to higher education; the reduction of waiting times in health, through the granting of vouchers for the realization of the medical acts concerned; the national coverage of family doctors, which was already promised by 2017; the strengthening of the continuing and palliative care network; etc. etc. etc. The Socialist Party announced in campaign that it would build new hospitals long ago and, for example, the new motherhood in Coimbra, announced to be launched in three weeks, but that perhaps by the municipality has ceased being socialist, has evaporated, however, the articulated of the Budget and the promises. [[PSD applause.]] The Government has entered a vague intention in the budget report, listing names of works, but has forgotten to include specific deadlines, dates, values and targets in the budget proposal. And when the PSD presents proposals to include in the articulated these new works, corresponding to socialist promises, with defined financing models, specific deadlines and specific dates of implementation, to allow their conclusion in this Legislation, what does the PS do? Against, against, against and against! Step: the Socialist Party, in May, votes against rigorously all the works corresponding to the promises it had made to the voters, in January,... [[PSD applause.]] ... promises that, in order to help you meet them, the PSD proposed that they be included in the Budget and that they had already been abundant and repeatedly announced by the Government. It is concluded that not only these works have not been built in the last six years but there is also no intention of being built in the next four, and that those who lose are not the opposition, are the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government plans to reduce the budget deficit by 2, 8 % by 2022 to 1, 9 % of GDP. Once again, he will use the subordinating of revenue, the window of opportunity for a good economic situation he has had so far and this year, too, the real mana that is for this fiscal year inflation, a hidden tax that benefits the state and impoverishs the Portuguese. The reduction in debt will not happen, however, in 2022, for the benefit of a structural budgetary consolidation, as was expected, because the absence of genuine fiscal consolidation and the full dependence of the budgetary results of the low level of interest and the favourable economic cycle are the very brand of the socialist governments since 2016 — an irresponsible option, which does not prejudge, in goodness, cycle investments for recessive phases, and these always happen invariably. The biggest sin of this Budget is, however, to be a Budget like management, in which no courage or reformist will be divided to introduce improvements in the conditions of business activity and to increase the potential growth of our economy. I belong, many of us belong to generations who grew up with a dream, which later turned out to be an illusion, largely because of irresponsible policies of socialist governments:... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u115	...the dream that Portugal converged at least with the European Union's average of wealth. The problem, however, is that it is not possible to recover by taking advantage only of the economic cycle, without increasing the potential growth of the country, and this is not done without reforms. Now, the 2022 Budget shows once again that this Government and this Prime Minister are the least reformist and the most conservative we have had since the beginning of the century, whether by accommodation or by tactics, or by fear of loss of popularity. [[PSD applause.]] This Prime Minister and this Government, which during this Parliament — if they do so to the end — will be able to come forward with five budgets, however, have unique conditions, which no one had in democracy, to re-grow the country economically, to put Portugal on a path of success and finally to make that dream of countless generations, which is also a condition for obtaining means for social policies. With an absolute majority, a favourable situation until recently, a co-operative President of the Republic and the major party to the opposition in a constructive attitude, it is only to apply the correct policies, it is not just to manage the crisis and not to try to find excuses or alibis for its own failure. Unfortunately, what we see in this first State Budget of the absolute socialist majority, however, is that it will soon waste the first opportunity, which does so without even reacting to the change in the situation seen in recent months and without protecting the Portuguese. For example, it is safe to say that tax revenue will have much higher growth than expected by the government, but expenditure does not accompany this development. In 2022, we can without doubt anticipate a year of further fiscal aggravation for natural people due to the lack of updating of the IRS steps, a tax burden that is already the highest in our history, without counterpart in the supply of public goods and services and without compensation for the loss of purchasing power. Again, I repeat: the state will enrich, the Portuguese will impoverish. In short, this is a budget which does not lay the groundwork for reforms in the medium and long term recovery and convergence, nor does it protect Portuguese in the short term. On the contrary, it is a Budget whose marks are, in addition to the financial relief to the State, the decrease in purchasing power and the reduction in the actual wages of the Portuguese, the consequent increase in poverty and the impoverishment of pensioners, as well as the flagrant failure of the promises made recently in the election campaign, which greatly contributes to discrediting political activity, one of the worst effects of this form of action. It is therefore Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, from a State budget to 2022 that does not reform the State and that impoverishs the Portuguese, a budget that does not serve Portugal or the Portuguese. For these reasons, the PSD cannot fail to vote against its approval. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u116	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u117	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: Today we conclude a process started in October 2021, when the XXII Constitutional Government presented, in this House, a Budget with the same political options that we will have today. In October last year, the bill did not even come to the debate in the specialty, having deprived the Portuguese of a budget that could improve their lives, a budget that was already increasing incomes and that would resume convergence, interrupted by two years of pandemic, with the European Union: more wages, more pensions and more economic growth. The elections of 30 January allowed us to overcome a political crisis that we did not want, that we did not want, and that, before a pandemic, this Parliament, from the left, to the left of the PS, to the democratic right, should and could have avoided. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese have solved the problem created in this Chamber and have clearly assumed in the elections the intention to pursue the policies that this Budget frames, advocates and continues. The Portuguese have chosen who governs and who opposes and have told us clearly that this Budget is even to carry forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is part of democratic humility that knows how to win and how to lose, how to govern and how to oppose. Everyone, without exception, can and should serve democratically Portugal. But we must say, and point out, that, fortunately, as the voters said in January, the Portuguese, in fact, do not live in the country where the opposition parties speak in their speeches. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that the scenario in May 2022 is different from that we had in October 2021. The economic uncertainty that emerges from the effects of the pandemic and now the war, with an inflationary outbreak, particularly in energy and food goods, makes a difference compared to October. This framework has been answered by the Government, with public measures and policies based on the best and most recent information available, and the potentially conjunctural nature of inflation is still highlighted. In spite of this volatility, Portugal has since September presented the second lowest average inflation rate in the Community as a whole. The first data from 2022 show that the Portuguese economy is growing at a good rate and that unemployment has reached historically low values. Portugal, this month of May, was one of the two countries whose growth was expected at a high level by the European Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If it is true that these data are encouraging, the caution with which the country must respond to this uncertainty — and it cannot fail to be clear and unequivocally the signs of debt reduction and deficit — has not left the Government and Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party with fallen arms, nor hostages of any inevitability, having acted on prices, supporting the most vulnerable and establishing a framework of budgetary predictability which was too late, but which will finally be achieved today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State Budget Bill for 2022 presents, as we have underlined, an inflation mitigation package corresponding to EUR 1800 million of price-increasing measures: around 0, 85 % of GDP. It is essential not only to stress the political option of supporting those who need the most, but not to embark on adventurous or fearsome routes, which put the stability of public policies at risk, leaving Portuguese and their families at risk. Mr President, this is a targeted budget — a clear option which I would like to stress again, as I pointed out a month ago — above all to the middle class, a budget that strengthens income, relieves taxes, supports birth and supports the younger ones, in particular those who start their professional lives, who want to continue studying, who want to form a family or guarantee their independence. Let us look at a concrete example: a young couple, in which they both receive the average wage, around 1250 euros gross, with two children, one with 6 years and another with less than 1 year of life, living in a metropolitan area, sees, as we know, as a result of this Budget, their strengthened income. This without forgetting, I repeat, without forgetting, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who increased the average wage 15, 6 % in real terms between 2015 and 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The break-up of the steps of IRS allows this young couple to save about € 140 annually. Also at IRS headquarters, this young couple benefits from the increase in the deduction to collection from the second child up to 6 years, allowing an additional saving of 150 €. The start of the daycare free process, provided for in this Budget, will also allow a significant saving, relieving this young couple of the payment of the social network units your youngest child can attend, around €100 per month, on the basis of the agreements most recently signed with the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), which will give an annual saving of €1200. If one of the members of this young couple is covered by IRS Youth or the Return Program, the annual savings can be even more significant, with the exception of IRS of a substantial part of the income. In the case of IRS Young, if one of the elements of the couple benefits from the exemption of 30 % in the first year of contract, it may increase income by around €1470 per year. In the case of the Return Program, if one of the elements is covered by this measure, savings may amount to €2490. The Portuguese know that this budget thinks in the country in the medium term and gives continuity to the policies pursued in the previous legislatures. It was this logic of continuity and strengthening of income policies that allowed, and continues to, savings resulting from the measure to reduce, in particular, the value of social passes. For example, this young couple from the metropolitan area can reach a saving of €50 per month, per person, in their travel costs. If it were right to rule, none of this would be possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat, none of this would be possible. If the right would govern, we would not have broken down the steps of IRS, nor the advance in the freeness of day care, we would not have had to reduce the costs of social passes and IRS Young would not have seen the light of day. If the right would govern, this young couple would not have an increase in their available income, which can reach, together, at least € 2690 annually,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u118	What kind of bad stories!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u119	... excluding from here the measures of the youth IRS or the Return Program. With the support of the pass and day care and the IRS descent, an average salary earns purchasing power in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If the right hand were to govern, this young couple would have much more difficulty in dealing with this inflation scenario. If the right was to govern, a young couple with two children would not see their income strengthened by approximately 7, 7 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u120	It would be more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u121	... which corresponds to more than one salary per year for each member of the couple. If the right would govern, we would not have a policy of income strengthening those most needed and, for everyone, we would have a reduction of unequal taxes and, therefore, unfair,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u123	...in which the reduction of taxes for the richest would leave behind most of the Portuguese and, I would say, would actually put the famous social elevator working only for those who are already on the top floors. with us, with the PS, this is never an acceptable policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese know, and the left to the left of the PS should also know, that if the right would govern, we would now be closer to the cuts in income and the widespread impoverishment of Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u124	It's just demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u125	Mr. President, this is our budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u126	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u127	... but it is also the fruit of the interparty dialogue. [[With whom?! With the Book?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u128	This is not only because the bill had already included advanced measures, still in October, by the PCP and the ENP,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u129	... as because today it has 119 amendments, not only from the PS Parliamentary Group, but mostly I stress most of the parties to the democratic opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are about 66 proposals that have improved the proposed State Budget Act, seeking the majority, respecting their electoral mandate, understanding, exploring and accepting different perspectives. We always said it: most PS will continue to be a majority of dialogue and bridges, a majority that respects the oppositions,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] ...that of them disagrees democratically, but that will always seek an area of understanding which reflects the joint work of representation that this House has to exercise. Perhaps he has escaped in particular some of the banks of this House, but let me say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group alone voted against only when all the other banks voted in favour of less than 2% of the proposed amendments to this budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It voted against less than 2 %, i.e. 28. The PS voted against, alone, 28 of the 1432 amendments which were voted upon in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The time has gone by when the opposition in this Parliament, when the right was an absolute majority, did not see its proposals adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u130	They did the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u131	I recall that in November 2013, in this Chamber, with the right-wing majority, the absolute right passed only six, I repeat, six proposals of the democratic opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, let me tell you, in a direct response to your intervention, that the PS Parliamentary Group approved more proposals from its bank in this Budget than the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups approved in 2013 the entire opposition, which then on the left fights the troika. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only from the PSD, we approved more proposals than those that, then, the absolute right approved the opposition. Let us go back to the proposals that have improved the bill. I would like to highlight some of the following: the recruitment of Portuguese gestal interpreters to the SNS; the extension of the unemployment allowance to victims of domestic violence; the strengthening of the training of judges to combat crimes against freedom and sexual self-determination; the change in VAT rates applied to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in the Autonomous Region of Madeira; the reduction in the time limit for considering the hiring of third-country nationals. These are just some of the proposals adopted by the democratic spectrum of this House, which result from the will that we have to pursue a path of dialogue on the left and right, always in the majority which is the result of the Portuguese will, a majority who cannot and should not resign from the full and democratic exercise of the power conferred upon it by the voters. The majority have a clear legitimacy and the PS Parliamentary Group must not fail to exercise, under the penalty of letting anyone in fact govern — and this is important to underline — the Portuguese wanted to put in opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a Budget for continuing to build social elevators, as we have been doing, promoting access to public school and SNS or, in another dimension, investing in innovation, research and development and the qualification of our scientific and technological system. The school dropout rate was set at 5, 2 % and Portugal is thus clearly as the European country with the best evolution of this indicator in the last two decades. Between 2015 and 2020, the drop-out rate showed a 35 % decrease in Portugal, while the overall fall in the European Union was only 8 %. This, yes, is a structural reform of the Socialist Party, a reform that reinforces the wager in a knowledge economy capable of adding value and dynamizing economic growth. It was also during the governments of the Socialist Party that Portugal reached a higher rate of training in young people between 20 and 24 years of age of 22, 4 %, a rate of 5 percentage points higher than the European Union average.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u132	What about corruption? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u133	These reforms reinforce innovation, productivity, exports and economic growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u134	Reform is with Iron Rodrigues!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u135	Portugal has travelled a long way, aimed at correcting a delay of decades in the formation of Portuguese. Our convergence needs go far beyond the per capita GDP indicators. It was with the construction of the social state, starting on 25 April, that this embarrassment began to be corrected. Mrs. Members in 1978 only 81,500 students attended higher education. Today, data of 2021, we have in higher education more than 412 000 students attending their training option in Portugal. It is this set of tools that will transform the country, that is transforming the country and that will cause the Portuguese economy, progressively, to have more value added, more productivity, better wages, more opportunities, more social elevators built for each Portuguese. [[CH's laughs.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly those at my right hand, our problem is not the social elevator that doesn't work, it works, we have many more Portuguese people today who can and do want to climb that elevator.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u136	But it's got to be the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u137	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will therefore approve this State budget, knowing that it is the budget that best responds to the challenges of the Portuguese economy and ambitions, that it will put them safe at difficult times and that it will do so together with everyone. That's the mandate we have. We won't fail the Portuguese. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u138	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before speaking to the last speaker, I would like to record and greet on behalf of all the Members. Members, the presence of a delegation from the Ministry of Relations with the Parliament of Algeria, headed by its Secretary-General, Samir Lahouel, visiting our Parliament and present in the galleries. I also want to ask the services to open the quorum verification period. To close the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today, precisely seven months ago, the oppositions united in this Parliament to bring the proposal of the State budget to 2022, thus opening up a political crisis at the worst possible time and inflicting heavy consequences on the country and the Portuguese. With a pandemic not yet completely overcome, in the face of an economic recovery that was important to support and not compromise, with clear evidence of increased inflation and on the eve of Ukraine's invasion, an event of profound humanitarian, social, political and economic consequences, the country was left without Budget and without Government. It was a waste of time. Months of stopping, postponement and slowing down of action, months without the appropriate tools to deal with the difficulties, months with the diminished public administration of the means and direction to act, months without any decision in critical areas. Time lost for pensioners, who did not see the increased increase in pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u140	Because you didn't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u141	... lost time for young people, lost time for businesses, lost time for middle class families. On 31 January, four months ago, the Portuguese resolved, clearly, the political crisis, giving the country a solid, coherent and stable majority, with a clear mandate to continue, with balance, openness and responsibility, the recovery and modernization of the country. Today, this Parliament will close the last chapter of an unnecessary and harmful political crisis; today, this Parliament will approve the budget that the country urgently needs; today, we will regain stability and normalcy in the functioning of the State; and today we will start a new phase of governance, a phase in implementing modernizing and transforming reforms in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's time to get back the wasted time. It's time to trust. It's time to keep moving. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is the day when the full support for the economy, families and businesses and the response to the energy shock and inflation, external shocks, originating in the pandemic and in the war, for which the Portuguese have contributed nothing, but which we will collectively have to deal with. With this budget, we attack the effects of inflation as they must be tackled, with measures to mitigate price increases and with measures to support the incomes of the most vulnerable and affected. It is because of this government that all companies and families benefit from very important support to reduce the rise in fuel prices: minus 28 cents per litre of gasoline and minus 30 cents per litre of gasoline is how much families and businesses are saving by government action, that this budget is viable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this Budget, we continue to strengthen the incomes of those who need the most: about 2, 3 million pensioners will benefit from an extraordinary increase in their pension and will already receive the retroactives in July; more than 170 000 low-income family aggregates will no longer pay IRS for the minimum of existence; more than 1, 5 million middle-class families will pay less IRS due to the collapse of steps; all this will be added to the 6 % increase in the minimum wage, which has been in force since the beginning of the year. With this Budget, young people and families with children will pay less taxes and will be more supported, benefiting from the expansion of IRS Youth, the guarantee package for childhood, free daycare or the extension of deduction to the second child. With this Budget, employees of the Public Administration, who will have access, like all Portuguese, to support and tax reductions, will see the salary mass increase 2, 5 %, between wage updates, progressions and promotions. With this budget, companies benefit from the mobilisation of EUR 3500 million, between subsidies to contain energy prices, direct support and instruments to support capitalisation and investment. With this budget, we will pursue, in a determined way, the path to reducing deficit and public debt. in an era of increasing uncertainty in external markets the best answer to protect the country is to strengthen the financial credibility that we have so hard to conquer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The aim is to protect the conditions for financing the Republic and, above all, the conditions for financing Portuguese businesses and families. With this Budget, we affirm the objective of removing Portugal from the podium of the countries with the highest debt in the euro area, because it will, as everyone realize, be a great achievement for our future well-being. In summary, this is the Budget that responds to the country's needs. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The adoption of the budget confirms that, in the search for the best solutions, the majority are able to maintain a position of dialogue and cooperation. First, we kept the agreements to the left in full, because the solutions found remain relevant and because, unlike some, we did not deny or devalue the course made in the previous legislatures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the Budget is better off from this House with the approval of more than one hundred amendments, most of which are submitted by the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u142	That's true there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u143	With the Free, we have advanced in new models of organization of work, in the expansion of unemployment allowance to victims of domestic violence or in the policies of comfort and energy efficiency in housing. With the NAP, we honour past commitments and respond to more than 40 initiatives on a nature and animal protection agenda and a paradigm of sustainable development. It was recognized the importance of the Liberal Initiative proposal, which allows for early approval of scholarships in the first year of higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u144	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u145	We also accepted the merit of the PSD proposal, which will facilitate the recruitment of foreign workers for our companies. We also address important issues raised by the authorities and regional autonomy. With this budget, it will be possible to strengthen the ongoing process of decentralization, provide additional flexibility in budgetary management, resolve chronic problems in the water sectors. With this Budget, important issues are advanced for regional autonomy, such as the status of Madeira's free zone or the requalification of Horta Airport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All those who wanted to dialogue found an open door.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u146	Almost everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u147	We promise that we will be a majority of dialogue. We are a majority of dialogue! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u148	With some!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The national economy has revealed undeniable dynamism. With an increase of 11, 9 % of economic activity paragraph 1. this year's quarter, it's the one that grew the most out of European countries. The turnover of services and industry increased by 1. the trimester, and the entrepreneurs remain confident, despite uncertainty, as the latest data from the economic climate show. Tourism, for its part, recovers. In March, on average, more 59 000 people landed every day at national airports. This value is eight times higher than in the same period last year and is increasingly approaching the pre-pandamy levels. The unemployment rate is 5, 9 %, already clearly below pre-pandamia values — in fact, it is even historically low and is lower than the European average.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u150	What about the young job?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u151	And this doesn't happen because there are more people going into inactivity. No, the inactive population is decreasing and it is even the most dynamic labour market and creating more opportunities. No. 1. this year, Portugal counted 4, 9 million jobs, plus 600 000 jobs in seven years of Socialist Party governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The good performance of the Portuguese economy is visible to all. The European Commission trusts Portugal and has reviewed its growth projections for this year, contrary to what it has done for the euro area average. The International Monetary Fund is also now looking forward to more dynamism in our economy. And on the side of who is more sensitive to debt markets, the feeling of confidence in Portugal is shared. The Fitch financial rating agency has recently improved the outlook on Portuguese public debt. These advances must be collectively valued, mobilising all for the opportunities created by the new international framework emerging from the pandemic and war. Today we are witnessing the slowing, or even the backwardness, of the globalization process that has marked the last decades. Smaller and less complex distribution and production chains are anticipated in trade and, in general, a reduction in external dependence. Furthermore, policies for strengthening European strategic autonomy, even at the cost of some efficiency and cost reduction, are already gaining weight, particularly in energy and food, but also in the production of essential goods in industry. We should be able to take advantage of the possibilities of reindustrialisation and acceleration in the energy transition that the new context puts in place and I am sure that, together with the economic agents, we will be able to do so. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the approval of the Budget, a new cycle is opened in the action of the Government, a new cycle in the construction of a robust, sustainable and just economy, with a strong and modern social state, a new cycle based on the reforms needed to meet the country's effective problems. I would like to highlight four priority areas that will deserve very soon developments: we will move forward in promoting the Dignified Work Agenda, reducing inequalities; we will move forward in international mobility of workers, with a view to completing labour shortages in our economy; we will move forward in simplifying licensing, reducing context costs; we will move forward in the construction of our social state, with the approval of the new Statute of the National Health Service. On the Dignified Work Agenda, we will soon implement the extension of contract termination compensation, strengthen the fight against precariousness, implement measures to strengthen collective bargaining. In this way, we will continue to value work and to reduce inequalities, to stimulate productivity and reconciliation between personal, professional and family life, all of which are framed by a process of enhanced collective bargaining, faster and more effective. on a second front, we will respond to the business needs of companies. in the context of almost full employment, alerts are multiplied for lack of labour. The signing and entry into force on 1 January of the Agreement on Mobility between the Member States of the CPLP (Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries) is not only a very significant milestone in the relationship between the community of Portuguese-speaking countries but also a great opportunity to respond to the needs of many companies. As the Government has assumed, we will adopt the necessary amendments to our legislative framework as early as June, and we will begin the discussion of the bilateral agreements which will allow the full implementation of this agreement. In addition, the regulation of new agreements for the promotion of mobility with Morocco and India is in the advanced stage and are at various stages of negotiation agreements with countries such as Tunisia, Moldova, Uzbekistan, Georgia or the Philippines. Portugal has been a country of emigrants for many years, and today it is clear that we will also have to win in receiving more immigrants in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u152	Let them come to work, no allowance!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years, with the various generations of the Simplex Programme, we have made significant progress in the elimination of unnecessary administrative acts, including licences and authorisations. This is a continuous process, a fundamental race, an approach that requires constant renewal to meet the needs of citizens and businesses. That is why we included in the Recovery and Resilience Plan a number of initiatives aimed at facilitating the business environment and economic growth, particularly at the level of barriers imposed by sectoral licensing and other bureaucratic procedures. The next few weeks will be implemented, in several areas, logics of tacit deviations, exemptions from environmental impact assessments for certain works, replacement of authorisations of use by mere previous communications, replacement of previous requirements by conditional authorisations, without physical displacements to public entities, or exemptions from the need to obtain licences for the exercise of certain activities, where this is not justified. In short, we will lower context costs, strengthen competitiveness and competition and make our economy more attractive to national and external investment. at the same time, we will free public resources that will enable us to improve services to the community and businesses. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we close the last chapter of the political crisis and resume the regular governance process in Portugal, with a stable government, cohesive and focused on long-term priorities. Today, we approve a Budget that responds to the needs of families and businesses in the face of the challenges of a complex external context. Today, we strengthen our commitment to continue to affirm Portugal's budgetary credibility in the external markets and, most important, in each company and family. Today, we have started a new cycle, with reforms that dignified work, which promote relations with friendly countries, going to meet the needs of our companies and which make decisive progress in simplifying economic activity. Today, we also advance in the construction of a stronger social state, with the approval of the Statute of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Today, we embrace new commitments, with humility, with determination and with confidence and with the same objective as always: serving Portugal, serving the Portuguese. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u154	The debate on the proposal for a law approving the State budget for 2022 is thus closed. We shall proceed to the vote. I ask the services to advertise the result of the verification of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] We have registered 223 Members, which is why we have quorum. I confirm that all of you are. Members were able to register. We are therefore in a position to vote on Bill No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PS, CH, IL, the PCP and BE and abstentions from the PAN, L and the Members of the PSD Patrícia Dantas, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques.]] [[PS applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the House will continue with the vote. We say goodbye to the government, wishing good work. [[Pause.]] We are now going to proceed with a number of deliberations, all of which have an impact on votes of regret, and I would therefore ask the Government and the House to create the conditions for silence that are not only indispensable, as necessary, because of the moment. The first draft vote in appreciation is the Vote Project No 49 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP and subscribed by a PS Member ) — Despite the loss of human lives caused by the tragic accident at Hotel Saratoga in Cuba. I ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last May 6th, an accident with gas supply caused a violent explosion at Hotel Saratoga, one of the most charismatic hotels in the historic centre of Havana, located near the Capitólio, headquarters of the Cuban National Assembly. This explosion has so far caused 43 fatalities, as well as about a hundred wounded. Most of the victims are employees of the hotel itself. In addition to this tragic balance in human losses, the explosion caused enormous loss of wealth, not only in the damaged building, but involving other historic buildings of the city of Havana. In the face of this tragic event, the Assembly of the Republic, on behalf of the ties of friendship and cooperation that unite the parliaments and peoples of Portugal and Cuba, expresses its solidarity with the National Assembly of Cuba and through it the people and other authorities of Cuba, and expresses its regret at the loss of human lives caused by this tragic accident. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u156	We shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We began to appreciate the Vote Project No. 50 / XV / 1. a (as presented by CH) — Regret for the death of Marta Louro, journalist of the Correio da Manhã and CMTV. To read it, I give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last April 27th, the victim of an accident in Lisbon, when travelling on a report, Marta Louro, journalist of the Corridor of Manhã and CMTV, did not resist the injuries caused by the crash of the motorcycle on which he continued on a car on the north-south axis, eventually dying. Marta Louro, a former student of the Communication Sciences course at the Autonomous University of Lisbon, was, after his departure, described in the most diverse media, quoting former colleagues, as one of the most applied students during his academic journey and as a dedicated and exemplary professional, by his workmates and employer. He described himself on the social network LinkedIn, as ‘a girl who had the dream of going to the moon, a teenager who wanted to be military, a journalist’. He achieved it with all the dynamics and training, a circumstance that, coupled with such an early death, only contributes even more to accentuate the dimension of his loss. The Assembly of the Republic thus expresses its deepest regret over the death of Marta Louro, addressing his family, friends and colleagues his deepest and most appalled condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the appraisal of the Vote Project No 56 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — regretting the death of José Emilio Vieira de Campos Coroa. With the agreement of all parties, the draft vote will be read by Mr Pedro Coimbra of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u159	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is with a feeling of deep regret that we note the death of José Emilio Vieira de Campos Coroa, so I read the draft vote, which is of the following content: « Born in Coimbra, in 1954, Campos Coroa graduated in Medicine from the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Coimbra and removed the specialty of Ophthalmology, exercising clinical at various locations of the region. Man of great causes, militant of the Socialist Party, Democrat and Republican, the great love of his life was the Academic Association of Coimbra, to whom he gave an unlimited passion with a total dedication. Your connection to academic sports began as a doctor. He was then President of the Directorate of the Andebol Section of the Association of the Academy of Coimbra and later Chairman of his autonomous body of football from October 1995 to December 2002 and was linked to two high times: those raised to the first division in the periods 1996 / 1997 and 2001 / 2002. The death of the doctor of the ‘white tie’, who used in honor of his father, was a harsh blow in the romantic mystics that involved and always involved the Academy, to whom he surrendered from soul and heart, leaving a great legacy for the institution, but also for Coimbra and its region. The gift of an unequal charism, a sense of a clear sense of humor, of fine intelligence, of leadership capacity and of affable and well-willed treatment, infected all those with whom he deprived. With a huge heart, it was easy to be his friend and make them wherever he went. Campos Coroa was and will continue to be one of the great symbols of the Academy of Black Layers, where he was a doctor, but where he was noted as the leader. Its human dimension was also recognized as a remarkable doctor. Campos Coroa has long maintained a position of great solidarity, of rare loyalty and of exemplary civicism that will allow him to always remember as a great man for all those who deprived him. Briosa will continue to rely on your support when there is a game. Meeting in plenary session, the members of the Assembly of the Republic express to their family — the present party — the friends of Campos Coroa, the Academic Association of Coimbra, as well as the Socialist Party, the greatest sense of regret over their death. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u160	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote which has just been read out. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the relatives of José Emilio Vieira de Campos Coroa here present and expressed, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, our condolences. We will now appreciate the Vote Project No 62 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — I regret the death of Victor Manuel Cardoso Ramos. To read it, with the agreement of all parties, Mr Carlos Cação has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The especially tragic and premature circumstance as Victor Manuel Cardoso Ramos left us on May 12th, generated in us an intense feeling of anguish, pain and profound dismay. Born on October 30, 1974, Victor Ramos was successively elected President of the Board of Freguesia of Turiz, since September 2013. As an entrepreneur and as an author he was assumed to be a man of causes, endowed with an entrepreneurial position, but also a self-sufficient one, who since very early devoted himself to the public cause and, in a very special way, to his parish of Turiz and to the Town Hall of Vila Verde. Known for his easy smile, for his solidarity, generosity and altruism, Victor Ramos left the parish of Turiz and the municipality of Vila Verde poorer, because, as he asked to emphasize His Excellency Mr. President of the Republic, Prof. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, it was "an extemporaneous departure of a author dedicated to his land and who still had so much to give to the community". Thus, recognizing the exceptional charism of his journey and taking his legacy as an example of civic participation and surrender to the public cause, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to Victor Manuel Cardoso Ramos, presenting the most heartfelt condolences to his wife and son, as well as to the other family members and friends in mourning. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I also welcome the families of Victor Ramos here present, as well as the President of the City Council of Vila Verde and all the councillors and presidents of Vila Verde here present. We turn to the evaluation of the Vote Project No 70 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — regretting the death of Elisa Damião, an old colleague. To read this draft vote, Mr Sérgio Monte, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last May 7, 2022, at the age of 75, Elisa Maria Ramos Damião. At the time of its disappearance, it leaves an intense legacy of political activity and life dedicated to trade unionism in Portugal, one of the most important paths of the late twentieth century and the beginning of the 21st century. Birthal alcobacy, convinced republican, began political life in the clandestine state, still in the New State, having participated in various left-wing movements, fighting for the improvement of the living conditions of those who preceded on 25 April. along its civic path, much contributed to the foundation and implementation of the free and democratic union movement. His dedication to the causes of the workers began as head of the Trade Union of the Professionals of the Secretariat of the District of Setúbal, participating in the struggles of the Open Charter, being elected member of the Executive Secretariat of the UGT, where he took over the furrow of the Social Policies, dynamiizing the Department of Consumers. Along with comrades such as Alberto Antunes and Benjamim de Carvalho, among others, early joined the Socialist Party, in which he served as leader. She was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic between 1987 and 1999, elected by the electoral circles of Lisbon, Leiria and Braga, and chaired the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. In the Assembly of the Republic, it became known by the aggressive and frontal form as defending the social causes, which it deserved respect and consideration not only of those who fought in the Socialist Party, but also of all those who recognized the coherence of the struggles it was working on, which was a permanent value for the causes it embraced. As a Member of the European Parliament, where he served between 1998 and 2004, he distinguished himself from his activity in the Socialist Group, where he continued to beat, intransigently, the social causes. He was also a member of the Board of Directors of the European Foundation for Quality of Life, publishing several articles on social issues. Elisa Damião was an unforgettable example of women, mother, political, professional, free-thinking and citizen of the world, losing the Socialist Party and the country a unique activist, of great dedication to the public cause. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Elisa Damião and conveys the deepest condolences to its family and friends and the Socialist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u164	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the House to associate itself with one minute of silence in honor of all our fellow citizens. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I need more than five minutes of your attention, firstly, to communicate the results of the electoral acts that have taken place today, to different external bodies. To inform the House of the results obtained, Mrs Palmira Maciel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the election of President of the National Council for Education, the result was as follows: they voted 218 Members, with 158 votes in favour, 45 white votes and 15 null votes. in these terms, the candidate Domingos Manuel Barros Fernandes is considered elected. As regards the election to the General Council of the Centre for Judicial Studies, the following result was found: 218 Members voted, with 164 votes in favour, 41 white votes and 13 null votes. in these terms, they consider themselves elected as effective members, the candidates Mark Andrew Bobela Mota Kirkby ( PS ) and Sandra Cristina Farinha Abrantes Passines Videira ( PSD ) and, as alternate members, the candidates Carlos Carranho Proença ( PS ) and António Carlos Lopes de Moura Portugal ( PSD ). With regard to the election to the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board, the result was the following: 218 Members voted, with 164 votes in favour, 40 white votes and 14 null votes. in these terms, the following candidates are elected: Maria João da Silva Baila Madeira Antunes ( PS ), Eduardo Alexandre Ribeiro Gonçalves Teixeira ( PSD ) and Inês Dias Lamego ( PS ). With regard to the election to the State Secret Supervisory Authority, the result was that 218 Members were voted, with 154 votes in favour, 50 white votes and 14 null votes. in these terms, the following candidates are elected: Fernando d' Oliveira Neves ( PS ), José Luís Pinto Machado Ramalho ( PSD ) and Pedro Filipe Mota Delgado Simões Alves ( PS ). As for the election to the Supervisory Board of the Integrated Criminal Information System, the result was the following: 218 Members voted, and 169 votes were recorded in favour, 39 white votes and 10 null votes. in these terms, candidates Ana Rita Amaral Campos Gil and Francisco José Pereira de Oliveira are declared elected. As regards the election to the Pedagogic Council of the Centre for Judicial Studies, the result was the following: 218 Members voted, with 168 votes in favour, 39 white votes and 11 null votes. in these terms, the candidate Rui Manuel Tavares Lancier and, as alternate member, the candidate Rita de Brito Gião Hasnek is declared to be an effective member. Finally, with regard to the election for the Committee on the Monitoring of Educational Centres, the result was that 218 Members were voted and 164 votes in favour, 42 white votes and 12 null votes were recorded. in these terms, the candidates Maria do Rosário Lopes Amaro da Costa da Luz Carneiro ( PS ) and Maria Paula da Graça Cardoso ( PSD ) are declared elected.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u166	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me congratulate the entire House on the speedy and successful way in which all the elections have been held. Mrs Palmira Maciel will now indicate which of our colleagues have attended this plenary session remotely and also read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have attended the plenary session by videoconferencing. Mr André Pinotes Batista, PS, Francisco Dinis, PS, Maria da Luz Rosinha, PS, and Francisco Pimentel, PSD. I am also communicating to the House that you are. Members of the Liberal Initiative Bernardo Blanco, Carla Castro, Carlos Guimarães Pinto, Joana Cordeiro, João Cotrim Figueiredo, Patrícia Gilvaz, Rodrigo Saraiva and Rui Rocha request the withdrawal of their Regiment Project No. 2 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Return of the 15-year debates with the Prime Minister in the Assembly of the Republic ( first amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2020 of 31 August ). I would also like to inform you that you have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Resolution Projects Nos 63 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 4. the Commission, and 64 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission. I mean, then, Law Projects Nos 97 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 98 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission. The Proposal for a Law No 10 / XV / 1 was added to the Bureau. a ( ALRAM ), which falls to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-27.u168	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will take place on 1 June, Wednesday, for 3 p.m., on the agenda, in the first item, the urgent debate required by the Arrival on the guarantee of rights and freedoms in the reception and integration of Ukrainian refugees. of the second point is the discussion of Parliamentary Inquiry No 1 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible parliamentary inquiry into the work of the Portuguese State in establishing partnerships with Russian citizens'associations in the reception and integration of Ukrainian citizens in Portugal. On the third point, we will appreciate Bill No 6 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Electronic Communications Act and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1972, establishing the European Electronic Communications Code, together with Bill No 89 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the rights of end-users of electronic communications services. of the fourth point is the discussion of the Bill No 3 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure and Law No 5 / 2002 of 11 January 2002 together with the Lein Projects 86 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Corrects the legislation implementing the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2020 - 2024 and deepens the guarantees for the protection of the complainants, and 94 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Establishment of the status of the defendant's collaborator and aggravating the penalties applicable to the crimes of corruption provided for in the Criminal Code. At the fifth point, we will appreciate Petition No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( Ana Sofia Loureiro Marques ) — Legalization of prostitution in Portugal and / or decriminalization of lenocinium, provided it is not by coercion. Finally, from the sixth point, there is the discussion of Petition No 179 / XIV / 2. a ( Movement 8 %) — For an urgent investment in science in Portugal, in conjunction with Bills Nos 90 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Consecrates the duty of the institutions to initiate a competitive procedure for the functions performed by the doctors when the contract is terminated and 53 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures for the dynamisation of the National Scientific and Technological System, combating precariousness and underfinancing. Very good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 34 minutes.]]
